                       THE AEON OF CTHULHU RISING

                              By Tenebrous


      ``Nor is it to  be thought ... that man is either the oldest 
       or the last of earth's masters,  or than the common bulk of 
       life and substance walks alone.  The Old Ones were, the Old 
       Ones are,  and the Old Ones shall be.  Not in the spaces we 
       know,  but  between  them,  they  walk  serene  and primal, 
       undimensioned and to us unseen. Yog-Sothoth knows the gate. 
       Yog-Sothoth  is  the  gate.  Yog-Sothoth  is  the  key  and 
       guardian of the gate. Past, present, future, all are one in 
       Yog-Sothoth.  He knows where the  Old Ones broke through of 
       old, and when they shall break through again...''

                                H.P. Lovecraft, The Dunwich Horror 
                                      (as from the `Necronomicon')


 The century in which we live has  witnessed the dawning of a New Aeon; or
rather,  the return of energies  and  entities,  across vast gulfs of time 
and space,  from primal eras which  antedate by millenia the appearance of
humankind upon the Earth. In his pivotal Mythos tale, The Call of Cthulhu,
Lovecraft has  adumbrated  the first  portents  of this return,  the outer 
edges  of  whose  pericosis  with  our  own  continuum  is detected by the 
incredibly subtle and sensitive `antennae' of poets, writers and artists -
more especially  those  already  aligned  to  the concept of `outsideness'
through their own explorations of alien, exotic, bizarre and outre subject
matter.  And indeed,  it  is through the work of such artists in actuality
that the first hints and descriptions of  these  forces  and entities find
expression.

 This `new Aeon' is currently known  under a variety of names by differing
cults:  the astrological `Age of Aquarius';  the Thelemic `Aeon of Horus', 
inaugurated by the avatar Aiwaz,  in  1904  e.v.;  Frater Achad's `Aeon of 
Maat', the Era of Truth and Justice; and so on. To that particular body of
magicians, artists,  writers,  and other visionaries of the Cthulhu Mythos
which constitutes  The  Esoteric  Order  of  Dagon,  the  emerging  era is 
recognised as the Aeon of Cthulhu Rising,  with reference to the prophetic
fictional work of H.P. Lovecraft, as outlined above. As his description of 
the initial wave of Aeonic energy  (which  has  such drastic effect on the
dreams of `sensitive' individuals  around  the  world)  coincides with the
rising of the  island  of  R'lyeh  on  28  February  1925 e.v.,  the E.O.D
numerate this event this event as Year One, A.C.

 However,  before  the  complete  influx  of  these  elder forces into our 
present space-time continuum  can  be  facillated,  the  secret and primal
gateways must be located,  and  opened,  to allow access from `outside the
circles of time.' This gateway has been glyphed by Lovecraft as one of the
Great Old Ones themselves - ``the noxious Yog-Sothoth who froths as primal
slime in nuclear chaos beyond the nethermost  outpost of space and time.''
As Guardian of the Gate, he is synonymous with Choronzon. The ``nethermost
outpost'',  itself an opening or window to the dimensionality of the Great
Old Ones (Universe B), is the star Sothis, or Sirius.

 In turn, the gateway of the New Aeonic forces (Yog_Sothoth) is identified
with the `non-Sephiroth',  Daath,  on  the  qabalistic  Tree  of Life.  As 
Kenneth Grant explains:

      ``It is now possible to see the continous flow and evolution 
       of Aeons occuring simultaenously  and passing over into the
       world of anti-matter. The Yog (or Yug .. an aeon or age ..)
       of Sothoth is the counterpoint - as the Aeon of  Set-Thoth,
       or Daath - of its  Twin,  the  Yug-Hoor,  or Aeon of Horus. 
       Yog-Sothoth is  the  Gate  through  the  aeons to the Star-
       Source beyond Yuggoth, the Yug or Aeon of Goth.''

                               Outside the Circles of Time, p. 214


 The knowledge and formula  by  which  this  gateway  can  be reopened can 
therefore be only apprehended through the negative vortex of Daath. In the
case of Lovecraft  himself,  who  in  waking  life  vehemently  denied the
verdical nature of the material with which he was dealing,  the process of
appropriation was almost  completely  subconscious,  occuring  through the
medium of dream-experiences.  As would be expected, the visitation of such
unhuman  and  ultracosmic  revelations  took  the form of the most hideous 
nightmares.

 By the same token,  those initiates of the E.O.D. who are working towards
the Opening of the Gate of Yog-Sothoth must be  prepared to undertake this
most dangerous  descent  into  the  Abyss  of  Daath (the so-called `false 
knowledge') in order to activate these formulae effectively.  This process
involves  the  projection  of  a  part  of  themselves  into  those spaces 
`between',   to  which  Lovecraft  makes  repeated  reference,  and  which 
constitute the existentiality of the Old Ones themselves.  Is is here that
this `false knowlege' (glyphed as Lovecraft as the grimoire, Necronomicon)
can be found and retrieved, brought back through the vortex of Daath,  and
finally given actual, concrete manifestation in the Outer.

                                  -oOo-
Title: The Black Stone
Author: Robert E. Howard
* A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook *
eBook No.: 0601711.txt
Edition: 1
Language: English
Character set encoding: Latin-1(ISO-8859-1)--8 bit
Date first posted: June 2006
Date most recently updated: June 2006

This eBook was produced by: Richard Scott and Colin Choat

Project Gutenberg of Australia eBooks are created from printed editions
which are in the public domain in Australia, unless a copyright notice
is included. We do NOT keep any eBooks in compliance with a particular
paper edition.

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing this
file.

This eBook is made available at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg of Australia License which may be viewed online at
http://gutenberg.net.au/licence.html


To contact Project Gutenberg of Australia go to http://gutenberg.net.au

The Black Stone
Robert E. Howard



They say foul things of Old Tunes still lurk In dark forgotten corners
of the world, And Gates still gape to loose, on certain nights, Shapes
pent in Hell.--JUSTIN


I read of it first in the strange book of Von Junzt, the German
eccentric who lived so curiously mid died in such grisly and
mysterious fashion. It was my fortune to have access to his Nameless
Cults in the original edition, the so-called Black Book, published in
Dusseldorf in 1839, shortly before a hounding doom overtook the
author. Collectors of rare literature were familiar with Nameless
Cults mainly through the cheap and faulty translation which was
pirated in London by Bridewall in 1845, and the carefully expurgated
edition put out by the Golden Goblin Press of New York, 1909. But the
volume I stumbled upon was one of the unexpurgated German copies, with
heavy leather covers arid rusty iron hasps. I doubt if there are more
than half a dozen such volumes in the entire world today, for the
quantity issued leas not great, and when the manner of the author's
demise was bruited about, many possessors of the book burned their
volumes in panic.

Von Junzt spent his entire fife (1795-1840) delving into forbidden
subjects; lie traveled in all parts of the world, gained entrance into
innumerable secret societies, and read countless little-known and
esoteric books and manuscripts in the original; and in the chapters of
the Black Book, which range from startling clarity of exposition to
murky ambiguity, there are statements and hints to freeze the blood of
a thinking man. Reading what Von Junzt dared put in print arouses
uneasy speculations as to what it was that he dared not tell. What
dark matters, for instance, were contained in those closely written
pages that formed the unpublished manuscript on which he worked
unceasingly for months before his death, and which lay torn and
scattered all over the floor of the locked and bolted chamber in which
Von Junzt was found dead with the marks of taloned fingers on his
throat? It will never be known, for the author's closest friend, the
Frenchman Alexis Ladeau, after having spent a whole night piecing the
fragments together and reading what was written, burnt them to ashes
and cut his own throat with a razor.

But the contents of the published matter are shudder-some enough, even
if one accepts the general view that they but represent the ravings of
a madman. There among many strange things I found mention of the Black
Stone, that curious, sinister monolith that broods among the mountains
of Hungary, and about which so many dark legends cluster. Van Junzt
did not devote much space to it-the bulk of his grim work concerns
cults and objects of dark worship which he maintained existed in his
day, and it would seem that the Black Stone represents some order or
being lost and for-otters centuries ago. But he spoke of it as one of
the keys-a phrase used many times by him, in various relations, and
constituting one of the obscurities of his work. And he hinted briefly
at curious sights to be seen about the monolith on midsummer's night.
He mentioned Otto Dostmann's theory that this monolith was a remnant
of the Hunnish invasion and had been erected to commemorate a victory
of Attila over the Goths. Von Junzt contradicted this assertion
without giving any refutory facts, merely remarking that to attribute
the origin of the Black Stone to the Huns was as logical as assuming
that William the Conqueror reared Stonehenge.

This implication of enormous antiquity piqued my interest immensely
and after some difficulty I succeeded in locating a rat-eaten and
moldering copy of Dostmann's Remnants of Lost Empires (Berlin, 1809,
Der Drachenhaus Press). I was disappointed to find that Dostmann
referred to the Black Stone even more briefly than had Von Junzt,
dismissing it with a few lines as an artifact comparatively modern in
contrast with the Greco-Roman ruins of Asia Minor, which were his pet
theme. He admitted inability to make out the defaced characters on the
monolith but pronounced them unmistakably Mongoloid. However, little
as I learned from Dostmann, he did mention the name of the village
adjacent to the Black Stone-Stregoicavar-an ominous naive, meaning
something like Witch-Town.

A close scrutiny of guidebooks and travel articles give me no further
information-Stregoicavar, not on any map that I could find, lay in a
wild, little-frequented region, out of the path of casual tourists.
But I did find subject for thought in Dornly's Magyar Folklore. In his
chapter on Dream Myths he mentions the Black Stone and tells of some
curious superstitions regarding it-especially the belief that if
anyone sleeps in the vicinity of the monolith, that person will be
haunted by monstrous nightmares for ever after; and lie cited tales of
the peasants regarding too-curious people, who ventured to visit the
Stone on Midsummer Night and who died raving mad because of something
they saw there.

That was all I could gleam from Dornly, but my interest was even more
intensely roused as I sensed a distinctly sinister aura about the
Stone. The suggestion of dark antiquity, the recurrent hint of
unnatural events on Midsummer Night, touched some slumbering instinct
in my being, as one senses, rather than hears, the flowing of some
dark subterraneous river in the night.

And I suddenly saw a connection between this Stone and a certain weird
and fantastic poem written by the mad poet, Justin Geoffrey: The
People of the Monolith. Inquiries led to the information that Geoffrey
had indeed written that poem while traveling in Hungary, and I could
not doubt that the Black Stone was the very monolith to which lie
referred in his strange verse. Reading his stanzas again, I felt once
more the strange dim stirrings of subconscious promptings that I had
noticed when first reading of the Stone.

I had been casting about for a place to spend short vacation and I
made up my mind. I went to Stregoicavar. A train of obsolete style
carried me from Temesvar to within striking distance, at least, of my
objective, and a three days' ride in a jouncing coach brought me to
the little village which lay in a fertile valley--high up in the fir-
clad mountains.

The journey itself was uneventful, but during the first day we passed
the old battlefield of Schomvaal where the brave Polish-Hungarian
knight, Count Boris Vladinoff, made his gallant and futile stand
against the victorious hosts of Suleiman the magnificent, when the
Grand Turk swept over eastern Europe in 1526.

The driver of the coach pointed out to me a great heap of crumbling
stones on a hill nearby, under which, he said, the bones of the brave
Count lay. I remembered a passage from Larson's Turkish Wars. "After
the skirmish" (in which the Count with his small army had beaten back
the Turkish advance-guard) "the Count was standing beneath the half-
ruined walls of the old castle on the hill, giving orders as to the
disposition of his forces, when an aide brought to him a small
lacquered case which had been taken from the body of the famous
Turkish scribe and historian, Selim Bahadur, who had fallen in the
fight. The Count took therefrom a roll of parchment and began to read,
but he had not read far before he turned very, pale and without saying
a word, replaced the parchment in the case and thrust the case into
his cloak. At that very instant a hidden Turkish battery suddenly
opened fire, and the balls striking the old castle, the Hungarians
were horrified to see the halls crash down in ruin, completely
covering the brave Count. Without a leader the gallant little army was
cut to pieces, and in the warswept years which followed, the bones of
the noblemen were never recovered. Today the natives point out a huge
and moldering pile of rains near Schomvaal beneath which, they say,
still rests all that the centuries have left of Count Boris
Vladinolf."

I found the village of Stregoicavar a dreamy, drowsy little village
that apparently belied its sinister cognomen-a forgotten back-eddy
that Progress had passed by. The quaint houses and the quainter dress
and manners-of the people were those of an earlier century. They were
friendly, mildly curious but not inquisitive, though visitors from the
outside world were extremely rare.

"Ten years ago another American came here and stayed a few days in the
villa. Aye," said the owner of the tavern where I had put up, "a young
fellow and queer-acting-mumbled to himself-a poet, I think."

I knew he must mean Justin Geoffrey.

"Yes, he was a poet," I answered, "and he wrote a poem about a bit of
scenery near this very village."

"Indeed'-" Mine host's interest was aroused. "Then, since all great
poets are strange in their speech and actions, he must have achieved
great fame, for his actions and conversations were the strangest of
any man I ever knew."

"As is usual with artists," I answered, "most of his recognition has
come since his death."

"He is dead, then?"

"He died screaming in a madhouse five years ago." "Too bad, too bad,"
sighed mine host sympathetically. "Poor lad-he looked too long at the
Black Stone."

My heart gave a leap, but I masked my keen interest and said casually.
"I have heard something of this Black Stone; somewhere near this
village, is it not?"

"Nearer than Christian folk wish," he responded. "Look!" He drew me to
a latticed window and pointed up at the fir-clad slopes of the
brooding blue mountains. "There beyond where you see the bare face of
that jutting cliff stands that accursed Stone. Would that it were
ground to powder and the powder flung into the Danube to be carried to
the deepest ocean! Once men tried to destroy the thing, but each man
who laid hammer or maul against it came to an evil end."

"So now the people shun it."

"What is there so evil about it," I asked curiously. "It is a demon-
haunted thing," he answered uneasily and with the suggestion of a
shudder. "In my childhood I knew a young man who came up from below
and laughed at our traditions-in his foolhardiness he went to the
Stone on Midsummer Night and at dawn stumbled into the village again,
stricken dumb and mad. Something had shattered his brain and sealed
his lips, for until the day of his death, which came soon after, he
spoke only to utter terrible blasphemies or to slaver gibberish.

"My own nephew when very small was lost in the mountains and slept in
the woods near the Stone, and now in his manhood he is tortured by
foul dreams so that at times he makes the night hideous with his
screams and wakes with cold sweat upon him.

"But let us talk of something else, Herr; it is not good to dwell upon
such things."

I remarked on the evident age of the tavern and he answered with
pride. "The foundations are more than four hundred years old; the
original house was the only one in the village which was not burned to
the ground when Suleiman's devil swept through the mountains. Here, in
the house that then stood on these same foundations, it is said, the
scribe Selim Bahadur had his headquarters while ravaging the country
hereabouts."

I learned then that the present inhabitants of Stregoicavar are not
descendants of the people who dwelt there before the Turkish raid of
1526. The victorious Moslems left no living human in the village or
the vicinity, thereabouts when they passed over. Men, women and
children they wiped out in one red holocaust of murder, leaving a vast
stretch of country silent and utterly deserted. The present people of
Stregoicavar are descended from hardy settlers from the lower valleys
who came into the ruined village after the Turk was thrust back.

Mine host did not speak of the extermination of the original
inhabitants with any great resentment and I learned that his ancestors
in the lower levels had looked on the mountaineers with even more
hatred and aversion than they' regarded the Turks. He was rather vague
regarding the causes of this feud, but said that the original
inhabitants of Stregoicavar had been in the habit of makin; stealthy
raids on the lowlands and stealing girls and children. Moreover, he
said that they were not exactly of the same blood as his own people;
the sturdy, original Magyar-Slavic stock had mixed and intermarried
with a degraded aboriginal race until the breeds had blended; composed
was a dully gleaming black, whose surface, where it was not dinted and
roughened, created a curious illusion of semitransparency.

I spent most of the morning there and came away baffled. No connection
of the Stone with any other artifact in the world suggested itself to
me. It was as if the monolith had been reared by alien hands, in an
age distant and apart from human ken.

I returned to the village with my interest in no way abated. Now that
I had seen the curious thing, my desire was still more keenly whetted
to investigate the matter further and seek to learn by what strange
hands and for what strange purpose the Black Stone had been reared in
the long ago.

I sought out the tavernkeeper's nephew and questioned him in regard to
his dreams, but he was vague, though willing to oblige. He did not
mind discussing them, but was unable to describe them with any
clarity. Though he dreamed the same dreams repeatedly, and though they
were hideously vivid at the time, they left no distinct impression on
his waking mind. He remembered them only as chaotic nightmares through
which huge whirling fires shot lurid tongues of flames and a black
drum bellowed incessantly. One thing only he had seen the Black Stone,
not on a mountain slope but set like a spire on a colossal black
castle.

As for the rest of the villagers I found them not inclined to talk
about the Stone, with the exception of the schoolmaster, a man of
surprising education, who spent much more of his time out in the world
than any of the rest.

He was much interested in what I told him of Von Junzt's remarks about
the Stone, and warmly agreed with the German author in the alleged age
of the monolith. He believed that a coven had once existed in the
vicinity and that possibly all of the original villagers had been
members of that fertility cult which once threatened to undermine
European civilization and gave rise to the tales of witchcraft. He
cited the very name of the village to prove his point; it had not been
originally named Stregoicavar, he said; according to legends the
builders had called it Xuthltan, which was the aboriginal name of the
site on which the village had been built many centuries ago.

This fact roused again an indescribable feeling of uneasiness. The
barbarous name did not suggest connection with any Scythic, Slavic or
Mongolian race to which an aboriginal people of these mountains would,
under natural circumstances, have belonged.

That the Magyars and Slavs of the lower valleys believed the original
inhabitants of the village to be members of the witchcraft cult was
evident, the schoolmaster said, by the name they gave it, which name
continued to be used even after the older settlers had been massacred
by the Turks, and the village rebuilt by a cleaner and more wholesome
breed.

He did not believe that the members of the cult erected the monolith
but he did believe that they used it as a center of their activities,
and repeating vague legends which had been handed down since before
the Turkish invasion, he advanced the theory that the degenerate
villagers had used it as a sort of altar on which they offered human
sacrifices, using as victims the girls and babies stolen from his own
ancestors in the lower valleys.

He discounted the myths of weird events on Midsummer Night, as well as
a curious legend of a strange deity which the witch-people of Xuthltan
were said to have invoked with chants and wild rituals of flagellation
and slaughter.

He had never visited the Stone on Midsummer Night, he said, but he
would not fear to do so; whatever had existed or taken place there in
the past, had been long engulfed in the mists of time and oblivion.
The Black Stone had lost its meaning save as a link to a dead and
dusty past.

It was while returning from a visit with this schoolmaster one night
about a week after my arrival at Stregoicavar that a sudden
recollection struck me-it was Midsummer Night! The very time that the
legends linked with grisly implications to the Black Stone. I turned
away from the tavern and strode swiftly through the village.
Stregoicavar lay silent; the villagers retired early. I saw no one as
I passed rapidly out of the village and up into the firs which masked
the mountains slopes with whispering darkness. A broad silver moon
hung above the valley, flooding the crags and slopes in a weird light
and etching the shadows blackly. No wind blew through the firs, but a
mysterious, intangible rustling and whispering was abroad. Surely on
such nights in past centuries, my whimsical imagination told me, naked
witches on magic broomsticks had flown across the valley, pursued by
jeering demoniac familiars.

I came to the cliffs and was somewhat disquieted to note that the
illusive moonlight lent them a subtle appearance I had not noticed
before-in the weird light they appeared less like natural cliffs and
more like the ruins of cyclopean and Titan-reared battlements jutting
from the mountain-slope.

Shaking off this hallucination with difficulty I came upon the plateau
and hesitated a moment before I plunged into the brooding darkness of
the woods. A sort of breathless tenseness hung over the shadows, like
an unseen monster holding its breath lest it scare away its prey. I
shook off the sensation-a natural one, considering the eeriness of the
place and its evil reputation-and made my way through the wood,
experiencing a most unpleasant sensation that I was being followed,
and halting once, sure that something clammy and unstable had brushed
against my face in the darkness.

I came out into the glade and saw the tall monolith rearing its gaunt
height above the sward. At the edge of the woods on the side toward
the cliffs was a stone which formed a sort of natural seat. L sat
down, reflecting that it was probably while there that the mad poet,
Justin Geoffrey, had written his fantastic People of the Monolith.
Mine host thought that it was the Stone which had caused Geoffrey's
insanity, but the seeds of madness had been sown in the poet's brain
long before he ever came to Stregoicavar.

A glance at my watch showed that the hour of midnight was close at
hand. I leaned back, waiting whatever ghostly demonstration might
appear. A thin night wind started up among the branches of the firs,
with an uncanny suggestion of faint, unseen pipes whispering an eerie
and evil tune. The monotony of the sound and my steady gazing at the
monolith produced a sort of selfhypnosis upon me; I grew drowsy. I
fought this feeling, but sleep stole on me in spite of myself; the
monolith seemed to sway and dance, strangely distorted to my gaze, and
then I slept.

I opened my eyes and sought to rise, but lay still, as if an icy hand
gripped me helpless. Cold terror stole over me: The glade was no
longer deserted. It was thronged by a silent crowd of strange people,
and my distended eyes took in strange barbaric details of costume
which my reason told me were archaic and forgotten even in this
backward land. Surely, I thought, these are villagers who have come
here to hold some fantastic conclave-but another glance told me that
these people were not the folk of Stregoicavar. They were a shorter,
more squat race, whose brows were lower, whose faces were broader and
duller. Some had Slavic or Magyar features, but those features were
degraded as from a mixture of some baser, alien strain I could not
classify. Many wore the hides of wild beasts, and their whole
appearance, both men and women, was one of sensual brutishness. They
terrified and repelled me, but they gave me no heed. They formed in a
vast half-circle in front of the monolith and began a sort of chant,
flinging their arms in unison and weaving their bodies rhythmically
from the waist upward. All eyes were fixed on the top of the Stone
which they seemed to be invoking. But the strangest of all was the
dimness of their voices; not fifty yards from me hundreds of men and
women were unmistakably lifting their voices in a wild chant, yet
those voices came to me as a faint indistinguishable murmur as if from
across vast leagues of Space-or time.

Before the monolith stood a sort of brazier from which a vile,
nauseous yellow smoke billowed upward, curling curiously in a swaying
spiral around the black shaft, like a vast unstable snake.

On one side of this brazier lay two figures-a young girt, stark naked
and bound hand and foot, and an infant, apparently only a few months
old. On the other side of the brazier squatted a hideous old hag with
a queer sort of black drum on her lap; this drum she beat with slow,
light blows of her open palms, but I could not hear the sound.

The rhythm of the swaying bodies grew faster and into the space
between the people and the monolith sprang a naked young woman, her
eyes blazing, her long black hair flying loose. Spinning dizzily on
her toes, she whirled across the open space and fell prostrate before
the Stone, where she lay motionless. The next instant a fantastic
figure followed her-a man from whose waist hung a goatskin, and whose
features were entirely hidden by a sort of mask made from a huge
wolf's head, so that he looked like a monstrous, nightmare being,
horribly compounded of elements both human and bestial. In his hand he
held a bunch of long fir switches bound together at the larger ends,
and the moonlight glinted on a chain of heavy gold looped about his
neck.

A smaller chain depending from it suggested a pendant of same sort,
but this was missing.

The people tossed their arms violently and seemed to redouble their
shouts as this grotesque creature loped across the open space with
many a fantastic leap and caper. Coming to the woman who lay before
the monolith, he began to lash her with the switches he bore, and she
leaped up and spun into the wild steps of the most incredible dance I
have ever seen. And her tormentor danced with her, keeping the wild
rhythm, matching her every shirl and bound, while incessantly raining
cruel blows on her naked body. And at every blow he shouted a single
word, over and over, and all the people shouted it back. I could see
the working of their lips, and now the faint far-off murmur of their
voices merged and blended into one distant shout, repeated over and
over with slobbering ecstasy. But what that one word was, I could not
make out.

In dizzy whirls spun the wild dancers, while the lookers-on, standing
still in their tracks, followed the rhythm of their dance with swaying
bodies and weaving arms. Madness grew in the eves of the capering
votaress and was reflected in the eyes of the watchers. Wilder and
more extravagant grew the whirling frenzy of that mad dance-it became
a bestial and obscene thing, while the old hag howled and battered the
drum like a crazy woman, and the switches cracked out a devil's tune.

Blood trickled down the dancer's limbs but she seemed not to feel the
lashing save as a stimulus for further enormities of outrageous
motion; bounding into the midst of the yellow smoke which now spread
out tenuous tentacles to embrace both flying figures, she seemed to
merge with that foul fog and veil herself with it. Then emerging into
plain view, closely followed by the beast-thing that flogged her, she
shot into an indescribable, explosive burst of dynamic mad motion, and
on the very crest of that mad wave, she dropped suddenly to the sward,
quivering and panting as if completely overcome by her frenzied
exertions. The lashing continued with unabated violence and intensity
and she began to wriggle toward the monolith on her belly: The
priest--or such I will call him--followed, lashing her unprotected
body with all the power of his arm as she writhed along, leaving a
heavy track of blood on the trampled earth. She reached the monolith,
and gasping and panting, flung both arms about it and covered the cold
stone with fierce hot kisses, as in frenzied and unholy adoration.'

The fantastic priest bounded high in the air, flinging away the red-
dabbled switches, and the worshippers, howling and foaming at the
mouths, turned on each other with tooth and nail, rendering one
another's garments and flesh in a blind passion of bestiality. The
priest swept up the infant with a long arm, and shouting again that
Name, whirled the wailing babe high in the air and dashed its brains
out against the monolith, leaving a ghastly stain on the black
surface: Cold with horror I saw him rip the tiny body open with his
bare brutish fingers and fling handfuls of blood on the shaft, then
toss the red and torn shape into the brazier, extinguishing flame and
smoke in a crimson rain, while the maddened brutes behind him howled
over and over the Name. Then suddenly they all fell prostrate,
writhing like snakes, while the priest flung wide his gory hands as in
triumph: I opened my mouth to scream my horror and loathing, but only
a dry rattle sounded; a huge monstrous toadlike thing squatted on the
top of the monolith!

I saw its bloated, repulsive and unstable outline against the
moonlight and set in what would have been the face of a natural
creature, its huge, blinking eyes which reflected all the lust,
abysmal greed, obscene cruelty and monstrous evil that has stalked the
sons of men since their ancestors mowed blind and hairless in the
tree-tops. In those grisly eyes were mirrored all the unholy things
and vile secrets that sleep in the cities under the sea, and that
skulk from the light of day in the blackness of primordial caverns.
And so that ghastly thing that the unhallowed ritual and sadism and
blood had evoked from the silence of the hills, leered and blinked
down on its bestial worshippers, who groveled in abhorrent abasement
before it.

Now the beast-masked priest lifted the bound and weakly writhing girl
in his brutish hands and held her up toward that horror on the
monolith. And as that monstrosity sucked in its breath, lustfully and
slobberingly, something snapped in my brain and I fell into a merciful
faint.

I opened my eyes on a still white dawn. All the events of the night
rushed back on me and I sprang up, then stared about me in amazement.
The monolith brooded gaunt and silent above the sward which waved,
green and untrampled, in the morning breeze. A few quick strides took
me across the glade; here had the dancers leaped and bounded until the
ground should have been trampled bare; and here had the votaress
wriggled her painful way to the Stone, streaming blood on the earth.
But no drop of crimson showed on the uncrushed sward. I looked,
shudderingly, at the side of the monolith against which the bestial
priest had brained the stolen baby-but no dark stain nor grisly clot
showed there.

A dream! It had been a wild nightmare-or else-I shrugged my shoulders.
What vivid clarity for a dream! I returned quietly to the village and
entered the inn without being seen. And there I sat meditating over
the strange events of the night. More and more was I. prone to discard
the dream-theory. That what I had seen was illusion and without
material substance, was evident. But I believed that I had looked on
the mirrored shadow of a deed perpetrated in ghastly actuality in
bygone days. But how was I to know? What proof to show that my vision
had been a gathering of foul specters rather than a nightmare
originating in my brain?

As if for answer a name flashed into my mind-Selim Bahadur! According
to legend this man, who had been a soldier as well as a scribe, had
commanded that part of Suleiman's army which had devastated
Stregoicavar; it seemed logical enough; and if so, he had gone
straight from the blotted-out countrvside to the bloody field of
Schomvaal, and his doom. I sprang up with a sudden shout-that
manuscript which was taken from the Turk's body, and which Count Boris
shuddered over-might it not contain some narration of what the
conquering Turks found in Stregoicavar? What else could have shaken
the iron nerves of the Polish adventurer? And since the bones of the
Count had never been recovered, what more certain than that the
lacquered case, with its mysterious contents, still lav hidden beneath
the ruins that covered Boris Vladinoff? I began packing my bag with
fierce haste.

Three days later found me esconced in a little village a few miles
from the old battlefield, and when the moon rose I was working with
savage intensity on the great pile of crumbling stone that crowned the
hill. It was back-breaking toil-looking back now I cannot see how I
accomplished it. I labored without a pause from moonrise to dawn as
the sun was coming up I tore aside the last tangle of stones and
looked on all that was mortal of Count Boris Vladinoff-only a few,
pitiful fragments of crumbling bone-and among them, crushed out of all
original shape, lay a case whose lacquered surface had kept it from
complete decay through the centuries.

I seized it with frenzied eagerness, and back in my tavern chamber I
opened the case and found the parchment comparatively intact; and
there was something else in the case-a small squat object wrapped in
silk. I was wild to plumb the secrets of those yellowed pages, but
weariness forbade me. Since leaving Stregoicavar I had hardly slept at
all, and the terrific exertions of the previous night combined to
overcome me. In spite of myself I was forced to stretch myself on my
bed, nor did I awake until sundown.

I snatched a hasty supper, and then in the light of a flickering
candle, I hasty supper, myself to read the near Turkish characters
that covered the parchment. It was difficult work, for I am not deeply
versed in the language and the archaic style of the narrative baffled
me. But as I toiled through it a word or a phrase here and there
leaped at me and a dimly growing horror shook me in its grip. I bent
my energies fiercely to the task, and as the tale grew clearer and
took more tangible form my blood chilled in my veins, my hair stood up
and my tongue clove to my mouth.

At last when gray dawn was stealing through the latticed window, I
laid down the manuscript and took up and unwrapped the thing in the
bit of silk. Staring at it with haggard eyes I knew the truth of the
matter was clinched, even had it been possible to doubt the veracity
of that terrible manuscript.

And I replaced both obscene things in the case, nor did I rest or
sleep or eat until that case containing them had been weighted with
stones and flung into the deepest current of the Danube which, God
grant, carried them back into the Hell from which they came.

It was no dream I dreamed on Midsummer Midnight in the hills above
Stregoicavar. Well for Justin Geoffrey that he tarried there only in
the sunlight and went his way, for had he gazed upon that ghastly
conclave, his mad brain would have snapped before it did. How my own
reason held, I do not know.

No--it was no dream-I gazed upon a foul rout of votaries long dead,
come up from Hell to worship as of old; ghosts that bowed before a
ghost. For Hell has long claimed their hideous god.

By what foul alchemy or godless sorcery the Gates of Hell are opened
on that one eery night T do not know, but mine own eyes have seen. And
I know I looked on no living thing that night, for the manuscript
written in the careful hand of Selim Bahadur narrated at length what
he and his raiders found in the valley of Stregoicavar; and I read,
set down in detail, the blasphemous obscenities that torture wrung
from the lips of screaming worshippers; and I read, too, of the lost,
grim black cavern high in the hills where the horrified Turks hemmed a
monstrous, bloated, wallowing toad-like being and slew it with flame
and ancient steel blessed in old times by Muhammad, and with
incantations that were old when Arabia was young. And even staunch old
Selim's hand shook as he recorded the cataclysmic, earth-shaking
death-howls of the monstrosity, which died not alone; for half-score
of his slayers perished with him, in ways that Selim would not or
could not describe.

And that squat idol carved of gold and wrapped in silk was an image of
himself, and Selim tore it from the golden chain that looped the neck
of the slain high priest of the mask.

Well that the Turks swept out that foul valley with torch and clean
steel! Such sights as those brooding mountains have looked on belong
to the darkness and abysses of lost eons. No-it is not fear of the
toad-thing that makes me shudder in the night. He is made fast in Hell
with his nauseous horde, freed only for an hour on the most weird
night of the year, as I have seen. And of his worshippers, none--
remains.

But it is the realization that such things once crouched beastlike
above the souls of men which brings cold sweat to my brow; and I fear
to peer again into the leaves of Von Junzt's abomination. For now I
understand his repeated phrase of keys!-aye! Keys to Outer Doors-links
with an abhorrent past and-who knows?-of abhorrent spheres of the
present. And I understand why the tavernkeeper's nightmare-haunted
nephew saw in his dream, the Black Stone like a spire on a cyclopean
black castle. If men ever excavate among those mountains they may find
incredible things below those masking slopes. For the cave wherein the
Turks trapped the-thing-was not truly a cavern, and I shudder to
contemplate the gigantic gulf of eons which must stretch between this
age and the time when the earth shook herself and reared up, like a
wave, those blue mountains that, rising, enveloped unthinkable things.
May no man ever seek to uproot that ghastly spire men call the Black
Stone!

A Key! Aye, it is a Key, symbol of a forgotten horror. That horror has
faded into the limbo from which it crawled, loathsomely, in the black
dawn of the earth. But what of the other fiendish possibilities hinted
at by Von Junzt-what of the monstrous hand which strangled out his
life? Since reading what Selim Bahadur wrote, I can no longer doubt
anything in the Black Book. Man was not always master of the earth-and
is he now? What nameless shapes may even now lurk in the dark places
of the world?



THE END


The Final Pronunciation 
by Bruce Turlish 
I want to make perfectly clear that I was not the driving force in all this; Harbison was, and Harbison is dead. 
Deservedly so, of course, dragged down and devoured by the monstrosities that he was so instrumental in unleashing. So that does diminish my culpability, doesn't it? Dear God, doesn't it? So please forgive me, mankind. Please forgive me for what I helped start, for this hell on earth. Iris, poor, sick, half-mad, breast cancer-ridden woman, can you forgive me also? If your soul still exists somewhere in the void, can you hear my plea and somehow extend forgiveness? Can't you? I mutilated you, I deformed you, I violated you, but you agreed to it, didn't you? Didn't you, you poor, sick woman, didn't you? 
For there is no upright judge in this world now who will hold me accountable for violating my Hippocratic oath, for abusing a patient, for all that I've done; the world is wrecked. I helped wreck it, so did Harbison, but it was Harbison who was the driving force. He manipulated us, he inveigled us into it, so that does lessen my guilt, doesn't it? Oh, Dear God, doesn't it? Doesn't it? 
The bare facts of the case are these. My name is Richard Upjohn. I was, when the world was still intact and functioning, a 37 year-old physician, a surgeon who specialized in plastic and reconstructive surgery. Although unmarried, I had achieved and acquired most of the things that denote material success in this earthly existence. I maintained a successful medical practice in a major city on the East Coast, and was considered by those who knew me, both professionally and personally, to be a respectable and well-adjusted member of society. 
One facet of my existence that may not have been considered typical of those with my status, however, was my interest in literature dealing with the supernatural and outre. The one author who I held in highest regard was H.P. Lovecraft, a writer with a tremendous cosmic vision of the universe, whose narratives were imbued with a profound sense of the horror that operates beneath the surface of a coldly indifferent universe. As is natural with those who have such intense interests, I became a member of a small group of people who had a similar interest in horror fiction and, most particularly, in Lovecraft. I want to say here that, at first, my interest in Lovecraft's fiction was limited to just deriving entertainment and intellectual stimulation from it; I did not seriously believe that Lovecraft's vision of the universe was anything more than a fictional artifice. 
Indeed, most of the other members of our group had a similarly rational mind-set. There was an exception, however: a plain, middle-aged woman named Iris. This woman, through some combination of personal eccentricity and emotional instability, had convinced herself that Lovecraft's writings were more than just fiction. She believed they were actual descriptions of terrible monstrosities that threatened mankind's existence--monstrosities that were not currently visible to us owing to the fact that they were somehow "sequestered away in another dimension," as she put it. Understandably, this woman had a number of other peculiar beliefs relating to astrology and various aspects of pseudo-science, but no one in the group felt threatened by her, and most tended to view her as just a harmless eccentric. 
What caused this situation to move in a more sinister direction was the appearance of a man named William Harbison, who found out about our group through a co-worker. Harbison was a scientific programmer who, after joining our group, distinguished himself almost immediately by the obvious intensity of his interest in Lovecraft's writings and also by the sheer force of his personality. As with our fellow group member, Iris, this man, whose appearance was in no way remarkable, held the conviction that Lovecraft was a visionary whose writings hinted at a reality that we were prevented from appreciating owing to humankind's sensory and constitutional limitations. 
What differentiated this man from Iris was the extreme persuasiveness of his arguments in support of his beliefs. Claiming that he had subjected the content of Lovecraft's writings to a rigorous scientific analysis, he implied that he had, as a first step in his analysis, resolved the confusion relating to the pronunciation of the exotic terminology that Lovecraft used in his writings, which to most readers appeared to be nothing more than a jumble of unpronounceable consonants. 
He argued further that any attempts to achieve an accurate pronunciation for Lovecraftian terminology would be frustrated by the fact that the human oral structure was not suitable for the sort of alien pronunciation that Lovecraft intended for his terminology. He finished the presentation of his findings by saying that, not only had he developed the proper phonetics for the terminology, but also concluded that the human mouth could be altered with some minor anatomical adjustments to achieve a correct pronunciation. In support of his theories, he presented a number of computer-generated graphics which he said visualized the necessary contours that the human mouth would have to have in order to produce the desired sounds. 
I must say that while listening to all this, I had doubts about the man's sanity. Yes, he argued his case with the utmost lucidity and coherence, but what he contended was almost pathologically bizarre, in my view. The other group members appeared to be similarly skeptical of Harbison's theories; they sat in stony silence during his presentation, with expressions of tight-lipped cynicism upon their faces. 
There was an exception, however: Iris. She appeared spell- bound during Harbison's presentation, and frequently interrupted the flow of his narrative with questions. One of the questions she asked related to the issue of whether these theories could be tested to determine their validity. Harbison understandably replied that any such testing would require, as a starting point, the participation of an experimental subject who would allow the necessary anatomical modifications to be made. 
After the group meeting concluded for the evening, I noticed with some feeling of uneasiness that Iris continued to be engrossed in a conversation with this man Harbison. It appeared she had found a kindred spirit who shared her convictions about the authenticity of the subject matter upon which Lovecraft based his stories. As the two of them left the meeting-room together, I felt an almost irrational compulsion to rush up to Harbison and demand that he leave our group at once, saying that it was not intended for fanatical people who held occult or delusional notions about Lovecraft. In retrospect, my failure to do this was the first missed opportunity to prevent catastrophe. 
The next development that played a pivotal role in this grotesque situation was Iris learning that she had breast cancer. About five months after Harbison had joined our group, I noticed that Iris seemed withdrawn and preoccupied; qualities which were not consistent with her normal behavior. When I observed her at our meetings, it appeared that her colloquies with Harbison had taken on a more serious, even grim character, if one were to judge by their demeanors. Moreover, I noticed that, on occasion, Iris would gesture in my direction while in the midst of a heated discussion with Harbison. 
I did not have long to wait to discover what was going on. I received a phone call from Iris at my home late one evening. In a distraught and tearful tone, Iris related the fact that she had been diagnosed with advanced breast cancer, and told by her physician that the prognosis was not good; she was told to realistically expect no more than six months of life. She continued on by saying that Harbison had revealed to her his conviction that I, as a plastic surgeon, had the ability to make the minor anatomical adjustments which he had expounded upon, if I could be persuaded to do so and if a suitable and willing subject could be found. 
She concluded by saying that, since she was destined to die very soon, she wanted to do something with the final days of her life which would gratify this tremendous fascination she felt about achieving a true and authentic pronunciation of Lovecraft's bizarre terminology. In short, she wanted me to perform on her the surgery which would allow her to be the first human being to correctly pronounce Lovecraft's terminology as it was meant to be pronounced. 
I was flabbergasted with the import of this torrent of words that Iris poured forth over the telephone. I told her that she was overwrought and confused, that Harbison had filled her head with a lot of fanatical and unscientific nonsense. These protestations of mine fell on deaf ears; Iris wanted me to perform this surgery which, as Harbison had assured her, was relatively minor and not likely to produce a profound disfiguration of her features. 
She blurted out also that she would very likely do away with herself if I didn't acquiesce to her demands. When she told me this, I realized that she could very well be serious, since I had seen enough of her behavior in the past to know that she was emotionally both unstable and impetuous. Since the hour was late, I told her that I would consider her proposal and give her a final answer after I had discussed the matter with Harbison. 
Early the next day, I called Harbison and told him in no uncertain terms that I considered it criminal that he had misled Iris with a bunch of nonsense. His reaction was cold and restrained; he said he happened to believe very seriously in the theories that he had expounded upon at our meeting, and that he was not responsible for the illness that now afflicted Iris nor for her emotional instability. He pointed out that, given the dire circumstances that Iris now found herself in, the most humane and reasonable thing would be to give in to her desires; he stressed that the surgery that he had described in his presentation would be only minimally disfiguring and very limited in scope. 
In spite of my growing detestation for the man and his crack- pot theories, I felt the need to question him about the extent and nature of the surgery he described. He replied that from his own clinical inquiries with some practitioners within the plastic surgery field, he had determined that a procedure to slightly thicken and protrude the upper lip, along with some reshaping of the tongue, was all that would be required. He reminded me that he had shown some graphics during his presentation that attested to the modest nature of the changes that would be effected by the surgery. I conceded that, from my recollection of what he had shown at the meeting, the anatomical changes did not appear to be that severe. I concluded the conversation and hung up the phone. 
What caused my decision to grant Iris' wish by agreeing to perform the surgery is not something that, to this day, I really understand. I like to think it was because I had a very profound conviction that Iris would, in fact, kill herself if I did not comply with her demands. At the time, I thought this would be the humane thing, the merciful and reasonable thing to do. Harbison's persuasive arguments made it easier to arrive at this conclusion, but I like to think it was altruism towards Iris that played the major role. This was another time that I could have prevented this whole nightmare by acting differently. But I didn't. The fact that I might have had Iris committed to a mental hospital for her own protection is now just a bitter, mocking speculation. Yes, I could have handled it all so differently. But I didn't. 
I contacted Iris and informed her that, despite my reservations, I had concluded that performing the requested surgery would be acceptable to me, once I had determined that her prognosis was as bleak as she had portrayed it. She agreed to the release of her medical records and, in fact, the situation was as she had described it: advanced breast cancer with metastasis and with no viable options for treatment indicated. I determined also at this time that Iris would be able to tolerate the minor surgical procedure that was planned, and that the surgery could be performed without appreciable risk as an outpatient procedure in my office. Understandably, I also had Iris sign a consent form for my own protection. 
Of the details of the surgery I will say little. Clinically, the surgery was without incident, nor was it particularly demanding from a technical standpoint. What stays in my memory, however, is how little I grasped, while performing the surgery, how alien the changes were that I was perpetrating upon Iris' features. The changes I made to her facial anatomy were subtle and limited in scope, but, as I was to see, the impact those changes had when viewed by others was considerable. 
Within two days of the surgery, Iris was well enough to attend a meeting of our Lovecraft group. Harbison would be there, and a demonstration of Iris' attempts to achieve a correct pronunciation of Lovecraftian terminology was to be given. Arriving early to the meeting in the company of Iris, whose lower face was still covered with surgical gauze, I had little inkling of the catastrophic events that were shortly to be set in motion. Harbison arrived a short time later, obviously pleased to again be able to expound upon his theories. 
Once all members of our group were present, Harbison strode to the front of the room and called the meeting to order. He announced, with obvious excitement, that those present would soon witness something remarkable and without parallel. Very much in command of the situation, he motioned Iris, still wearing her gauze facial covering, to come forward and take a seat near the equipment that Harbison had set up for the meeting. Iris came forward and sat in the chair that Harbison motioned her to. 
Gesturing at his equipment, Harbison said that the first step of the demonstration would be for him to play a recording of the sounds that he had synthesized electronically of an authentic rendering of the Lovecraftian phrase "Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn," which is so well known to devotees of Lovecraft's fiction. He directed Iris to pay particular attention to the sounds, as she would very shortly be expected to attempt a pronunciation of those sounds. He also proceeded to hand out to everyone a sheet containing a precise phonetic breakdown of the phrase, again, with the intent of making possible an understanding of the correct pronunciation for the phrase. 
Switching on his tape mechanism with a flourish like a magician, Harbison stood with arms folded as everyone in the group listened to the sounds that his mechanism produced. The sounds that issued forth were harsh, metallic and strange. I believe I was able to recognize the individual words that composed the phrase, but I had never imagined that they could sound quite as they did in that recording. I think it was at this point that I and, I suspect, many of the group, began to experience the first intimations of a deep-seated sense of unease about the activity we were engaged in. 
Beckoning me to come forward and stand beside Iris, Harbison asked me to remove the surgical gauze that had, up to now, concealed the lower portion of her face. Doing as he asked, I began to cut through the gauze with a pair of surgical scissors. As I did this, I can remember thinking how much like a confused and frightened little girl Iris seemed. I felt a tremor of self-disgust run through me as I thought again of my own role in this strange situation. Having completed the cutting, I removed the gauze. 
I don't believe any of us in the room were prepared for what we saw. I felt the hairs stand on the back of my neck and heard the sharp intake of breath that several people in the room took when Iris' face was revealed. I don't believe words can convey the utter strangeness of Iris' face. Although in no sense grossly deformed, her upper lip had a shape to it that suggested something alien and unnatural, yet the strangeness was not that of deformed human features, but rather of something truly unhuman, difficult as that might be to understand. Feeling another pang of self- reproach at my role in this sordid business, I moved away from Iris and Harbison, walking to the back of the room, where I stood by myself. I believe it was this gesture that allowed me to survive. 
Harbison bent down to Iris and whispered to her, while pointing to the phonetic analysis sheet she was holding. The two talked quietly for a time, then Harbison stood erect and announced that Iris was now ready and able to render the Lovecraftian phrase as it was meant to be rendered. Iris stood, glancing nervously in my direction as she did so, and proceeded to utter the words of the phrase "Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn." 
As the last word of the phrase was uttered, a sound like the angry electric buzzing of a defective flourescent light became audible. Things began to happen very quickly after that. One of the female members of the group stood up and began screaming hysterically "we shouldn't have done this," over and over. The buzzing sound increased in volume until it ended with an explosive bang like a pistol shot. Iris screamed once and fell back into the arms of Harbison, who struggled to keep her upright. Suddenly, in an explosion of blood and gore, a tendril-like thing emerged from Iris' chest. 
This tendril, which seemed to have the width of a human leg, quickly extruded itself out of the bloody and torn remains of the now quite dead Iris, and proceeded to flail itself about the room, reaching a length of about 20 feet as it did so. Several people were struck down as it lashed about; I was certain they were killed when struck by the thing. Further, as this tentacle flailed about, it seemed to throw off things from its rugose surface which hit against the walls, floor and ceiling of the room; a few people appeared to be struck by these flying things as well. As quickly as it had come, the tendril then disappeared, seeming to withdraw into the ripped body of Iris, lying dead on the floor. The tentacle had been present in the room for only three to four seconds before disappearing, but this was not the end of the horror. 
The objects that the tentacle had thrown off during its brief appearance began to pulsate and jump about the room. I can only describe these things by likening them to the freshwater organism known as the hydra. They had a polyp- like structure, consisting of a cylindrical foot-stalk which terminated at one end in a cluster of tentacles; they were about ten inches in length. These creatures proceeded to bound about the room on their foot-stalks for a moment, then suddenly, as if realizing that the humans in the room were their prey, began to jump upon and fasten themselves to several of the people standing in the room. After fastening themselves, the bodies of these hydra-things began to pulsate and swell; it was obvious to me that the hydra- things were sucking the fluids from the bodies of their victims. 
One of the victims so attacked was Harbison. A moment before rushing from the room in a blind panic, I made eye contact with him, and remember the look of stark, uncomprehending horror upon his face. As much as I hold the man responsible for the horror that has befallen mankind, I still feel a pang of emotion when thinking of the beseeching look in his eyes; a look that was a cry for help, even though he realized none would be forthcoming. 
As to the nightmare that life upon this planet has become, I can give only the narrow snapshot of details that my own experience has provided me. The hydra-things began to multiply. From that initial point-of-entry to our world in that room, they multiplied and spread rapidly. Highly mobile and possessing the ability to move with great speed, they also demonstrated the ability to fly and travel in water, sprouting membranous wing-like structures to do so. Also, they were capable of growing during their life-cycle to a much larger size; a mature specimen could easily reach a length of 20 feet or more. Above all, they were predatory. All organic life on this planet large enough to interest them became their prey, but man seemed to bear the brunt of their voracious appetites. 
Mankind did try to fight back, but the hydra-things moved and multiplied with such astonishing speed that little could be done that was meaningful. More than one human population center was wiped out by desperate nuclear attacks that were intended to destroy large numbers of them; some were killed by these sort of attacks, but far more survived, and many innocent people died to prove the futility of the military's actions. Bounding about the landscape of earth on their muscular foot-stalks or swooping down on their victims' from above when it suited them, the hydra-things came to dominant the earth; there was little mankind could do but hunker down in some sort of shelter and hope to escape their notice. 
Yes, to hunker down, as I am doing right now, as I reflect upon all that has befallen me and a mankind that didn't really deserve to suffer this sort of wretched demise. Just this morning, peering from the basement window of an abandoned house on the outskirts of the city in which I had maintained my successful but long-gone medical practice, I witnessed a scene of horror. I had seen many such scenes since this living nightmare began, but this was the worst. 
A young couple with a child, apparently from a desperation born of hunger or just the cruel hopelessness of the situation, came rushing out into the open. Maybe thinking they could somehow run away from all the horror that life had become, they started to run in the direction of the countryside. Suddenly, hydra-things were everywhere, small and large in size; they rushed upon the young family and buried them under a mass of their pulsating shapes. When they had stopped their frenzied feeding, what remained was no longer recognizable as even having once been human, just a few scraps of tissue remained, nothing more. 
So yes, I hunker down, thinking, reflecting on the past, trying to survive as long as I can, although I don't know what point there is to prolonging this now wretched and joyless existence. Yes, I had a hand in it, but I like to think my role was the most excusable, but then again, was it? I was a doctor, shouldn't I have known better? Was I acting out of concern for Iris in what I did, or was it a morbid fascination for Harbison's theories that I may have developed, if only subconsciously, in spite of my avowed skepticism? At this point, I don't think I would even want to know. 
As for the hydra-things, what are they? If, in fact, a line of communication was briefly opened up between our world and some sort of Lovecraftian alternate universe because of Iris' enunciation of the Lovecraftian phrase, then it seems plausible that the tentacle that extruded itself from poor Iris' chest may have been the merest appendage of some sort of Lovecraftian monstrosity. Perhaps this monstrosity was huge beyond all imagining, and by glimpsing the tentacle, we were shown only a very small portion of it. 
But again, what would that make the hydra-things? It is only an educated guess on my part, but one could speculate that the hydra-things were some sort of parasite or symbiotic organism that existed, flea-like, upon the exterior of the cosmic monstrosity whose tentacle we briefly saw. If that speculation is accurate, then I suspect even Lovecraft himself would be grimly amused at the fate that has befallen us: to be dragged down and devoured, not by the cosmic and colossal entities that he wrote about, but rather by the things that might live, like lice or fleas, upon their exteriors. 
So now, I wait and try to live day by day. Yes, I am culpable, but what of it? What body of law or court of justice will mete out to me my just deserts? Thinking about it, was there really anything to what Harbison preached? I don't know. Maybe the perverted alchemy of the interaction of our three personalities brought this all about. Three personalities, embodied in Harbison's analytical fanaticism, Iris' half-mad, obsessive wish-fulfillment, and my own dilettantish dabblings in matters Lovecraftian; did we create all that has occurred just by believing in the reality of Lovecraft's vision and making it come true in the process? Again, I don't know. But I do know that life on earth is now a hell, and mankind is doomed. So, if there is a God, please forgive me for my role in all this. Somehow, please try and forgive me. Please. Please... 
THE END 
The Ultimate Evil 
by Bruce Turlish 
Something had to be done. Cthulhu had mankind on the ropes and it didn't look good at all. The beginning of the hellish assault had been signaled by the suicides of many artists, scientists and other intellectuals. These "sensitive" individuals were driven to madness and self- destruction by the telepathic "dream-sendings" that Cthulhu was projecting forth from his cyclopean lair in the depths of the Pacific. As the assault progressed, more and more individuals fell victim to hysteria, derangement and self- destruction. No longer were "sensitive" intellectuals the only victims; everyone now was susceptible to this psychic attack--from savages to factory workers to grave-diggers, all were swept up and engulfed by this scourge. The cause was clear enough to anyone who had been touched by these "dream-sendings." "The monstrosity beneath the sea" became everyone's obsession and source of terror; Cthulhu seemed to revel in making his existence known. The betentacled and gargantuan mass of protean tissue that was the obscene reality of Cthulhu was no longer just a literary figment--it was hellishly real and malignantly alive. As to why the assault started when it did must remain conjecture; was Cthulhu fully awakened by a seismic disturbance in the deep ocean, were the constellations "right" for this to begin, did some sort of internal "clock" awaken him, was Cthulhu's "hunger" for human flesh driving him to increased aggressivity--who now can say? 
Mankind was desperate and flailing about for a solution; governmental leaders turned to the military for an answer. Cthulhu was known to dwell in his fortress-city of R'lyeh, deep down in the Pacific. Further, his psychic dream-sendings carried with them strong indications of where R'lyeh was located--Cthulhu almost seemed to be saying "come and get me" to the humanity that he was now so persistently victimizing. The military certainly tried to "get" Cthulhu. They sent forth a fleet of fast-attack submarines; Cthulhu let them get just so close, then seized the crews' minds and sent them screaming with madness to their deaths, crushed by the pressure of the deep ocean. The military sent forth bombers armed with undersea nuclear weapons; Cthulhu once again wielded his telepathic sword--sending the bombers, piloted now by crews transformed into demented marionettes, to drop their bombs on densely populated cities, wreaking death and destruction. Cthulhu rose to full fury now-- apparently incensed at mankind's impudence in trying to attack him. He squatted like a bloated spider within R'lyeh and used his telepathic weaponry with a vengeance; he cut, thrust, slashed and stabbed--all with sadistic malevolence but uncanny precision. He seized the minds of a group of nuns who were vacationing at Niagara Falls to get their minds off the world crisis, and sent them jumping to their deaths in the raging waters below. A newly-wed couple was visiting Paris with expectations of romance and tender love- -Cthulhu sent them to a wretched death, throwing themselves beneath the wheels of an arriving train in the Paris underground. This and much more similar did Cthulhu inflict upon mankind, and humankind began to see the handwriting on the wall--a wretched death for all and Cthulhu triumphant. 
While all this was happening, a shadowy subpopulation of the world sat up and took notice. "What will become of us if mankind dies out?" "Will our blood-stock be eliminated?" "What should we do?," they asked. The creatures that asked these questions were none other than the nosferatu, known to most of the world as vampires or Undead. Since they were already dead and quite inhuman in nature, they were not afflicted with any of the sufferings that "normal" mankind was experiencing. Seeing that their source of sustenance was threatened with extinction, they decided to act. The necessary contacts within government were made and, within a short while, a meeting was arranged between the chosen representatives of the nosferatu and certain political and military leaders--a meeting that took place in a conference room deep in the bowels of the Pentagon. The nosferatu were wise--they chose members of their clan who were least likely to frighten or disgust humankind with their appearance and demeanor. Even given that, these were not vampires who conformed to the notion of the "romantic" vampire. With vampiric canine teeth glinting wickedly in the subdued lighting of the meeting room, and with fingers suggestive of flesh-rending claws and eyes giving forth a ghostly phosphorescence, they invoked an exquisite sense of unease among the human participants of the meeting. The offer made by the nosferatu at that meeting was short and sweet: "We are immune to this Cthulhu's telepathic attack, owing to our vampiric nature," they said. "Equip us with weapons, train us in their use, and give us the means to mount an attack upon Cthulhu; we'll do our utmost to pull mankind's fat out of the fire--after all, it appears you need us, given the situation, while we certainly need you--for your blood." That last comment was wicked and cynical, but the nosferatu knew when they had the upper hand. The human participants knew who had the upper hand too, and quickly acquiesced. It was agreed that a select number of "vampire-commandos" would be trained and equipped to carry the battle to Cthulhu in his lair of R'lyeh. The meeting concluded with a consensus of agreement that something meaningful had been achieved--mankind now had some small hope of fighting back and perhaps, yes, even surviving. In spite of this, two high-ranking military officers who had attended the meeting went directly to a men's lavatory and blew their brains out with their service pistols--they had apparently seen and heard more than they could stomach at the meeting, and took the quick but messy way out. 
Activity began immediately after the fateful meeting. The nosferatu set about recruiting the toughest and most ferocious of their number--after all, they needed fighters now, not diplomats. Needless to say, the vampires who were recruited for this assignment were the epitome of the stereotypical "predatory" vampire. Their canine teeth were sharp and elongated almost to the point of grotesquerie; their fingers were not merely "flesh-rending," but suggested the power to eviscerate at a single swipe, while their eyes gave forth a red demonic glow as if there were a fire deep within their brains. They were monsters, in short--but monsters were needed now. One thousand vampire-commandos were to be trained for this mission of destroying Cthulhu-- training which soon commenced. The vampire-commandos proved to be apt pupils in learning how to use the rocket launchers, heavy machine-guns and flame-throwers they would be armed with. They showed equal facility in the art of lobbing the phosphorus grenades they would be carrying, and were nothing short of brilliant in the use of close-in weapons like the trench-knife, though they set far greater store in their ability to slash any amount of tissue to ribbons with their "finger-claws." They made passable students in learning how to operate the specially outfitted submarines that would carry them to the target destination of R'lyeh, but this skill was required for only that small number of vampire-commandos who would be actively engaged in piloting the craft. The training was not without its contretemps, however; three military instructors committed suicide, seven had nervous breakdowns, and five went irreversibly insane. In addition, being at close quarters with so many blood-rich humans as they were, the vampire- commandos succumbed to a "blood-frenzy" on one occasion--and three military instructors were attacked and sucked dry of all their blood. This was a small price to pay, as one military officer observed, for the chance of allowing mankind to survive. With their training completed and the special submarines prepared for the mission awaiting them, the one thousand vampire-commandos were transported to a secluded location on the West Coast of the United States, and soon the black hulls of the undersea vessels were gliding quietly away from land, going deep, deep into the depths of the Pacific. 
Onward the avenging submarines drove, dark and silent, into the deep, wide sea. Guided by the sophisticated instruments that had a "fix" upon the location of R'lyeh, the vampire-commandos who piloted the vessels had supreme confidence that they could bring their vessels close enough to R'lyeh to discharge their cargo of vampiric ferocity into the structure that was Cthulhu's dwelling-place. Considerable planning had gone into this scheme, with the submarines being furnished with devices that could drive home a "debarkation-tube" through which the vampire- commandos could clamber in order to gain entry to Cthulhu's lair. It must be understood that the vampire-commandos were virtually impervious to physical injury; possessed of superhuman strength, indifferent to extremes of temperature and pressure, and not even requiring air to breathe, they were ideally suited for the assault that they hoped soon to launch. Some military planners had proposed that, once having precisely located R'lyeh, the submarines should launch nuclear-armed torpedoes at R'lyeh from a distance. The vampire-commando leadership vociferously rejected this notion, arguing that, if it failed, Cthulhu might be sealed away alive inside a monumental pile of rubble and slag which might render direct physical assault difficult, if not impossible--and the vampire-commandos definitely looked forward to a direct assault. They were really "up" for this mission and had even developed a certain esprit de corps amongst themselves; they were eager to close with this Cthulhu and butcher him close-up. It was certainly not a desire to avenge mankind that prompted this feeling, but derived rather from the innate bloodthirstiness and ferocity of the vampire mentality. The vampire-commandos were ready and confident--by their very nature, they could not feel anxiety or apprehension about the upcoming battle. For them, it was just a matter of time. 
Cthulhu knew that something was afoot. Deep inside R'lyeh, in a chamber so vast it defied description, he shifted his monumental bulk slightly--perhaps expressing some vague feeling of disquiet. His most loyal and ferocious undersea minions, the giant squid, had informed him telepathically that things large, dark and foreign to the sea were fast approaching. Cthulhu immediately recognized them for what they were, and sent forth a telepathic probe of lethal intensity. What he sensed from this tentative probing was puzzling to him--there was no suggestion of human mentation or emotion, yet there was something there that suggested a vitality of an almost animalistic nature, similar to what he was accustomed to when telepathically linked to his chief undersea servants, the giant squid. This experience increased the sense of disquiet that he felt, but Cthulhu had little time to reflect on this discovery, for the objects in question, ten submarines filled and pulsating with vampiric fury, had made a close approach to the outside walls of the huge edifice known as R'lyeh. Once having come within this "striking" distance, these specially equipped vessels proceeded to extend tubular structures of a unique design and appearance which began to furiously bore into the substance of R'lyeh's exterior. 
Within the submarines, the vampire-commandos had worked themselves up to a frenzied, almost berserker-like condition. Yet there was a grim sense of purpose and control to them as well--they had been trained to operate in teams when conducting the attack and knew that this Cthulhu was a monster of gargantuan size and power who was not to be underestimated. Nevertheless, when the boring devices had broken through the thick, but not impenetrable walls of R'lyeh, and the telescoping "debarkation tubes" had been extended forward and through the breaches produced, a great shout of animal fury arose from the vampire-commandos. The moment had arrived and they were ready and eager to begin their attack. Armed to the teeth with all manner of portable weaponry and survival gear, the vampire-commandos streamed down the shafts of the "debarkation tubes" to the point at which the tubes opened out into the interior of R'lyeh. Make no mistake, these were hardened and determined commandos who were on the attack, not an undisciplined mob; the attack groups paused when they reached the ends of the shafts and considered the situation. From the shaft openings, the attackers looked out upon a huge cavern, the walls of which glistened with a faint bluish luminescence. Being vampires, and therefore having no difficulty in seeing in darkness, they saw also that the surface of the cavern walls seemed to be roiled by constant, undulating movement. What they did not know at that moment was that Cthulhu had exuded a remarkable glutinous substance which coated the entire interior of R'lyeh, providing a seal against the sea. This substance also had a limited sentience which proceeded to manifest itself by reacting to the presence of the vampire-commando invaders. It began to quickly ooze into and over the breaches produced by the invasive "debarkation tubes." The vampire-commandos reacted quickly, discharging their flame-throwers against the oozing substance; they discovered to their glee that the substance burned and withered quickly under this assault. Continuing to burn furiously ahead of them with their flame-guns, the vampire- commandos advanced grimly forward, out of the "debarkation tubes," across the surface of the cavern and into the connecting tunnels which they now realized led ultimately to their quarry. 
Far below in the "mother-cavern," Cthulhu reflected and considered. The invaders had breached his first physical defense, and he had long since discovered that they were completely immune to his telepathic powers. He directed his small army of roaming polymorphic shoggoths to attack the invaders without delay. The shoggoths moved to the attack, but the vampire-commandos were ready for this assault as well. The lumbering shoggoths never really stood a chance-- the vampire commandos cut into them with devastating streams of liquid fire, peppered them with tissue-charring phosphorus grenades, and raked them with explosive rounds of heavy machine-gun fire. As this pandemonium went on far above him, Cthulhu continued to reflect on what was developing--and waited. 
The vampire-commandos were carrying all before them; they felt an exhilaration and euphoria quite unlike anything else they had ever experienced--even the first taste of human blood after a long period of blood-fasting couldn't compare with this feeling. They continued to move relentlessly forward, almost by instinct now, and finally arrived at the "mother-cavern" where great Cthulhu resided. Weapons at the ready, they streamed in by the hundreds and soon a great multitude of them ranged across the cavern surface--they stood and contemplated what they had finally brought to bay, this ferocious, battle-proven army of befanged and demon-eyed creatures of the dark. 
Cthulhu rose before them; he towered and bulked mountain-like. Cthulhu was huge and powerful--he was god- like. His gargantuan head held demon-eyes that glowed with the fury of stellar furnaces. His face was a swarm of long, constantly moving tentacles which lashed and flailed about with utter savagery. He possessed colossal bat-like wings which could launch him through the depths of interstellar space. His torso and limbs were almost beyond description-- spider-like, yet corded with a thick musculature that suggested something massively, oppressively machine-like. Above all, he was titanically monumental and, no other word served--cosmic. 
The vampire-commandos gave forth a great moan and fell almost as one to their knees. This was true evil, this was utter diabolism, this was supreme monstrousness. Cthulhu's evil was macrocosmic and contained the vast sweep of dark universes; their evil was puny, inconsequential and microcosmic in comparison. They had found their true god, the embodiment of pure evil, cosmic evil, the ultimate evil. Now it would be mankind's turn and, perhaps someday, the universe's. Cthulhu and these splendid vampire-commandos-- joined together, what could they not achieve? Death and destruction!! 

The Call of Cthulhu
by H. P. Lovecraft

Written Summer 1926

Published February 1928 in Weird Tales, Vol. 11, No. 2, p. 159-78, 287.

Of such great powers or beings there may be conceivably a survival... a survival of a hugely remote period when... consciousness was manifested, perhaps, in shapes and forms long since withdrawn before the tide of advancing humanity... forms of which poetry and legend alone have caught a flying memory and called them gods, monsters, mythical beings of all sorts and kinds...

- Algernon Blackwood
I. The Horror In Clay

The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the light into the peace and safety of a new dark age.

Theosophists have guessed at the awesome grandeur of the cosmic cycle wherein our world and human race form transient incidents. They have hinted at strange survivals in terms which would freeze the blood if not masked by a bland optimism. But it is not from them that there came the single glimpse of forbidden eons which chills me when I think of it and maddens me when I dream of it. That glimpse, like all dread glimpses of truth, flashed out from an accidental piecing together of separated things - in this case an old newspaper item and the notes of a dead professor. I hope that no one else will accomplish this piecing out; certainly, if I live, I shall never knowingly supply a link in so hideous a chain. I think that the professor, too intented to keep silent regarding the part he knew, and that he would have destroyed his notes had not sudden death seized him.

My knowledge of the thing began in the winter of 1926-27 with the death of my great-uncle, George Gammell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic Languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Professor Angell was widely known as an authority on ancient inscriptions, and had frequently been resorted to by the heads of prominent museums; so that his passing at the age of ninety-two may be recalled by many. Locally, interest was intensified by the obscurity of the cause of death. The professor had been stricken whilst returning from the Newport boat; falling suddenly; as witnesses said, after having been jostled by a nautical-looking negro who had come from one of the queer dark courts on the precipitous hillside which formed a short cut from the waterfront to the deceased's home in Williams Street. Physicians were unable to find any visible disorder, but concluded after perplexed debate that some obscure lesion of the heart, induced by the brisk ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for the end. At the time I saw no reason to dissent from this dictum, but latterly I am inclined to wonder - and more than wonder.

As my great-uncle's heir and executor, for he died a childless widower, I was expected to go over his papers with some thoroughness; and for that purpose moved his entire set of files and boxes to my quarters in Boston. Much of the material which I correlated will be later published by the American Archaeological Society, but there was one box which I found exceedingly puzzling, and which I felt much averse from showing to other eyes. It had been locked and I did not find the key till it occurred to me to examine the personal ring which the professor carried in his pocket. Then, indeed, I succeeded in opening it, but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more closely locked barrier. For what could be the meaning of the queer clay bas-relief and the disjointed jottings, ramblings, and cuttings which I found? Had my uncle, in his latter years become credulous of the most superficial impostures? I resolved to search out the eccentric sculptor responsible for this apparent disturbance of an old man's peace of mind.

The bas-relief was a rough rectangle less than an inch thick and about five by six inches in area; obviously of modern origin. Its designs, however, were far from modern in atmosphere and suggestion; for, although the vagaries of cubism and futurism are many and wild, they do not often reproduce that cryptic regularity which lurks in prehistoric writing. And writing of some kind the bulk of these designs seemed certainly to be; though my memory, despite much the papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this particular species, or even hint at its remotest affiliations.

Above these apparent hieroglyphics was a figure of evident pictorial intent, though its impressionistic execution forbade a very clear idea of its nature. It seemed to be a sort of monster, or symbol representing a monster, of a form which only a diseased fancy could conceive. If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature, I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy, tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary wings; but it was the general outline of the whole which made it most shockingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestions of a Cyclopean architectural background.

The writing accompanying this oddity was, aside from a stack of press cuttings, in Professor Angell's most recent hand; and made no pretense to literary style. What seemed to be the main document was headed "CTHULHU CULT" in characters painstakingly printed to avoid the erroneous reading of a word so unheard-of. This manuscript was divided into two sections, the first of which was headed "1925 - Dream and Dream Work of H.A. Wilcox, 7 Thomas St., Providence, R. I.", and the second, "Narrative of Inspector John R. Legrasse, 121 Bienville St., New Orleans, La., at 1908 A. A. S. Mtg. - Notes on Same, & Prof. Webb's Acct." The other manuscript papers were brief notes, some of them accounts of the queer dreams of different persons, some of them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W. Scott-Elliot's Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria ), and the rest comments on long-surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references to passages in such mythological and anthropological source-books as Frazer's Golden Bough and Miss Murray's Witch-Cult in Western Europe. The cuttings largely alluded to outr mental illness and outbreaks of group folly or mania in the spring of 1925.

The first half of the principal manuscript told a very particular tale. It appears that on March 1st, 1925, a thin, dark young man of neurotic and excited aspect had called upon Professor Angell bearing the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and fresh. His card bore the name of Henry Anthony Wilcox, and my uncle had recognized him as the youngest son of an excellent family slightly known to him, who had latterly been studying sculpture at the Rhode Island School of Design and living alone at the Fleur-de-Lys Building near that institution. Wilcox was a precocious youth of known genius but great eccentricity, and had from chidhood excited attention through the strange stories and odd dreams he was in the habit of relating. He called himself "psychically hypersensitive", but the staid folk of the ancient commercial city dismissed him as merely "queer." Never mingling much with his kind, he had dropped gradually from social visibility, and was now known only to a small group of esthetes from other towns. Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its conservatism, had found him quite hopeless.

On the ocassion of the visit, ran the professor's manuscript, the sculptor abruptly asked for the benefit of his host's archeological knowledge in identifying the hieroglyphics of the bas-relief. He spoke in a dreamy, stilted manner which suggested pose and alienated sympathy; and my uncle showed some sharpness in replying, for the conspicuous freshness of the tablet implied kinship with anything but archeology. Young Wilcox's rejoinder, which impressed my uncle enough to make him recall and record it verbatim, was of a fantastically poetic cast which must have typified his whole conversation, and which I have since found highly characteristic of him. He said, "It is new, indeed, for I made it last night in a dream of strange cities; and dreams are older than brooding Tyre, or the contemplative Sphinx, or garden-girdled Babylon."

It was then that he began that rambling tale which suddenly played upon a sleeping memory and won the fevered interest of my uncle. There had been a slight earthquake tremor the night before, the most considerable felt in New England for some years; and Wilcox's imagination had been keenly affected. Upon retiring, he had had an unprecedented dream of great Cyclopean cities of Titan blocks and sky-flung monoliths, all dripping with green ooze and sinister with latent horror. Hieroglyphics had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters: "Cthulhu fhtagn."

This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and disturbed Professor Angell. He questioned the sculptor with scientific minuteness; and studied with frantic intensity the bas-relief on which the youth had found himself working, chilled and clad only in his night clothes, when waking had stolen bewilderingly over him. My uncle blamed his old age, Wilcox afterwards said, for his slowness in recognizing both hieroglyphics and pictorial design. Many of his questions seemed highly out of place to his visitor, especially those which tried to connect the latter with strange cults or societies; and Wilcox could not understand the repeated promises of silence which he was offered in exchange for an admission of membership in some widespread mystical or paganly religious body. When Professor Angell became convinced that the sculptor was indeed ignorant of any cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands for future reports of dreams. This bore regular fruit, for after the first interview the manuscript records daily calls of the young man, during which he related startling fragments of nocturnal imaginery whose burden was always some terrible Cyclopean vista of dark and dripping stone, with a subterrene voice or intelligence shouting monotonously in enigmatical sense-impacts uninscribable save as gibberish. The two sounds frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters "Cthulhu" and "R'lyeh."

On March 23, the manuscript continued, Wilcox failed to appear; and inquiries at his quarters revealed that he had been stricken with an obscure sort of fever and taken to the home of his family in Waterman Street. He had cried out in the night, arousing several other artists in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of unconsciousness and delirium. My uncle at once telephoned the family, and from that time forward kept close watch of the case; calling often at the Thayer Street office of Dr. Tobey, whom he learned to be in charge. The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of them. They included not only a repetition of what he had formerly dreamed, but touched wildly on a gigantic thing "miles high" which walked or lumbered about.

He at no time fully described this object but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity he had sought to depict in his dream-sculpture. Reference to this object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's subsidence into lethargy. His temperature, oddly enough, was not greatly above normal; but the whole condition was otherwise such as to suggest true fever rather than mental disorder.

On April 2 at about 3 P.M. every trace of Wilcox's malady suddenly ceased. He sat upright in bed, astonished to find himself at home and completely ignorant of what had happened in dream or reality since the night of March 22. Pronounced well by his physician, he returned to his quarters in three days; but to Professor Angell he was of no further assistance. All traces of strange dreaming had vanished with his recovery, and my uncle kept no record of his night-thoughts after a week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.

Here the first part of the manuscript ended, but references to certain of the scattered notes gave me much material for thought - so much, in fact, that only the ingrained skepticism then forming my philosophy can account for my continued distrust of the artist. The notes in question were those descriptive of the dreams of various persons covering the same period as that in which young Wilcox had had his strange visitations. My uncle, it seems, had quickly instituted a prodigiously far-flung body of inquires amongst nearly all the friends whom he could question without impertinence, asking for nightly reports of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time past. The reception of his request seems to have varied; but he must, at the very least, have received more responses than any ordinary man could have handled without a secretary. This original correspondence was not preserved, but his notes formed a thorough and really significant digest. Average people in society and business - New England's traditional "salt of the earth" - gave an almost completely negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March 23 and and April 2 - the period of young Wilcox's delirium. Scientific men were little more affected, though four cases of vague description suggest fugitive glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.

It was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came, and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to compare notes. As it was, lacking their original letters, I half suspected the compiler of having asked leading questions, or of having edited the correspondence in corroboration of what he had latently resolved to see. That is why I continued to feel that Wilcox, somehow cognizant of the old data which my uncle had possessed, had been imposing on the veteran scientist. These responses from esthetes told disturbing tale. From February 28 to April 2 a large proportion of them had dreamed very bizarre things, the intensity of the dreams being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's delirium. Over a fourth of those who reported anything, reported scenes and half-sounds not unlike those which Wilcox had described; and some of the dreamers confessed acute fear of the gigantic nameless thing visible toward the last. One case, which the note describes with emphasis, was very sad. The subject, a widely known architect with leanings toward theosophy and occultism, went violently insane on the date of young Wilcox's seizure, and expired several months later after incessant screamings to be saved from some escaped denizen of hell. Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full. I have often wondered if all the the objects of the professor's questioning felt as puzzled as did this fraction. It is well that no explanation shall ever reach them.

The press cuttings, as I have intimated, touched on cases of panic, mania, and eccentricity during the given period. Professor Angell must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was tremendous, and the sources scattered throughout the globe. Here was a nocturnal suicide in London, where a lone sleeper had leaped from a window after a shocking cry. Here likewise a rambling letter to the editor of a paper in South America, where a fanatic deduces a dire future from visions he has seen. A dispatch from California describes a theosophist colony as donning white robes en masse for some "glorious fulfiment" which never arrives, whilst items from India speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of March 22-23.

The west of Ireland, too, is full of wild rumour and legendry, and a fantastic painter named Ardois-Bonnot hangs a blasphemous Dream Landscape in the Paris spring salon of 1926. And so numerous are the recorded troubles in insane asylums that only a miracle can have stopped the medical fraternity from noting strange parallelisms and drawing mystified conclusions. A weird bunch of cuttings, all told; and I can at this date scarcely envisage the callous rationalism with which I set them aside. But I was then convinced that young Wilcox had known of the older matters mentioned by the professor.
II. The Tale of Inspector Legrasse.

The older matters which had made the sculptor's dream and bas-relief so significant to my uncle formed the subject of the second half of his long manuscript. Once before, it appears, Professor Angell had seen the hellish outlines of the nameless monstrosity, puzzled over the unknown hieroglyphics, and heard the ominous syllables which can be rendered only as "Cthulhu" ; and all this in so stirring and horrible a connexion that it is small wonder he pursued young Wilcox with queries and demands for data.

This earlier experience had come in 1908, seventeen years before, when the American Archaeological Society held its annual meeting in St. Louis. Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering and problems for expert solution.

The chief of these outsiders, and in a short time the focus of interest for the entire meeting, was a commonplace-looking middle-aged man who had travelled all the way from New Orleans for certain special information unobtainable from any local source. His name was John Raymond Legrasse, and he was by profession an Inspector of Police. With him he bore the subject of his visit, a grotesque, repulsive, and apparently very ancient stone statuette whose origin he was at a loss to determine. It must not be fancied that Inspector Legrasse had the least interest in archaeology. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted by purely professional considerations. The statuette, idol, fetish, or whatever it was, had been captured some months before in the wooded swamps south of New Orleans during a raid on a supposed voodoo meeting; and so singular and hideous were the rites connected with it, that the police could not but realise that they had stumbled on a dark cult totally unknown to them, and infinitely more diabolic than even the blackest of the African voodoo circles. Of its origin, apart from the erratic and unbelievable tales extorted from the captured members, absolutely nothing was to be discovered; hence the anxiety of the police for any antiquarian lore which might help them to place the frightful symbol, and through it track down the cult to its fountain-head.

Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his offering created. One sight of the thing had been enough to throw the assembled men of science into a state of tense excitement, and they lost no time in crowding around him to gaze at the diminutive figure whose utter strangeness and air of genuinely abysmal antiquity hinted so potently at unopened and archaic vistas. No recognised school of sculpture had animated this terrible object, yet centuries and even thousands of years seemed recorded in its dim and greenish surface of unplaceable stone.

The figure, which was finally passed slowly from man to man for close and careful study, was between seven and eight inches in height, and of exquisitely artistic workmanship. It represented a monster of vaguely anthropoid outline, but with an octopus-like head whose face was a mass of feelers, a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind. This thing, which seemed instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy, was of a somewhat bloated corpulence, and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or pedestal covered with undecipherable characters. The tips of the wings touched the back edge of the block, the seat occupied the centre, whilst the long, curved claws of the doubled-up, crouching hind legs gripped the front edge and extended a quarter of the way clown toward the bottom of the pedestal. The cephalopod head was bent forward, so that the ends of the facial feelers brushed the backs of huge fore paws which clasped the croucher's elevated knees. The aspect of the whole was abnormally life-like, and the more subtly fearful because its source was so totally unknown. Its vast, awesome, and incalculable age was unmistakable; yet not one link did it shew with any known type of art belonging to civilisation's youth - or indeed to any other time. Totally separate and apart, its very material was a mystery; for the soapy, greenish-black stone with its golden or iridescent flecks and striations resembled nothing familiar to geology or mineralogy. The characters along the base were equally baffling; and no member present, despite a representation of half the world's expert learning in this field, could form the least notion of even their remotest linguistic kinship. They, like the subject and material, belonged to something horribly remote and distinct from mankind as we know it. something frightfully suggestive of old and unhallowed cycles of life in which our world and our conceptions have no part.

And yet, as the members severally shook their heads and confessed defeat at the Inspector's problem, there was one man in that gathering who suspected a touch of bizarre familiarity in the monstrous shape and writing, and who presently told with some diffidence of the odd trifle he knew. This person was the late William Channing Webb, Professor of Anthropology in Princeton University, and an explorer of no slight note. Professor Webb had been engaged, forty-eight years before, in a tour of Greenland and Iceland in search of some Runic inscriptions which he failed to unearth; and whilst high up on the West Greenland coast had encountered a singular tribe or cult of degenerate Esquimaux whose religion, a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness. It was a faith of which other Esquimaux knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders, saying that it had come down from horribly ancient aeons before ever the world was made. Besides nameless rites and human sacrifices there were certain queer hereditary rituals addressed to a supreme elder devil or tornasuk; and of this Professor Webb had taken a careful phonetic copy from an aged angekok or wizard-priest, expressing the sounds in Roman letters as best he knew how. But just now of prime significance was the fetish which this cult had cherished, and around which they danced when the aurora leaped high over the ice cliffs. It was, the professor stated, a very crude bas-relief of stone, comprising a hideous picture and some cryptic writing. And so far as he could tell, it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing now lying before the meeting.

This data, received with suspense and astonishment by the assembled members, proved doubly exciting to Inspector Legrasse; and he began at once to ply his informant with questions. Having noted and copied an oral ritual among the swamp cult-worshippers his men had arrested, he besought the professor to remember as best he might the syllables taken down amongst the diabolist Esquimaux. There then followed an exhaustive comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart. What, in substance, both the Esquimaux wizards and the Louisiana swamp-priests had chanted to their kindred idols was something very like this: the word-divisions being guessed at from traditional breaks in the phrase as chanted aloud:

"Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn."

Legrasse had one point in advance of Professor Webb, for several among his mongrel prisoners had repeated to him what older celebrants had told them the words meant. This text, as given, ran something like this:

"In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."

And now, in response to a general and urgent demand, Inspector Legrasse related as fully as possible his experience with the swamp worshippers; telling a story to which I could see my uncle attached profound significance. It savoured of the wildest dreams of myth-maker and theosophist, and disclosed an astonishing degree of cosmic imagination among such half-castes and pariahs as might be least expected to possess it.

On November 1st, 1907, there had come to the New Orleans police a frantic summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south. The squatters there, mostly primitive but good-natured descendants of Lafitte's men, were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen upon them in the night. It was voodoo, apparently, but voodoo of a more terrible sort than they had ever known; and some of their women and children had disappeared since the malevolent tom-tom had begun its incessant beating far within the black haunted woods where no dweller ventured. There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul-chilling chants and dancing devil-flames; and, the frightened messenger added, the people could stand it no more.

So a body of twenty police, filling two carriages and an automobile, had set out in the late afternoon with the shivering squatter as a guide. At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day never came. Ugly roots and malignant hanging nooses of Spanish moss beset them, and now and then a pile of dank stones or fragment of a rotting wall intensified by its hint of morbid habitation a depression which every malformed tree and every fungous islet combined to create. At length the squatter settlement, a miserable huddle of huts, hove in sight; and hysterical dwellers ran out to cluster around the group of bobbing lanterns. The muffled beat of tom-toms was now faintly audible far, far ahead; and a curdling shriek came at infrequent intervals when the wind shifted. A reddish glare, too, seemed to filter through pale undergrowth beyond the endless avenues of forest night. Reluctant even to be left alone again, each one of the cowed squatters refused point-blank to advance another inch toward the scene of unholy worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod before.

The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men. There were legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a huge, formless white polypous thing with luminous eyes; and squatters whispered that bat-winged devils flew up out of caverns in inner earth to worship it at midnight. They said it had been there before d'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the wholesome beasts and birds of the woods. It was nightmare itself, and to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to keep away. The present voodoo orgy was, indeed, on the merest fringe of this abhorred area, but that location was bad enough; hence perhaps the very place of the worship had terrified the squatters more than the shocking sounds and incidents.

Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises heard by Legrasse's men as they ploughed on through the black morass toward the red glare and muffled tom-toms. There are vocal qualities peculiar to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible to hear the one when the source should yield the other. Animal fury and orgiastic license here whipped themselves to daemoniac heights by howls and squawking ecstacies that tore and reverberated through those nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell. Now and then the less organized ululation would cease, and from what seemed a well-drilled chorus of hoarse voices would rise in sing-song chant that hideous phrase or ritual:

"Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn."

Then the men, having reached a spot where the trees were thinner, came suddenly in sight of the spectacle itself. Four of them reeled, one fainted, and two were shaken into a frantic cry which the mad cacophony of the orgy fortunately deadened. Legrasse dashed swamp water on the face of the fainting man, and all stood trembling and nearly hypnotised with horror.

In a natural glade of the swamp stood a grassy island of perhaps an acre's extent, clear of trees and tolerably dry. On this now leaped and twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a Sime or an Angarola could paint. Void of clothing, this hybrid spawn were braying, bellowing, and writhing about a monstrous ring-shaped bonfire; in the centre of which, revealed by occasional rifts in the curtain of flame, stood a great granite monolith some eight feet in height; on top of which, incongruous in its diminutiveness, rested the noxious carven statuette. From a wide circle of ten scaffolds set up at regular intervals with the flame-girt monolith as a centre hung, head downward, the oddly marred bodies of the helpless squatters who had disappeared. It was inside this circle that the ring of worshippers jumped and roared, the general direction of the mass motion being from left to right in endless Bacchanal between the ring of bodies and the ring of fire.

It may have been only imagination and it may have been only echoes which induced one of the men, an excitable Spaniard, to fancy he heard antiphonal responses to the ritual from some far and unillumined spot deeper within the wood of ancient legendry and horror. This man, Joseph D. Galvez, I later met and questioned; and he proved distractingly imaginative. He indeed went so far as to hint of the faint beating of great wings, and of a glimpse of shining eyes and a mountainous white bulk beyond the remotest trees but I suppose he had been hearing too much native superstition.

Actually, the horrified pause of the men was of comparatively brief duration. Duty came first; and although there must have been nearly a hundred mongrel celebrants in the throng, the police relied on their firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout. For five minutes the resultant din and chaos were beyond description. Wild blows were struck, shots were fired, and escapes were made; but in the end Legrasse was able to count some forty-seven sullen prisoners, whom he forced to dress in haste and fall into line between two rows of policemen. Five of the worshippers lay dead, and two severely wounded ones were carried away on improvised stretchers by their fellow-prisoners. The image on the monolith, of course, was carefully removed and carried back by Legrasse.

Examined at headquarters after a trip of intense strain and weariness, the prisoners all proved to be men of a very low, mixed-blooded, and mentally aberrant type. Most were seamen, and a sprinkling of Negroes and mulattoes, largely West Indians or Brava Portuguese from the Cape Verde Islands, gave a colouring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult. But before many questions were asked, it became manifest that something far deeper and older than Negro fetishism was involved. Degraded and ignorant as they were, the creatures held with surprising consistency to the central idea of their loathsome faith.

They worshipped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky. Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first men, who formed a cult which had never died. This was that cult, and the prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist, hidden in distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time when the great priest Cthulhu, from his dark house in the mighty city of R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath his sway. Some day he would call, when the stars were ready, and the secret cult would always be waiting to liberate him.

Meanwhile no more must be told. There was a secret which even torture could not extract. Mankind was not absolutely alone among the conscious things of earth, for shapes came out of the dark to visit the faithful few. But these were not the Great Old Ones. No man had ever seen the Old Ones. The carven idol was great Cthulhu, but none might say whether or not the others were precisely like him. No one could read the old writing now, but things were told by word of mouth. The chanted ritual was not the secret - that was never spoken aloud, only whispered. The chant meant only this: "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."

Only two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and the rest were committed to various institutions. All denied a part in the ritual murders, and averred that the killing had been done by Black Winged Ones which had come to them from their immemorial meeting-place in the haunted wood. But of those mysterious allies no coherent account could ever be gained. What the police did extract, came mainly from the immensely aged mestizo named Castro, who claimed to have sailed to strange ports and talked with undying leaders of the cult in the mountains of China.

Old Castro remembered bits of hideous legend that paled the speculations of theosophists and made man and the world seem recent and transient indeed. There had been aeons when other Things ruled on the earth, and They had had great cities. Remains of Them, he said the deathless Chinamen had told him, were still be found as Cyclopean stones on islands in the Pacific. They all died vast epochs of time before men came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of eternity. They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought Their images with Them.

These Great Old Ones, Castro continued, were not composed altogether of flesh and blood. They had shape - for did not this star-fashioned image prove it? - but that shape was not made of matter. When the stars were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky; but when the stars were wrong, They could not live. But although They no longer lived, They would never really die. They all lay in stone houses in Their great city of R'lyeh, preserved by the spells of mighty Cthulhu for a glorious surrection when the stars and the earth might once more be ready for Them. But at that time some force from outside must serve to liberate Their bodies. The spells that preserved them intact likewise prevented Them from making an initial move, and They could only lie awake in the dark and think whilst uncounted millions of years rolled by. They knew all that was occurring in the universe, for Their mode of speech was transmitted thought. Even now They talked in Their tombs. When, after infinities of chaos, the first men came, the Great Old Ones spoke to the sensitive among them by moulding their dreams; for only thus could Their language reach the fleshly minds of mammals.

Then, whispered Castro, those first men formed the cult around tall idols which the Great Ones shewed them; idols brought in dim eras from dark stars. That cult would never die till the stars came right again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth. The time would be easy to know, for then mankind would have become as the Great Old Ones; free and wild and beyond good and evil, with laws and morals thrown aside and all men shouting and killing and revelling in joy. Then the liberated Old Ones would teach them new ways to shout and kill and revel and enjoy themselves, and all the earth would flame with a holocaust of ecstasy and freedom. Meanwhile the cult, by appropriate rites, must keep alive the memory of those ancient ways and shadow forth the prophecy of their return.

In the elder time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in dreams, but then something happened. The great stone city R'lyeh, with its monoliths and sepulchres, had sunk beneath the waves; and the deep waters, full of the one primal mystery through which not even thought can pass, had cut off the spectral intercourse. But memory never died, and the high-priests said that the city would rise again when the stars were right. Then came out of the earth the black spirits of earth, mouldy and shadowy, and full of dim rumours picked up in caverns beneath forgotten sea-bottoms. But of them old Castro dared not speak much. He cut himself off hurriedly, and no amount of persuasion or subtlety could elicit more in this direction. The size of the Old Ones, too, he curiously declined to mention. Of the cult, he said that he thought the centre lay amid the pathless desert of Arabia, where Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched. It was not allied to the European witch-cult, and was virtually unknown beyond its members. No book had ever really hinted of it, though the deathless Chinamen said that there were double meanings in the Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred which the initiated might read as they chose, especially the much-discussed couplet:

That is not dead which can eternal lie,
And with strange aeons even death may die.

Legrasse, deeply impressed and not a little bewildered, had inquired in vain concerning the historic affiliations of the cult. Castro, apparently, had told the truth when he said that it was wholly secret. The authorities at Tulane University could shed no light upon either cult or image, and now the detective had come to the highest authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale of Professor Webb.

The feverish interest aroused at the meeting by Legrasse's tale, corroborated as it was by the statuette, is echoed in the subsequent correspondence of those who attended; although scant mention occurs in the formal publications of the society. Caution is the first care of those accustomed to face occasional charlatanry and imposture. Legrasse for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I viewed it not long ago. It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably akin to the dream-sculpture of young Wilcox.

That my uncle was excited by the tale of the sculptor I did not wonder, for what thoughts must arise upon hearing, after a knowledge of what Legrasse had learned of the cult, of a sensitive young man who had dreamed not only the figure and exact hieroglyphics of the swamp-found image and the Greenland devil tablet, but had come in his dreams upon at least three of the precise words of the formula uttered alike by Esquimaux diabolists and mongrel Louisianans?. Professor Angell's instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense. The dream-narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the most sensible conclusions. So, after thoroughly studying the manuscript again and correlating the theosophical and anthropological notes with the cult narrative of Legrasse, I made a trip to Providence to see the sculptor and give him the rebuke I thought proper for so boldly imposing upon a learned and aged man.

Wilcox still lived alone in the Fleur-de-Lys Building in Thomas Street, a hideous Victorian imitation of seventeenth century Breton Architecture which flaunts its stuccoed front amidst the lovely olonial houses on the ancient hill, and under the very shadow of the finest Georgian steeple in America, I found him at work in his rooms, and at once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius is indeed profound and authentic. He will, I believe, some time be heard from as one of the great decadents; for he has crystallised in clay and will one day mirror in marble those nightmares and phantasies which Arthur Machen evokes in prose, and Clark Ashton Smith makes visible in verse and in painting.

Dark, frail, and somewhat unkempt in aspect, he turned languidly at my knock and asked me my business without rising. Then I told him who I was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for the study. I did not enlarge his knowledge in this regard, but sought with some subtlety to draw him out. In a short time I became convinced ofhis absolute sincerity, for he spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake. They and their subconscious residuum had influenced his art profoundly, and he shewed me a morbid statue whose contours almost made me shake with the potency of its black suggestion. He could not recall having seen the original of this thing except in his own dream bas-relief, but the outlines had formed themselves insensibly under his hands. It was, no doubt, the giant shape he had raved of in delirium. That he really knew nothing of the hidden cult, save from what my uncle's relentless catechism had let fall, he soon made clear; and again I strove to think of some way in which he could possibly have received the weird impressions.

He talked of his dreams in a strangely poetic fashion; making me see with terrible vividness the damp Cyclopean city of slimy green stone - whose geometry, he oddly said, was all wrong - and hear with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calling from underground: "Cthulhu fhtagn", "Cthulhu fhtagn."

These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead Cthulhu's dream-vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply moved despite my rational beliefs. Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass of his equally weird reading and imagining. Later, by virtue of its sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams, in the bas-relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one. The youth was of a type, at once slightly affected and slightly ill-mannered, which I could never like, but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the success his talent promises.

The matter of the cult still remained to fascinate me, and at times I had visions of personal fame from researches into its origin and connexions. I visited New Orleans, talked with Legrasse and others of that old-time raiding-party, saw the frightful image, and even questioned such of the mongrel prisoners as still survived. Old Castro, unfortunately, had been dead for some years. What I now heard so graphically at first-hand, though it was really no more than a detailed confirmation of what my uncle had written, excited me afresh; for I felt sure that I was on the track of a very real, very secret, and very ancient religion whose discovery would make me an anthropologist of note. My attitude was still one of absolute materialism, as l wish it still were, and I discounted with almost inexplicable perversity the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by Professor Angell.

One thing I began to suspect, and which I now fear I know, is that my uncle's death was far from natural. He fell on a narrow hill street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign mongrels, after a careless push from a Negro sailor. I did not forget the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult-members in Louisiana, and would not be surprised to learn of secret methods and rites and beliefs. Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead. Might not the deeper inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come to sinister ears?. I think Professor Angell died because he knew too much, or because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
III. The Madness from the Sea

If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray piece of shelf-paper. It was nothing on which I would naturally have stumbled in the course of my daily round, for it was an old number of an Australian journal, the Sydney Bulletin for April 18, 1925. It had escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.

I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called the "Cthulhu Cult", and was visiting a learned friend in Paterson, New Jersey; the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note. Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones. It was the Sydney Bulletin I have mentioned, for my friend had wide affiliations in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half-tone cut of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had found in the swamp.

Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length. What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action. It read as follows:

MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA

Vigilant Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow. One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard. Tale of Desperate Battle and Deaths at Sea. Rescued Seaman Refuses Particulars of Strange Experience. Odd Idol Found in His Possession. Inquiry to Follow.

The Morrison Co.'s freighter Vigilant , bound from Valparaiso, arrived this morning at its wharf in Darling Harbour, having in tow the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht Alert of Dunedin, N.Z., which was sighted April 12th in S. Latitude 3421', W. Longitude 15217', with one living and one dead man aboard.

The Vigilant left Valparaiso March 25th, and on April 2nd was driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy storms and monster waves. On April 12th the derelict was sighted; and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain one survivor in a half-delirious condition and one man who had evidently been dead for more than a week. The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown origin, about foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of common pattern.

This man, after recovering his senses, told an exceedingly strange story of piracy and slaughter. He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two-masted schooner Emma of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th with a complement of eleven men. The Emma, he says, was delayed and thrown widely south of her course by the great storm of March 1st, and on March 22nd, in S. Latitude 4951' W. Longitude 12834', encountered the Alert, manned by a queer and evil-looking crew of Kanakas and half-castes. Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt. Collins refused; whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass cannon forming part of the yacht's equipment. The Emma 's men shewed fight, says the survivor, and though the schooner began to sink from shots beneath the water-line they managed to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all, the number being slightly superior, because of their particularly abhorrent and desperate though rather clumsy mode of fighting.

Three of the Emma's men, including Capt. Collins and First Mate Green, were killed; and the remaining eight under Second Mate Johansen proceeded to navigate the captured yacht, going ahead in their original direction to see if any reason for their ordering back had existed. The next day, it appears, they raised and landed on a small island, although none is known to exist in that part of the ocean; and six of the men somehow died ashore, though Johansen is queerly reticent about this part of his story, and speaks only of their falling into a rock chasm. Later, it seems, he and one companion boarded the yacht and tried to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd, From that time till his rescue on the 12th the man remembers little, and he does not even recall when William Briden, his companion, died. Briden's death reveals no apparent cause, and was probably due to excitement or exposure. Cable advices from Dunedin report that the Alert was well known there as an island trader, and bore an evil reputation along the waterfront, It was owned by a curious group of half-castes whose frequent meetings and night trips to the woods attracted no little curiosity; and it had set sail in great haste just after the storm and earth tremors of March 1st. Our Auckland correspondent gives the Emma and her crew an excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and worthy man. The admiralty will institute an inquiry on the whole matter beginning tomorrow, at which every effort will be made to induce Johansen to speak more freely than he has done hitherto.

This was all, together with the picture of the hellish image; but what a train of ideas it started in my mind! Here were new treasuries of data on the Cthulhu Cult, and evidence that it had strange interests at sea as well as on land. What motive prompted the hybrid crew to order back the Emma as they sailed about with their hideous idol? What was the unknown island on which six of the Emma 's crew had died, and about which the mate Johansen was so secretive? What had the vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the noxious cult in Dunedin? And most marvellous of all, what deep and more than natural linkage of dates was this which gave a malign and now undeniable significance to the various turns of events so carefully noted by my uncle?

March 1st - or February 28th according to the International Date Line - the earthquake and storm had come. From Dunedin the Alert and her noisome crew had darted eagerly forth as if imperiously summoned, and on the other side of the earth poets and artists had begun to dream of a strange, dank Cyclopean city whilst a young sculptor had moulded in his sleep the form of the dreaded Cthulhu. March 23rd the crew of the Emma landed on an unknown island and left six men dead; and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit, whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly into delirium! And what of this storm of April 2nd - the date on which all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from the bondage of strange fever? What of all this - and of those hints of old Castro about the sunken, star-born Old Ones and their coming reign; their faithful cult and their mastery of dreams? Was I tottering on the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear? If so, they must be horrors of the mind alone, for in some way the second of April had put a stop to whatever monstrous menace had begun its siege of mankind's soul.

That evening, after a day of hurried cabling and arranging, I bade my host adieu and took a train for San Francisco. In less than a month I was in Dunedin; where, however, I found that little was known of the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea-taverns. Waterfront scum was far too common for special mentnon; though there was vague talk about one inland trip these mongrels had made, during which faint drumming and red flame were noted on the distant hills. In Auckland I learned that Johansen had returned with yellow hair turned white after a perfunctory and inconclusive questioning at Sydney, and had thereafter sold his cottage in West Street and sailed with his wife to his old home in Oslo. Of his stirring experience he would tell his friends no more than he had told the admiralty officials, and all they could do was to give me his Oslo address.

After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and members of the vice-admiralty court. I saw the Alert , now sold and in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing from its non-committal bulk. The crouching image with its cuttlefish head, dragon body, scaly wings, and hieroglyphed pedestal, was preserved in the Museum at Hyde Park; and I studied it long and well, finding it a thing of balefully exquisite workmanship, and with the same utter mystery, terrible antiquity, and unearthly strangeness of material which I had noted in Legrasse's smaller specimen. Geologists, the curator told me, had found it a monstrous puzzle; for they vowed that the world held no rock like it. Then I thought with a shudder of what Old Castro had told Legrasse about the Old Ones; "They had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them."

Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo. Sailing for London, I reembarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg. Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries that the greater city masqueraded as "Christiana." I made the brief trip by taxicab, and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat and ancient building with plastered front. A sad-faced woman in black answered my summons, and I was stung th disappointment when she told me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more.

He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings sea in 1925 had broken him. He had told her no more than he told the public, but had left a long manuscript - of "technical matters" as he said - written in English, evidently in order to guard her from the peril of casual perusal. During a walk rough a narrow lane near the Gothenburg dock, a bundle of papers falling from an attic window had knocked him down. Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead. Physicians found no adequate cause the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a weakened constitution. I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave me till I, too, am at rest; "accidentally" or otherwise. Persuad-g the widow that my connexion with her husband's "technical matters" was sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away and began to read it on the London boat.

It was a simple, rambling thing - a naive sailor's effort at a post-facto diary - and strove to recall day by day that last awful voyage. I cannot attempt to transcribe it verbatim in all its cloudiness and redundance, but I will tell its gist enough to shew why the sound the water against the vessel's sides became so unendurable to me that I stopped my ears with cotton.

Johansen, thank God, did not know quite all, even though he saw the city and the Thing, but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space, and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream beneath the sea, known and favoured by a nightmare cult ready and eager to loose them upon the world whenever another earthquake shall heave their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.

Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice-admiralty. The Emma , in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February 20th, and had felt the full force of that earthquake-born tempest which must have heaved up from the sea-bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams. Once more under control, the ship was making good progress when held up by the Alert on March 22nd, and I could feel the mate's regret as he wrote of her bombardment and sinking. Of the swarthy cult-fiends on the Alert he speaks with significant horror. There was some peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction seem almost a duty, and Johansen shews ingenuous wonder at the charge of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the court of inquiry. Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude 479', W. Longitude l2343', come upon a coastline of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of earth's supreme terror - the nightmare corpse-city of R'lyeh, that was built in measureless aeons behind history by the vast, loathsome shapes that seeped down from the dark stars. There lay great Cthulhu and his hordes, hidden in green slimy vaults and sending out at last, after cycles incalculable, the thoughts that spread fear to the dreams of the sensitive and called imperiously to the faithfull to come on a pilgrimage of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!

I suppose that only a single mountain-top, the hideous monolith-crowned citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the waters. When I think of the extent of all that may be brooding down there I almost wish to kill myself forthwith. Johansen and his men were awed by the cosmic majesty of this dripping Babylon of elder daemons, and must have guessed without guidance that it was nothing of this or of any sane planet. Awe at the unbelievable size of the greenish stone blocks, at the dizzying height of the great carven monolith, and at the stupefying identity of the colossal statues and bas-reliefs with the queer image found in the shrine on the Alert, is poignantly visible in every line of the mates frightened description.

Without knowing what futurism is like, Johansen achieved something very close to it when he spoke of the city; for instead of describing any definite structure or building, he dwells only on broad impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces - surfaces too great to belong to anything right or proper for this earth, and impious with horrible images and hieroglyphs. I mention his talk about angles because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams. He said that the geometry of the dream-place he saw was abnormal, non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart from ours. Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing at the terrible reality.

Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud-bank on this monstrous Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which could have been no mortal staircase. The very sun of heaven seemed distorted when viewed through the polarising miasma welling out from this sea-soaked perversion, and twisted menace and suspense lurked leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second glance shewed concavity after the first shewed convexity.

Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen. Each would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was only half-heartedly that they searched - vainly, as it proved - for some portable souvenir to bear away.

It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith and shouted of what he had found. The rest followed him, and looked curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon bas-relief. It was, Johansen said, like a great barn-door; and they all felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like a trap-door or slantwise like an outside cellar-door. As Wilcox would have said, the geometry of the place was all wrong. One could not be sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal, hence the relative position of everything else seemed phantasmally variable.

Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result. Then Donovan felt over it delicately around the edge, pressing each point separately as he went. He climbed interminably along the grotesque stone moulding - that is, one would call it climbing if the thing was not after all horizontal - and the men wondered how any door in the universe could be so vast. Then, very softly and slowly, the acre-great lintel began to give inward at the top; and they saw that it was balauced

Donovan slid or somehow propelled himself down or along the jamb and rejoined his fellows, and everyone watched the queer recession of the monstrously carven portal. In this phantasy of prismatic distortion it moved anomalously in a diagonal way, so that all the rules of matter and perspective seemed upset.

The aperture was black with a darkness almost material. That tenebrousness was indeed a positive quality ; for it obscured such parts of the inner walls as ought to have been revealed, and actually burst forth like smoke from its aeon-long imprisonment, visibly darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky on flapping membraneous wings. The odour rising from the newly opened depths was intolerable, and at length the quick-eared Hawkins thought he heard a nasty, slopping sound down there. Everyone listened, and everyone was listening still when It lumbered slobberingly into sight and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness.

Poor Johansen's handwriting almost gave out when he wrote of this. Of the six men who never reached the ship, he thinks two perished of pure fright in that accursed instant. The Thing cannot be described - there is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy, such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order. A mountain walked or stumbled. God! What wonder that across the earth a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that telepathic instant? The Thing of the idols, the green, sticky spawn of the stars, had awaked to claim his own. The stars were right again, and what an age-old cult had failed to do by design, a band of innocent sailors had done by accident. After vigintillions of years great Cthulhu was loose again, and ravening for delight.

Three men were swept up by the flabby claws before anybody turned. God rest them, if there be any rest in the universe. They were Donovan, Guerrera, and Angstrom. Parker slipped as the other three were plunging frenziedly over endless vistas of green-crusted rock to the boat, and Johansen swears he was swallowed up by an angle of masonry which shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as if it were obtuse. So only Briden and Johansen reached the boat, and pulled desperately for the Alert as the mountainous monstrosity flopped down the slimy stones and hesitated, floundering at the edge of the water.

Steam had not been suffered to go down entirely, despite the departure of all hands for the shore; and it was the work of only a few moments of feverish rushing up and down between wheel and engines to get the Alert under way. Slowly, amidst the distorted horrors of that indescribable scene, she began to churn the lethal waters; whilst on the masonry of that charnel shore that was not of earth the titan Thing from the stars slavered and gibbered like Polypheme cursing the fleeing ship of Odysseus. Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising strokes of cosmic potency. Briden looked back and went mad, laughing shrilly as he kept on laughing at intervals till death found him one night in the cabin whilst Johansen was wandering deliriously.

But Johansen had not given out yet. Knowing that the Thing could surely overtake the Alert until steam was fully up, he resolved on a desperate chance; and, setting the engine for full speed, ran lightning-like on deck and reversed the wheel. There was a mighty eddying and foaming in the noisome brine, and as the steam mounted higher and higher the brave Norwegian drove his vessel head on against the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth like the stern of a daemon galleon. The awful squid-head with writhing feelers came nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but johansen drove on relentlessly. There was a bursting as of an exploding bladder, a slushy nastiness as of a cloven sunfish, a stench as of a thousand opened graves, and a sound that the chronicler could not put on paper. For an instant the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then there was only a venomous seething astern; where - God in heaven! - the scattered plasticity of that nameless sky-spawn was nebulously recombining in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened every second as the Alert gained impetus from its mounting steam.

That was all. After that Johansen only brooded over the idol in the cabin and attended to a few matters of food for himself and the laughing maniac by his side. He did not try to navigate after the first bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul. Then came the storm of April 2nd, and a gathering of the clouds about his consciousness. There is a sense of spectral whirling through liquid gulfs of infinity, of dizzying rides through reeling universes on a comets tail, and of hysterical plunges from the pit to the moon and from the moon back again to the pit, all livened by a cachinnating chorus of the distorted, hilarious elder gods and the green, bat-winged mocking imps of Tartarus.

Out of that dream came rescue-the Vigilant , the vice-admiralty court, the streets of Dunedin, and the long voyage back home to the old house by the Egeberg. He could not tell - they would think him mad. He would write of what he knew before death came, but his wife must not guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.

That was the document I read, and now I have placed it in the tin box beside the bas-relief and the papers of Professor Angell. With it shall go this record of mine - this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced together that which I hope may never be pieced together again. I have looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison to me. But I do not think my life will be long. As my uncle went, as poor Johansen went, so I shall go. I know too much, and the cult still lives.

Cthulhu still lives, too, I suppose, again in that chasm of stone which has shielded him since the sun was young. His accursed city is sunken once more, for the Vigilant sailed over the spot after the April storm; but his ministers on earth still bellow and prance and slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places. He must have been trapped by the sinking whilst within his black abyss, or else the world would by now be screaming with fright and frenzy. Who knows the end? What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise. Loathsomeness waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering cities of men. A time will come - but I must not and cannot think! Let me pray that, if I do not survive this manuscript, my executors may put caution before audacity and see that it meets no other eye.
