DragonLance Chronicles Volume 1
Dragons of Autumn Twilight
Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman
 
 
 
 
 
CANTICLE OF THE DRAGON
Hear the sage as his song descends like heaven's rain or tears,
and washes the years, the dust of the
many stories
from the High Tale of the Dragonlance.
For in ages deep, past memory and word,
in the first blush of the world
when the three moons rose from the
lap of the forest,
dragons, terrible and great,
made war on this world of Krynn.
 
Yet out of the darkness of dragons,
out of our cries for light
in the blank face of the black moon soaring,
a banked light flared in Solamnia,
a knight of truth and of power,
who called down the gods themselves
and forged the mighty Dragonlance,
piercing the soul
of dragonkind, driving the shade of
their wings
from the brightening shores of Krynn.
 
Thus Huma, Knight of Solamnia,
Lightbringer, First Lancer,
followed his light to the foot of the
Khalkist Mountains,
to the stone feet of the gods,
to the crouched silence of their temple.
He called down the Lancemakers, he took on
their unspeakable power to crush the
unspeakable evil,
to thrust the coiling darkness
back down the tunnel of the
dragon's throat.
 
Paladine, the Great God of Good,
shone at the side of Huma,
strengthening the lance of his strong right arm,
and Huma, ablaze in a thousand moons,
banished the Queen of Darkness,
banished the swarm of her shrieking hosts
back to the senseless kingdom of 
death, where their curses
swooped upon nothing and nothing
deep below the brightening land.
 
Thus ended in thunder the Age of Dreams 
and began the Age of Might,
When Istar, kingdom of light and
truth, arose in the east,
where minarets of white and gold
spired to the sun and to the sun's glory,
announcing the passing of evil,
and Istar, who mothered and cradled
the long summers of good,
shone like a meteor
in the white skies of the just.
 
Yet in the fullness of sunlight
the Kingpriest of Istar saw shadows:
At night he saw the trees as things
with daggers, the streams
blackened and thickened under the
silent moon.
He searched books for the paths of Huma,
for scrolls, signs, and spells
so that he, too, might summon the
gods, might find
their aid in his holy aims,
might purge the world of sin.
 
Then came the time of dark and death
as the gods turned from the world.
A mountain of fire crashed like a
comet through Istar,
the city split like a skull in the flames,
mountains burst from once-fertile valleys,
seas poured into the graves of mountains,
the deserts sighed on abandoned
floors of the seas,
the highways of Krynn erupted
and became the paths of the dead.
 
Thus began the Age of Despair.
The roads were tangled.
The winds and the sandstorms dwelt
in the husks of cities,
The plains and mountains became our home.
As the old gods lost their power,
we called to the blank sky
into the cold, dividing gray to the ears
of new gods.
The sky is calm, silent, unmoving.
We have yet to hear their answer.
 
 
The Old Man
Tika Waylan straightened her back with a sigh. flexing her shoulders to ease her 
cramped muscles. She tossed the soapy bar rag into the water pail and glanced 
around the empty room.
It was getting harder to keep up the old inn. There was a lot of love rubbed 
into the warm finish of the wood, but even love and tallow couldn't hide the 
cracks and splits in the well-used tables or prevent a customer from sitting on 
an occasional splinter. The Inn of the Last Home was not fancy, not like some 
she'd heard about in Haven. It was comfortable. The living tree in which it was 
built wrapped its ancient arms around it lovingly, while the walls and fixtures 
were crafted around the boughs of the tree with such care as to make it 
impossible to tell where nature's work left off and man's began. The bar seemed 
to ebb and flow like a polished wave around the living wood that supported it. 
The stained glass in the window panes cast welcoming flashes of vibrant color 
across the room.
Shadows were dwindling as noon approached. The Inn of the Last Home would soon 
be open for business. Tika looked around and smiled in satisfaction. The tables 
were clean and polished. All she had left to do was sweep the floor. She began 
to shove aside the heavy wooden benches, as Otik emerged from the kitchen, 
enveloped in fragrant steam.
"Should be another brisk day-for both the weather and business," he said, 
squeezing his stout body behind the bar. He began to set out mugs, whistling 
cheerfully.
"I'd like the business cooler and the weather warmer," said Tika, tugging at a 
bench. "I walked my feet off yesterday and got little thanks and less tips! Such 
a gloomy crowd! Everybody nervous, jumping at every sound. I dropped a mug last 
night and-I swear-Retark drew his sword!"
"Pah!" Otik snorted. "Retark's a Solace Seeker Guard. They're always nervous. 
You would be too if you had to work for Hederick, that fanat-"
"Watch it," Tika warned.
Otik shrugged. "Unless the High Theocrat can fly now, he won't be listening to 
us. I'd hear his boots on the stairs before he could hear me." But Tika noticed 
he lowered his voice as he continued. "The residents of Solace won't put up with 
much more, mark my words. People disappearing, being dragged off to who knows 
where. It's a sad time." He shook his head. Then he brightened. "But it's good 
for business."
"Until he closes us down," Tika said gloomily. She grabbed the broom and began 
sweeping briskly.
"Even theocrats need to fill their bellies and wash the fire and brimstone from 
their throats." Otik chuckled. "It must be thirsty work, haranguing people about 
the New Gods day in and day out-he's in here every night."
Tika stopped her sweeping and leaned against the bar.
"Otik," she said seriously, her voice subdued. "There's other talk, too-talk of 
war. Armies massing in the north. And there are these strange, hooded men in 
town, hanging around with the High Theocrat, asking questions."
Otik looked at the nineteen-year-old girl fondly, reached out, and patted her 
cheek. He'd been father to her, ever since her own had vanished so mysteriously. 
He tweaked her red curls.
"War. Pooh." He sniffed. "There's been talk of war ever since the Cataclysm. 
It's just talk, girl. Maybe the Theocrat makes it up just to keep people in 
line."
"I don't know." Tika frowned. "I-"
The door opened.
Both Tika and Otik started in alarm and turned to the door. They had not heard 
footsteps on the stairs, and that was uncanny! The Inn of the Last Home was 
built high in the branches of a mighty vallenwood tree, as was every other 
building in Solace, with the exception of the blacksmith shop. The townspeople 
had decided to take to the trees during the terror and chaos following the 
Cataclysm. And thus Solace became a tree town, one of the few truly beautiful 
wonders left on Krynn. Sturdy wooden bridge-walks connected the houses and 
businesses perched high above the ground where five hundred people went about 
their daily lives. The Inn of the Last Home was the largest building in Solace 
and stood forty feet off the ground. Stairs ran around the ancient vallenwood's 
gnarled trunk. As Otik had said, any visitor to the Inn would be heard 
approaching long before he was seen.
But neither Tika nor Otik had heard the old man.
He stood in the doorway, leaning on a worn oak staff, and peered around the Inn. 
The tattered hood of his plain, gray robe was drawn over his head, its shadow 
obscuring the features of his face except for his hawkish, shining eyes.
"Can I help you. Old One?" Tika asked the stranger, exchanging worried glances 
with Otik. Was this old man a Seeker spy?
"Eh?" The old man blinked. "You open?"
"Well . . " Tika hesitated.
"Certainly," Otik said, smiling broadly. "Come in. Gray-beard. Tika, find our 
guest a chair. He must be tired after that long climb."
"Climb?" Scratching his head, the old man glanced around the porch, then looked 
down to the ground below. "Oh, yes. Climb. A great many stairs .. ." He hobbled 
inside, then made a playful swipe at Tika with his staff. "Get along with your 
work, girl. I'm capable of finding my own chair."
Tika shrugged, reached for her broom, and began sweeping, keeping her eyes on 
the old man.
He stood in the center of the Inn, peering around as though confirming the 
location and position of each table and chair in the room. The common room was 
large and bean-shaped,
wrapping around the trunk of the vallenwood. The trees smaller limbs supported 
the floor and ceiling. He looked with particular interest at the fireplace, 
which stood about three-quarters of the way back into the room. The only 
stonework in the Inn, it was obviously crafted by dwarven hands to appear to be 
part of the tree, winding naturally through the branches above. A bin next to 
the side of the firepit was stacked high with cordwood and pine logs brought 
down from the high mountains. No resident of Solace would consider burning the 
wood of their own great trees. There was a back route out the kitchen; it was a 
forty-foot drop, but a few of Otik's customers found this setup very convenient. 
So did the old man.
He muttered satisfied comments to himself as his eyes went from one area to 
another. Then, to Tika's astonishment, he suddenly dropped his staff, hitched up 
the sleeves of his robes, and began rearranging the furniture!
Tika stopped sweeping and leaned on her broom. "What are you doing? That table's 
always been there!"
A long, narrow table stood in the center of the common room. The old man dragged 
it across the floor and shoved it up against the trunk of the huge vallenwood, 
right across from the firepit, then stepped back to admire his work.
"There," he grunted. "S'posed to be closer to the firepit. Now bring over two 
more chairs. Need six around here."
Tika turned to Otik. He seemed about to protest, but, at that moment, there was 
a flaring light from the kitchen. A scream from the cook indicated that the 
grease had caught fire again.
Otik hurried toward the swinging kitchen doors.
"He's harmless," he puffed as he passed Tika. "Let him do what he wants-within 
reason. Maybe he's throwing a party."
Tika sighed and took two chairs over to the old man as requested. She set them 
where he indicated.
"Now," the old man said, glancing around sharply. "Bring two more 
chairs-comfortable ones, mind you-over here. Put them next to the firepit, in 
this shadowy corner."
"'Tisn't shadowy," Tika protested. "It's sitting in full sunlight!"
"Ah"-the old man's eyes narrowed-"but it will be shadowy tonight, won't it? When 
the fire's lit ... "
"I-I suppose so ..." Tika faltered.
"Bring the chairs. That's a good girl. And I want one, right here." The old man 
gestured at a spot in front of the firepit. "For me."
"Are you giving a party. Old One?" Tika asked as she carriedmover the most 
comfortable, well-worn chair in the Inn.
"A party?" The thought seemed to strike the old man as funny. He chuckled. "Yes, 
girl. It will be a party such as the world of Krynn has not seen since before 
the Cataclysm! Be ready, Tika Waylan. Be ready!"
He patted her shoulder, tousled her hair, then turned and lowered himself, bones 
creaking, into the chair.
"A mug of ale," he ordered.
Tika went to pour the ale. It wasn't until she had brought the old man his drink 
and gone back to her sweeping that she stopped, wondering how he knew her name.
 
 
1
Old friends meet.
A rude interruption.
 
Flint Fireforge collapsed on a moss-covered boulder. His old dwarven bones had 
supported him long enough and were unwilling to continue without complaint.
"I should never have left," Flint grumbled, looking down into the valley below. 
He spoke aloud, though there was no sign of another living person about. Long 
years of solitary wandering had forced the dwarf into the habit of talking to 
himself. He slapped both hands on his knees. "And I'll be damned if I'm ever 
leaving again!" he announced vehemently.
Warmed by the afternoon sun, the boulder felt comfortable to the ancient dwarf, 
who had been walking all day in the chill autumn air. Flint relaxed and let the 
warmth seep into his bones-the warmth of the sun and the warmth of his thoughts. 
Because he was home.
He looked around him, his eyes lingering fondly over the familiar landscape. The 
mountainside below him formed one side of a high mountain bowl carpeted in 
autumn splendor. The vallenwood trees in the valley were ablaze in the season's 
colors, the brilliant reds and golds fading into the purple of the Kharolis 
peaks beyond. The flawless, azure sky among the trees was repeated in the waters 
of Crystalmir Lake. Thin columns of smoke curled among the treetops, the only 
sign of the presence of Solace. A soft, spreading haze blanketed the vale with 
the sweet aroma of home fires burning.
As Flint sat and rested, he pulled a block of wood and a gleaming dagger from 
his pack, his hands moving without conscious thought. Since time uncounted, his 
people had always had the need to shape the shapeless to their liking. He 
himself had been a metalsmith of some renown before his retirement some years 
earlier. He put the knife to the wood, then, his attention caught, Flint's hands 
remained idle as he watched the smoke drift up from the hidden chimneys below.
"My own home fire's gone out," Flint said softly. He shook himself, angry at 
feeling sentimental, and began slicing at the wood with a vengeance. He grumbled 
loudly, "My house has been sitting empty. Roof probably leaked, ruined the 
furniture. Stupid quest. Silliest thing I ever did. After one hundred and 
forty-eight years, I ought to have learned!"
"You'll never learn, dwarf," a distant voice answered him. "Not if you live to 
be two hundred and forty-eight!"
Dropping the wood, the dwarf's hand moved with calm assurance from the dagger to 
the handle of his axe as he peered down the path. The voice sounded familiar, 
the first familiar voice he'd heard in a long time. But he couldn't place it.
Flint squinted into the setting sun. He thought he saw the figure of a man 
striding up the path. Standing, Flint drew back into the shadow of a tall pine 
to see better. The man's walk was marked by an easy grace-an elvish grace, Flint 
would have said; yet the man's body had the thickness and tight muscles of a 
human, while the facial hair was definitely humankind's. All the dwarf could see 
of the man's face beneath a green hood was tan skin and a brownish-red beard. A 
longbow was slung over one shoulder and a sword hung at his left side. He was 
dressed in soft leather, carefully tooled in the intricate designs the elves 
loved. But no elf in the world of Krynn could grow a beard no elf, but . . .
"Tanis?" said Flint hesitantly as the man neared.
"The same." The newcomer's bearded face split in a wide grin. He held open his 
arms and, before the dwarf could stop him, engulfed Flint in a hug that lifted 
him off the ground. The dwarf clasped his old friend close for a brief instant, 
then, remembering his dignity, squirmed and freed himself from the half-elf's 
embrace.
"Well, you've learned no manners in five years," the dwarf grumbled. "Still no 
respect for my age or my station. Hoisting me around like a sack of potatoes." 
Flint peered down the road. "I hope no one who knows us saw us."
"I doubt there are many who'd remember us," Tanis said, his eyes studying his 
stocky friend fondly. "Time doesn't pass for you and me, old dwarf, as it does 
for humans. Five years is a long time for them, a few moments for us." Then he 
smiled. "You haven't changed."
"The same can't be said of others." Flint sat back down on the stone and began 
to carve once more. He scowled up at Tanis. "Why the beard? You were ugly 
enough."
Tanis scratched his chin. "I have been in lands that were not friendly to those 
of elven blood. The beard-a gift from my human father," he said with bitter 
irony, "did much to hide my heritage."
Flint grunted. He knew that wasn't the complete truth. Although the half-elf 
abhorred killing, Tanis would not be one to hide from a fight behind a beard. 
Wood chips flew.
"I have been in lands that were not friendly to anyone of any kind of blood." 
Flint turned the wood in his hand, examining it. "But we're home now. All that's 
behind us."
"Not from what I've heard," Tanis said, drawing his hood up over his face again 
to keep the sun out of his eyes. "The Highseekers in Haven appointed a man named 
Hederick to govern as High Theocrat in Solace, and he's turned the town into a 
hotbed of fanaticism with his new religion."
Tanis and the dwarf both turned and looked down into the quiet valley. Lights 
began to wink on, making the homes in the trees visible among the vallenwood. 
The night air was still and calm and sweet, tinged with the smell of wood smoke 
from the home fires. Now and again they could hear the faint sound of a mother 
calling her children to dinner.
"I've heard of no evil in Solace," Flint said quietly.
"Religious persecution . . . inquisitions . . ." Tanis's voice sounded ominous 
coming from the depths of his hood. It was deeper, more somber than Flint 
remembered. The dwarf frowned. His friend had changed in five years. And elves 
never change! But then Tanis was only half-elven-a child of violence, his mother 
having been raped by a human warrior during one of the many wars that had 
divided the different races of Krynn in the chaotic years following the 
Cataclysm.
"Inquisitions! That's only for those who defy the new High Theocrat, according 
to rumor." Flint snorted. "I don't believe in the Seeker gods-never did-but I 
don't parade my beliefs in the street. Keep quiet and they'll let you 
alone-that's my motto. The Highseekers in Haven are still wise and virtuous men. 
It's just this one rotten apple in Solace that's spoiling the whole barrel. By 
the way, did you find what you sought?"
"Some sign of the ancient, true gods?" Tanis asked. "Or peace of mind? I went 
seeking both. Which did you mean?"
"Well, I assume one would go with the other," Flint growled. He turned the piece 
of wood in his hands, still not satisfied with its proportions. "Are we going to 
stand here all night, smelling the cooking fires? Or are we going to go into 
town and get some dinner?"
"Go." Tanis waved. The two started down the path together, Tanis's long strides 
forcing the dwarf to take two steps to his one. Though it had been many years 
since they had journeyed together, Tanis unconsciously slowed his pace, while 
Flint unconsciously quickened his.
"So you found nothing?" Flint pursued.
"Nothing," Tanis replied. "As we discovered long ago, the only clerics and 
priests in this world serve false gods. I heard tales of healing, but it was all 
trickery and magic. Fortunately, our friend Raistlin taught me what to watch-"
"Raistlin!" Flint puffed. "That pasty-faced, skinny magician. He's more than 
half charlatan himself. Always sniveling and whining and poking his nose where 
it doesn't belong. If it weren't for his twin brother looking after him, someone 
would've put an end to his magic long ago."
Tanis was glad his beard hid his smile. "I think the young man was a better 
magician than you give him credit for," he said. "And, you must admit, he worked 
long and tirelessly to help those who were taken in by the fake clerics-as I 
did." He sighed.
"For which you got little thanks, no doubt," the dwarf muttered.
"Very little," Tanis said. "People want to believe in something-even if, deep 
inside, they know it is false. But what of you? How was your journey to your 
homelands?"
Flint stumped along without answering, his face grim. Finally he muttered, "I 
should never have gone," and glanced up at Tanis, his eyes-barely visible 
through the thick, overhanging, white eyebrows- informing the half-elf that this 
turn of the conversation was not welcome. Tanis saw the look but asked his 
questions anyhow.
"What of the dwarven clerics? The stories we heard?"
"Not true. The clerics vanished three hundred years ago during the Cataclysm. So 
say the elders."
"Much like the elves," Tanis mused.
"I saw-"
"Hsst!" Tanis held out a warning hand.
Flint came to a dead stop. "What?" he whispered.
Tanis motioned. "Over in that grove."
Flint peered toward the trees, at the same time reaching for the battle-axe that 
was strapped behind his back.
The red rays of the setting sun glistened briefly on a piece of metal flashing 
among the trees. Tanis saw it once, lost it, then saw it again. At that moment, 
though, the sun sank, leaving the sky glowing a rich violet, and causing night's 
shadows to creep through the forest trees.
Flint squinted into the gloom. "I don't see anything."
"I did," Tanis said. He kept staring at the place where he'd seen the metal, and 
gradually his elvensight began to detect the warm red aura cast by all living 
beings but visible only to the elves. "Who goes there?" Tanis called.
The only answer for long moments was an eerie sound that made the hair rise on 
the half-elf's neck. It was a hollow, whirring sound that started out low, then 
grew higher and higher and eventually attained a high-pitched, screaming whine. 
Soaring with it, came a voice. "Elven wanderer, turn from your course and leave 
the dwarf behind. We are the spirits of those poor souls Flint Fireforge left on 
the barroom floor. Did we die in combat?" The spirit voice soared to new 
heights, as did the whining, whirring sound accompanying it. "No! We died of 
shame, cursed by the ghost of the grape for not being able to outdrink a hill 
dwarf."
Flint's beard was quivering with rage, and Tanis, bursting out laughing, was 
forced to grab the angry dwarf's shoulder to keep him from charging headlong 
into the brush.
"Damn the eyes of the elves!" The spectral voice turned merry. "And damn the 
beards of the dwarves!"
"Wouldn't you know it?" Flint groaned. "Tasslehoff Burrfoot!"
There was a faint rustle in the underbrush, then a small figure stood on the 
path. It was a kender, one of a race of people considered by many on Krynn to be 
as much a nuisance as mosquitoes. Small-boned, the kender rarely grew over four 
feet tall. This particular kender was about Flint's height, but his slight build 
and perpetually childlike face made him seem smaller. He wore bright blue 
leggings that stood out in sharp contrast to his furred vest and plain, 
home-spun tunic. His brown eyes glinted with mischief and fun; his smile seemed 
to reach to the tips of his pointed ears. He dipped his head in a mock bow, 
allowing a long tassle of brown hair-his pride and joy-to flip forward over his 
nose. Then he straightened up, laughing. The metallic gleam Tanis's quick eyes 
had spotted came from the buckles of one of the numerous packs strapped around 
his shoulders and waist.
Tas grinned up at them, leaning on his hoopak staff. It was this staff that had 
created the eerie noise. Tanis should have recognized it at once, having seen 
the kender scare off many would-be attackers by whirling his staff in the air, 
producing that screaming whine. A kender invention, the hoopak's bottom end was 
copper-clad and sharply pointed; the top end was forked and held a leather 
sling. The staff itself was made out of a single piece of supple willow wood. 
Although scorned by every other race on Krynn, the hoopak was more than a useful 
tool or weapon to a kender-it was his symbol. "New roads demand a hoopak," was a 
popular saying among kenderkind. It was always followed immediately by another 
of their sayings:
"No road is ever old."
Tasslehoff suddenly ran forward, his arms open wide.
"Flint!" The kender threw his arms around the dwarf and hugged him. Flint, 
embarrassed, returned the embrace reluctantly, then quickly stepped back. 
Tasslehoff grinned, then looked up at the half-elf.
"Who's this?" He gasped. "Tanis! I didn't recognize you with a beard!" He held 
out his short arms.
"No, thanks," said Tanis, grinning. He waved the kender away. "I want to keep my 
money pouch."
With a sudden look of alarm, Flint felt under his tunic. "You rascal!" He roared 
and leaped at the kender, who was doubled over, laughing. The two went down in 
the dust.
Tanis, chuckling, started to pull Flint off the kender. Then he stopped and 
turned in alarm. Too late, he heard the silvery jingle of harness and bridle and 
the whinny of a horse. The half-elf put his hand on the hilt of his sword, but 
he had already lost any advantage he might have gained through alertness.
Swearing under his breath, Tanis could do nothing but stand and stare at the 
figure emerging from the shadows. It was seated on a small, furry-legged pony 
that walked with its head down as if it were ashamed of its rider. Gray, mottled 
skin sagged into folds about the rider's face. Two pig-pink eyes stared out at 
them from beneath a military-looking helmet. Its fat. flabby body leaked out 
between pieces of flashy, pretentious armor.
A peculiar odor hit Tanis, and he wrinkled his nose in disgust. "Hobgoblin!" his 
brain registered. He loosened his sword and kicked at Flint, but at that moment 
the dwarf gave a tremendous sneeze and sat up on the kender.
"Horse!" said Flint, sneezing again.
"Behind you," Tanis replied quietly.
Flint, hearing the warning note in his friend's voice, scrarnbled to his feet. 
Tasslehoff quickly did the same.
The hobgoblin sat astride the pony, watching them with a sneering, supercilious 
look on his flat face. His pink eyes reflected the last lingering traces of 
sunlight.
"You see, boys," the hobgoblin stated, speaking the Common Tongue with a thick 
accent, "what fools we are dealing with here in Solace."
There was gritty laughter from the trees behind the hobgoblin. Five goblin 
guards, dressed in crude uniforms, came out on foot. They took up positions on 
either side of their leader's horse.
"Now . . ." The hobgoblin leaned over his saddle. Tanis watched with a kind of 
horrible fascination as the creature's huge belly completely engulfed the 
pommel. "I am Fewmaster Toede, leader of the forces that are keeping Solace 
protected from undesirable elements. You have no right to be walking in the city 
limits after dark. You are under arrest." Fewmaster Toede leaned down to speak 
to a goblin near him. "Bring me the blue crystal staff, if you find it on them," 
he said in the croaking goblin tongue. Tanis, Flint, and Tasslehoff all looked 
at each other questioningly. Each of them could speak some goblin-Tas better 
than the others. Had they heard right? A blue crystal staff?
"If they resist," added Fewmaster Toede, switching back to Common for grand 
effect, "kill them."
With that, he yanked on the reins, flicked his mount with a riding crop, and 
galloped off down the path toward town.
"Goblins! In Solace! This new Theocrat has much to answer for!" Flint spat. 
Reaching up, he swung his battle-axe from its holder on his back and planted his 
feet firmly on the path, rocking back and forth until he felt himself balanced. 
"Very well," he announced. "Come on."
"I advise you to retreat," Tanis said, throwing his cloak over one shoulder and 
drawing his sword. "We have had a long journey. We are hungry and tired and late 
for a meeting with friends we have not seen in a long time. We have no intention 
of being arrested."
"Or of being killed," added Tasslehoff. He had drawn no weapon but stood staring 
at the goblins with interest.
A bit taken aback, the goblins glanced at each other nervously. One cast a 
baleful look down the road where his leader had vanished. The goblins were 
accustomed to bullying peddlers and farmers traveling to the small town-not to 
challenging armed and obviously skilled fighters. But their hatred of the other 
races of Krynn was long-standing. They drew their long, curved blades.
Flint strode forward, his hands getting a firm grip on the axe handle. "There's 
only one creature I hate worse than a gully dwarf," he muttered, "and that's a 
goblin!"
The goblin dove at Flint, hoping to knock him down. Flint swung his axe with 
deadly accuracy and timing. A goblin head rolled into the dust, the body 
crashing to the ground.
"What are you slime doing in Solace?" Tanis asked, meeting the clumsy stab of 
another goblin skillfully. Their swords crossed and held for a moment, then 
Tanis shoved the goblin backward. "Do you work for the High Theocrat?"
"Theocrat?" The goblin gurgled with laughter. Swinging its weapon wildly, it ran 
at Tanis. "That fool? Our Fewmaster works for the-ugh!" The creature impaled 
itself on Tanis's sword. It groaned, then slid off onto the ground.
"Damn!" Tanis swore and stared at the dead goblin in frustration. "The clumsy 
idiot! I didn't want to kill it-just find out who hired it."
"You'll find out who hired us-sooner than you'd like!" snarled another goblin, 
rushing at the distracted half-elf. Tanis turned quickly and disarmed the 
creature. He kicked it in its stomach and the goblin crumpled over.
Another goblin sprang at Flint before the dwarf had time to recover from his 
lethal swing. He staggered backward, trying to regain his balance.
Then Tasslehoff's shrill voice rang out. "These scum will fight for anyone, 
Tanis. Throw them some dog meat once in a while and they're yours forev-"
"Dog meat!" The goblin croaked and turned from Flint in a rage. "How about 
kender meat, you little squeaker!" The goblin flapped toward the apparently 
unarmed kender, its purplish red hands grasping for his neck. Tas, without ever 
losing the innocent, childlike expression on his face, reached into his fleecy 
vest, whipped out a dagger, and threw it-all in one motion. The goblin clutched 
his chest and fell with a groan.
There was a sound of flapping feet as the remaining goblin fled. The battle was 
over.
Tanis sheathed his sword, grimacing in disgust at the stinking bodies; the smell 
reminded him of rotting fish. Flint wiped black goblin blood from his axe blade. 
Tas stared mournfully at the body of the goblin he killed. It had fallen 
face-down, his dagger buried underneath.
"I'll get it for you," Tanis offered, preparing to roll the body over.
"No." Tas made a face. "I don't want it back. You can never get rid of the 
smell, you know."
Tanis nodded. Flint fastened his axe in its carrier again, and the three 
continued on down the path.
The lights of Solace grew brighter as darkness deepened. The smell of the wood 
smoke on the chill night air brought thoughts of food and warmth-and safety. The 
companions hurried their steps. They did not speak for a long time, each hearing 
Flint's words echo in his mind: Goblins. In Solace.
Finally, however, the irrepressible kender giggled.
"Besides," he said, "that dagger was Flint's!"
 
 
2
Return to the Inn.
A shock. The oath is broken.
 
Nearly everyone in Solace managed to drop into the Inn of the Last Home sometime 
during the evening hours these days. People felt safer in crowds.
Solace had long been a crossroads for travelers. They came northeast from Haven, 
the Seeker capital. They came from the elven kingdom of Qualinesti to the south. 
Sometimes they came from the east, across the barren Plains of Abanasinia. 
Throughout the civilized world, the Inn of the Last Home was known as a 
traveler's refuge and center for news. It was to the Inn that the three friends 
turned their steps.
The huge, convoluted trunk rose through the surrounding trees. Against the 
shadow of the vallenwood, the colored panes of the Inn's stained-glass windows 
glittered brightly, and sounds of life drifted down from the windows. Lanterns, 
hanging from the tree limbs, lit the winding stairway. Though the autumn night 
was settling chill amid the vallenwoods of Solace, the travelers felt the 
companionship and memories warm the soul and wash away the aches and sorrows of 
the road.
The Inn was so crowded on this night that the three were continually forced to 
stand aside on the stairs to let men, women, and children pass them. Tanis 
noticed that people glanced at him and his companions with suspicion-not with 
the welcoming looks they would have given five years ago.
Tanis's face grew grim. This was not the homecoming he had dreamed about. Never 
in the fifty years he had lived in Solace had he felt such tension. The rumors 
he had heard about the malignant corruption of the Seekers must be true.
Five years ago, the men calling themselves "seekers" ("we seek the new gods") 
had been a loose-knit organization of clerics practicing their new religion in 
the towns of Haven, Solace, and Gateway. These clerics had been misguided, Tanis 
believed, but at least they had been honest and sincere. In the intervening 
years, however, the clerics had gained more and more status as their religion 
flourished. Soon they became concerned not so much with glory in the afterlife 
as with power on Krynn. They took over the governing of the towns with the 
people's blessing.
A touch on Tanis's arm interrupted his thoughts. He turned and saw Flint 
silently pointing below. Looking down, Tanis saw guards marching past, walking 
in parties of four. Armed to the teeth, they strutted with an air of 
self-importance.
"At least they're human-not goblin," Tas said.
"That goblin sneered when I mentioned the High Theocrat," Tanis mused. "As if 
they were working for someone else. I wonder what's going on."
"Maybe our friends will know," Flint said.
"If they're here," Tasslehoff added. "A lot could have happened in five years."
"They'll be here-if they're alive," Flint added in an undertone. "It was a 
sacred oath we took-to meet again after five years had passed and report what we 
had found out about the evil spreading in the world. To think we should come 
home and find evil on our very doorsteps!"
"Hush! Shss!" Several passersby looked so alarmed at the dwarfs words that Tanis 
shook his head.
"Better not talk about it here," the half-elf advised.
Reaching the top of the stairs, Tas flung the door open wide.
A wave of light, noise, heat, and the familiar smell of Otik's spicy potatoes 
hit them full in the face. It engulfed them and washed over them soothingly. 
Otik, standing behind the bar as they always remembered him, hadn't changed, 
except maybe to grow stouter. The Inn didn't appear to have changed either, 
except to grow more comfortable.
Tasslehoff, his quick kender eyes sweeping the crowd, gave a yell and pointed 
across the room. Something else hadn't changed either-the firelight gleaming on 
a brightly polished, winged dragon helm.
"Who is it?" asked Flint, straining to see.
"Caramon," Tanis replied.
"Then Raistlin'll be here, too," Flint said without a great deal of warmth in 
his voice.
Tasslehoff was already sliding through the muttering knots of people, his small, 
lithe body barely noticed by those he passed. Tanis hoped fervently the kender 
wasn't "acquiring" any objects from the Inn's customers. Not that he stole 
things- Tasslehoff would have been deeply hurt if anyone had accused him of 
theft. But the kender had an insatiable curiosity, and various interesting items 
belonging to other people had a way of falling into Tas's possession. The last 
thing Tanis wanted tonight was trouble. He made a mental note to have a private 
word with the kender.
The half-elf and the dwarf made their way through the crowd with less ease than 
their little friend. Nearly every chair was taken, every table filled. Those who 
could not find room to sit down were standing, talking in low voices. People 
looked at Tanis and Flint darkly, suspiciously, or curiously. No one greeted 
Flint, although there were several who had been long-standing customers of the 
dwarven metalsmith. The people of Solace had their own problems, and it was 
apparent that Tanis and Flint were now considered outsiders.
A roar sounded from across the room, from the table where the dragon helm lay 
reflecting light from the firepit. Tanis's grim face relaxed into a smile as he 
saw the giant Caramon lift little Tas off the floor in a bear hug.
Flint, wading through a sea of belt buckles, could only imagine the sight as he 
listened to Caramon's booming voice answering Tasslehoff's piping greeting. 
"Caramon better look to his purse," Flint grumbled. "Or count his teeth."
The dwarf and the half-elf finally broke through the press of people in front of 
the long bar. The table where Caramon sat was shoved back against the tree 
trunk. In fact, it was sitting in an odd position. Tanis wondered why Otik had 
moved it when everything else remained exactly the same. But the thought was 
crushed out of him, for it was his turn to receive the big warrior's 
affectionate greeting. Tanis hastily removed the longbow and quiver of arrows 
from his back before Caramon hugged them into kindling.
"My friend!" Caramon's eyes were wet. He seemed about to say more but was 
overcome by emotion. Tanis was also momentarily unable to talk, but this was 
because he'd had his breath sqeezed out of him by Caramon's muscular arms.
"Where's Raistlin?" he asked when he could talk. The twins were never far apart.
"There." Caramon nodded toward the end of the table. Then he frowned. "He's 
changed," the warrior warned Tanis.
The half-elf looked into a corner formed by an irregularity of the vallenwood 
tree. The corner was shrouded in shadow, and for a moment he couldn't see 
anything after the glare of the fire-light. Then he saw a slight figure sitting 
huddled in red robes, even in the heat of the nearby fire. The figure had a hood 
cast over its face.
Tanis felt a sudden reluctance to speak to the young mage alone, but Tasslehoff 
had flitted away to find the barmaid and Flint was being lifted off his feet by 
Caramon. Tanis moved to the end of the table.
"Raistlin?" he said, feeling a strange sense of foreboding.
The robed figure looked up. "Tanis?" the man whispered as he slowly pulled the 
hood off his head.
The half-elf sucked in his breath and fell back a pace. He stared in horror.
The face that turned toward him from the shadows was a face out of a nightmare. 
Changed, Caramon had said! Tanis shuddered. "Change" wasn't the word! The mage's 
white skin had turned a golden color. It glistened in the firelight with a 
faintly metallic quality, looking like a gruesome mask. The flesh had melted 
from the face, leaving the cheekbones outlined in dreadful shadows. The lips 
were pulled tight in a dark straight line. But it was the man's eyes that 
arrested Tanis and held him pinned in their terrible gaze. For the eyes were no 
longer the eyes of any living human Tanis had ever seen. The black pupils were 
now the shape of hourglasses! The pale blue irises Tanis remembered now 
glittered gold!
"I see my appearance startles you," Raistlin whispered. There was a faint 
suggestion of a smile on his thin lips.
Sitting down across from the young man, Tanis swallowed.
"In the name of the true gods, Raistlin-"
Flint plopped into a seat next to Tanis. "I've been hoisted into the air more 
times today than-.Reorx" Flint's eyes widened.
"What evil's at work here? Are you cursed?" The dwarf gasped, staring at 
Raistlin.
Caramon took a seat next to his brother. He picked up his mug of ale and glanced 
at Raistlin. "Will you tell them, Raist?" he said in a low voice.
"Yes," Raistlin said, drawing the word out into a hiss that made Tanis shiver. 
The young man spoke in a soft, wheezing voice, barely above a whisper, as if it 
were all he could do to force the words out of his body His long, nervous hands, 
which were the same golden color as his face, toyed absently with uneaten food 
on a plate before him.
"Do you remember when we parted five years ago?" Raistlin began. "My brother and 
I planned a journey so secret I could not even tell you, my dear friends, where 
we were going."
There was a faint note of sarcasm in the gentle voice. Tanis bit his lip. 
Raistlin had never-in his entire life-had any "dear friends."
"I had been selected by Par-Salian, the head of my order, to take the Test," 
Raistlin continued.
"The Test!" Tanis repeated, stunned. "But you were too young. What-twenty? The 
Test is given only to mages who have studied years and years-"
"You can imagine my pride," Raistlin said coldly, irritated at the interruption. 
"My brother and I traveled to the secret place-the fabled Towers of High 
Sorcery. And there I passed the Test." The mage's voice sank. "And there I 
nearly died!"
Caramon choked, obviously in the grip of some strong emotion. "It was awful," 
the big man began, his voice shaking. "I found him in that horrible place, blood 
flowing from his mouth, dying! I picked him up and-"
"Enough, brother!" Raistlin's soft voice flicked like a whip. Caramon flinched. 
Tanis saw the young mage's golden eyes narrow, the thin hands clench. Caramon 
fell silent and gulped down his ale, glancing nervously at his brother. There 
was clearly a new strain, a tension between the twins.
Raistlin drew a deep breath and continued. "When I awoke," the mage said, "my 
skin had turned this color-a mark of my suffering. My body and my health are 
irretrievably shattered. And my eyes! I see through hourglass pupils and 
therefore I see time-as it affects all things. Even as I look at you now, 
Tanis," the mage whispered, "I see you dying, slowly, by inches. And so I see 
every living thing."
Raistlin's thin, clawlike hand gripped Tanis's arm. The half-elf shivered at the 
cold touch and started to pull away, but the golden eyes and the cold hand held 
him fast.
The mage leaned forward, his eyes glowing feverishly. "But I have power now!" he 
whispered. "Par-Salian told me the day would come when my strength would shape 
the world! I have power and"-he gestured-"the Staff of Magius."
Tanis looked to see a staff leaning against the vallenwood trunk within easy 
reach of Raistlin's hand. It was a plain wooden staff. A ball of bright crystal, 
clutched in a disembodied golden claw carved to resemble the talon of a dragon, 
gleamed at the top.
"Was it worth it?" Tanis asked quietly.
Raistlin stared at him, then his lips parted in a caricature of a grin. He 
withdrew his hand from Tanis's arm and folded his arms in the sleeves of his 
robe. "Of course!" the mage hissed.
"Power is what I have long sought-and still seek." He leaned back and his thin 
figure melted into the dark shadow until all Tanis could see were the golden 
eyes, glittering in the firelight.
"Ale," said Flint, clearing his throat and licking his lips as if he would wash 
a bad taste out of his mouth. "Where is that kender? I suppose he stole the 
barmaid-"
"Here we are," cried Tas's cheerful voice. A tall, young, redhaired girl loomed 
behind him, carrying a tray of mugs.
Caramon grinned. "Now, Tanis," he boomed, "guess who this is. You, too, Flint. 
If you win, I'll buy this round."
Glad to take his mind off Raistlin's dark tale, Tanis stared at the laughing 
girl. Red hair curled around her face, her green eyes danced with fun, freckles 
were lightly smattered across her nose and cheeks. Tanis seemed to remember the 
eyes, but beyond that he was blank.
"I give up," he said. "But then, to elves humans seem to change so rapidly that 
we lose track. I am one hundred and two, yet seem no more than thirty to you. 
And to me those hundred years seem as thirty. This young woman must have been a 
child when we left."
"I was fourteen." The girl laughed and set the tray down on the table. "And 
Caramon used to say I was so ugly my father would have to pay someone to marry 
me."
"Tika!" Flint slammed his fist on the table. "You're buying, you great oaf!" He 
pointed at Caramon.
"No fair!" The giant laughed. "She gave you a clue."
"Well, the years have proved him wrong," Tanis said, smiling. "I've traveled 
many roads and you're one of the prettiest girls I've seen on Krynn."
Tika blushed with pleasure. Then her face darkened. "By the way, Tanis"-she 
reached in her pocket and drew forth a cylindrical object-"this arrived for you 
today. Under strange circumstances."
Tanis frowned and reached for the object. It was a small scrollcase made of 
black, highly polished wood. He slowly removed a thin piece of parchment and 
unrolled it. His heart thudded painfully at sight of the bold, black 
handwriting.
"It's from Kitiara," he said finally, knowing his voice sounded strained and 
unnatural. "She's not coming."
There was a moment's silence. "That's done it," Flint said. "The circle is 
broken, the oath denied. Bad luck." He shook his head. "Bad luck."
 
 
3
Knight of Solamnia.
The old man's party.
 
Raistlin leaned forward. He and Caramon exchanged glances as thoughts passed 
wordlessly between them. It was a rare moment, for only great personal 
difficulty or danger ever made the twins' close kinship apparent. Kitiara was 
their older half-sister.
"Kitiara would not break her oath unless another, stronger oath bound her." 
Raistlin spoke their thoughts aloud.
"What does she say?" Caramon asked.
Tanis hesitated, then licked his dry lips. "Her duties with her new lord keep 
her busy. She sends her regrets and best wishes to all of us and her love-" 
Tanis felt his throat constrict. He coughed. "Her love to her brothers and to-" 
He paused, then foiled up the parchment. "That's all."
"Love to who?" Tasslehoff asked brightly. "Ouch!" He glared at Flint who had 
trod upon his foot. The kender saw Tanis flush. "Oh," he said, feeling stupid.
"Do you know who she means?" Tanis asked the brothers.
"What new lord does she talk about?"
"Who knows with Kitiara?" Raistlin shrugged his thin shoulders. "The last time 
we saw her was here, in the Inn, five years ago. She was going north with Sturm. 
We have not heard from her since. As for the new lord, I'd say we now know why 
she broke her oath to us; she has sworn allegiance to another. She is, after 
all, a mercenary."
"Yes," Tanis admitted. He slipped the scroll back into its case and looked up at 
Tika. "You say this arrived under strange circumstances? Tell me."
"A man brought it in, late this morning. At least I think it was a man." Tika 
shivered. "He was wrapped head to foot in clothing of every description. I 
couldn't even see his face. His voice was hissing-like and he spoke with a 
strange accent. 'Deliver this to one Tanis Half-Elven' he said. I told him you 
weren't here and hadn't been here for several years. 'He will be' the man said. 
Then he left." Tika shrugged. "That's all I can tell you. The old man over there 
saw him." She gestured to an old man sitting in a chair before the fire. "You 
might ask him if he noticed anything else."
Tanis turned to look at an old man who was telling stories to a dreamy-eyed 
child staring into the flames. Flint touched his arm.
"Here comes one who can tell you more," the dwarf said.
"Sturm!" Tanis said warmly, turning toward the door.
Everyone except Raistlin turned. The mage relapsed into the shadows once more.
At the door stood a straight-backed figure dressed in full plate armor and chain 
mail, the symbol of the Order of the Rose on the breastplate. A great many 
people in the Inn turned to stare, scowling. The man was a Solamnic Knight, and 
the Knights of Solamnia had fallen into ill-repute up north. Rumors of their 
corruption had spread even this far south. The few who recognized Stunn as a 
long-time former resident of Solace shrugged and turned back to their drinking. 
Those who did not, continued to stare. In these days of peace, it was unusual 
enough to see a knight in full armor enter the Inn. But it was still more 
unusual to see a knight in full armor that dated back practically to the 
Cataclysm!
Sturm received the stares as accolades due his rank. He carefully smoothed his 
great, thick moustaches, which, being the ages-old symbol of the Knights, were 
as obsolete as his armor. He bore the trappings of the Solamnic Knights with 
unquestioned pride-and he had the sword-arm and the skill to defend that pride. 
Although people in the Inn stared, no one -after one look at the knight's calm, 
cold eyes-dared snicker or make a derogatory comment.
The knight held the door open for a tall man and a woman heavily cloaked in 
furs. The woman must have spoken a word of thanks to Sturm, for he bowed to her 
in a courtly, old- fashioned manner long dead in the modern world.
"Look at that." Caramon shook his head in admiration. "The gallant knight helps 
the lady fair. I wonder where he dragged up those two?"
"They're barbarians from the Plains," said Tas, standing on a chair, waving his 
arms to his friend. "That's the dress of the Que-shu tribe."
Apparently the two Plainsmen declined any offer Sturm made, for the knight bowed 
again and left them. He walked across the crowded Inn with a proud and noble 
air, such as he might have worn walking forward to be knighted by the king.
Tanis rose to his feet. Sturm came to him first and threw his arms around his 
friend. Tanis gripped him tightly, feeling the knight's strong, sinewy arms 
clasp him in affection. Then the two stood back to look at each other for a 
brief moment.
Sturm hasn't changed, Tanis thought, except that there are more lines around the 
sad eyes, more gray in the brown hair. The cloak is a little more frayed. There 
are a few more dents in the ancient armor. But the knight's flowing 
moustaches-his pride and joy-were as long and sweeping as ever, his shield was 
polished just as brightly, his brown eyes were just as warm when he saw his 
friends.
"And you have a beard," Sturm said with amusement.
Then the knight turned to greet Caramon and Flint. Tasslehoff dashed off after 
more ale, Tika having been called away to serve others in the growing crowd.
"Greetings, Knight," whispered Raistlin from his corner.
Sturm's face grew solemn as he turned to greet the other twin. "Raistlin," he 
said.
The mage drew back his hood, letting the light fall on his face. Sturm was too 
well-bred to let his astonishment show beyond a slight exclamation. But his eyes 
widened. Tanis realized the young mage was getting a cynical pleasure out of 
seeing his friends' discomfiture.
"Can I get you something, Raistlin?" Tanis asked.
"No, thank you," the mage answered, moving into the shadows once again.
"He eats practically nothing," Caramon said in a worried tone. "I think he lives 
on air."
"Some plants live on air," Tasslehoff stated, returning with Sturm's ale. "I've 
seen them. They hover up off the ground. Their roots suck food and water out of 
the atmosphere."
"Really?" Caramon's eyes were wide.
"I don't know who's the greater idiot," said Flint in disgust.
"Well, we're all here. What news?"
'All?" Sturm looked at Tanis questioningly. "Kitiara?"
"Not coming," Tanis replied steadily. "We were hoping perhaps you could tell us 
something."
"Not I." The knight frowned. "We traveled north together and parted soon after 
crossing the Sea Narrows into Old Solamnia. She was going to look up relatives 
of her father, she said. That was the last I saw of her."
"Well, I suppose that's that." Tanis sighed. "What of your relatives, Sturm? Did 
you find your father?"
Sturm began to talk, but Tanis only half-listened to Sturm's tale of his travels 
in his ancestral land of Solamnia. Tanis's thoughts were on Kitiara. Of all his 
friends, she had been the one he most longed to see. After five years of trying 
to get her dark eyes and crooked smile out of his mind, he discovered that his 
longing for her grew daily. Wild, impetuous, hot-tempered -the swordswoman was 
everything Tanis was not. She was also human, and love between human and elf 
always ended in tragedy. Yet Tanis could no more get Kitiara out of his heart 
than he could get his human half out of his blood. Wrenching his mind free of 
memories, he began listening to Sturm.
"I heard rumors. Some say my father is dead. Some say he's alive." His face 
darkened. "But no one knows where he is."
"Your inheritance?" Caramon asked.
Sturm smiled, a melancholy smile that softened the lines in his proud face. "I 
wear it," he replied simply. "My armor and my weapon."
Tanis looked down to see that the knight wore a splendid, if old-fashioned, 
two-handed sword.
Caramon stood up to peer over the table. "That's a beauty," he said. "They don't 
make them like that these days. My sword broke in a fight with an ogre. Theros 
Ironfeld put a new blade on it today, but it cost me dearly. So you're a knight 
now?"
Sturm's smile vanished. Ignoring the question, he caressed the hilt of his sword 
lovingly. "According to the legend, this sword will break only if I do," he 
said. "It was all that was left of my father's-"
Suddenly Tas, who hadn't been listening, interrupted. "Who are those people?" 
the kender asked in a shrill whisper.
Tanis looked up as the two barbarians walked past their table, heading for empty 
chairs that sat in the shadows of a corner near the firepit. The man was the 
tallest man Tanis had ever seen. Caramon-at six feet-would come only to this 
man's shoulder. But Caramon's chest was probably twice as big around, his arms 
three times as big. Although the man was bundled with the furs barbarian 
tribesmen live in, it was obvious that he was thin for his great height. His 
face, though dark-skinned, had the pale cast of one who has been ill or suffered 
greatly.
His companion-the woman Sturm had bowed to-was so muffled in a fur-trimmed-cape 
and hood that it was difficult to tell much about her. Neither she nor her tall 
escort glanced at Sturm as they passed. The woman carried a plain staff trimmed 
with feathers in barbaric fashion. The man carried a well-worn knapsack. They 
sat down in the chairs, huddled in their cloaks, and talked together in low 
voices.
"I found them wandering around on the road outside of town," Sturm said. "The 
woman appeared near exhaustion, the man just as bad. I brought them here, told 
them they could get food and rest for the night. They are proud people and would 
have refused my help, I think, but they were lost and tired and-"-Sturm lowered 
his voice-"there are things on the road these days that it is better not to face 
in the dark."
"We met some of them, asking about a staff," Tanis said grimly. He described 
their encounter with Fewmaster Toede.
Although Sturm smiled at the description of the battle, he shook his head. "A 
Seeker guard questioned me about a staff outside," he said. "Blue crystal, 
wasn't it?"
Caramon nodded and put his hand on his brother's thin arm. "One of the slimy 
guards stopped us," the warrior said. "They were going to impound Raist's staff, 
if you'll believe that-for further investigation they said. I rattled my sword 
at them and they thought better of the notion."
Raistlin moved his arm from his brother's touch, a scornful smile on his lips.
"What would have happened if they had taken your staff?" Tanis asked Raistlin.
The mage looked at him from the shadows of his hood, his golden eyes gleaming. 
"They would have died horribly," the mage whispered, "and not by my brother's 
sword!"
The half-elf felt chilled. The mage's softly spoken words were more frightening 
than his brothers bravado. "I wonder what is so important about a blue crystal 
staff that goblins would kill to get it?" Tanis mused.
"There are rumors of worse to come," Sturm said quietly. His friends moved 
closer to hear him. "Armies are gathering in the north. Armies of strange 
creatures-not human. There is talk of war."
"But what? Who?" Tanis asked. "I've heard the same."
"And so have I," Caramon added. "In fact, I heard-"
As the conversation continued, Tasslehoff yawned and turned away. Easily bored, 
the kender looked around the Inn for some new amusement. His eyes went to the 
old man still spinning tales for the child by the fire. The old man had a larger 
audience now-the two barbarians were listening, Tas noted. Then his jaw dropped.
The woman had thrown her hood back and the firelight shone on her face and hair. 
The kender stared in admiration. The woman's face was like the face of a marble 
statue-classic, pure, cold. But it was her hair that captured the kender's 
attention. Tas had never before seen such hair, especially on the Plainsmen, who 
were usually dark-haired and dark-skinned. No jeweler spinning molten strands of 
silver and gold could have created the effect of this woman's silver-gold hair 
shining in the firelight.
One other person listened to the old man. This was a man dressed in the rich 
brown and golden robes of a Seeker. He sat at a small round table, drinking 
mulled wine. Several mugs stood empty before him and, even as the kender 
watched, he called sourly for another.
"That's Hederick," Tika whispered as she passed the companions' table. "The High 
Theocrat."
The man called out again, glaring at Tika. She bustled quickly over to help him. 
He snarled at her, mentioning poor service. She seemed to start to answer 
sharply, then bit her lip and kept silent. The old man came to an end of his 
tale. The boy sighed. "Are all your stories of the ancient gods true. Old One?" 
he aske curiously.
Tasslehoff saw Hederick frown. The kender hoped he wouldn't bother the old man. 
Tas touched Tanis's arm to catch his attention, nodding his head toward the 
Seeker with a look that meant there might be trouble.
The friends turned. All were immediately overwhelmed by the beauty of the 
Plainswoman. They stared in silence.
The old man's voice carried clearly over the drone of the other conversation in 
the common room. "Indeed, my stories are true, child." The old man looked 
directly at the woman and her tall escort. "Ask these two. They carry such 
stories in their hearts."
"Do you?" The boy turned to the woman eagerly. "Can you tell me a story?"
The woman shrank back into the shadows, her face filled with alarm as she 
noticed Tanis and his friends staring at her. The man drew near her 
protectively, his hand reaching for his weapon. He glowered at the group, 
especially the heavily armed warrior, Caramon.
"Nervous bastard," Caramon commented, his hand straying to his own sword.
"I can understand why," Sturm said. "Guarding such a treasure. He is her 
bodyguard, by the way. I gathered from their conversation that she's some kind 
of royal person in their tribe. Though I imagine from the looks they exchanged 
that their relationship goes a bit deeper than that."
The woman raised her hand in a gesture of protest. "I'm sorry." The friends had 
to strain to hear her low voice. "I am not a teller of tales. I have not the 
art." She spoke the Common tongue, her accent thick.
The child's eager face filled with disappointment. The old man patted him on the 
back, then looked directly into the woman's eyes. "You may not be a teller of 
tales," he said pleasantly, "but you are a singer of songs, aren't you. 
Chieftain's Daughter. Sing the child your song, Goldmoon. You know the one."
From out of nowhere, apparently, a lute appeared in the old man's hands. He gave 
it to the woman who stared at him in fear and astonishment.
"How ... do you know me, sir?" she asked.
"That is not important." The old man smiled gently. "Sing for us. Chieftain's 
Daughter."
The woman took the lute with hands that trembled visibly. Her companion seemed 
to make a whispered protest, but she did not hear him. Her eyes were held fast 
by the glittering black eyes of the old man. Slowly, as if in a trance, she 
began to strum the lute. As the melancholy chords drifted through the common 
room, conversations ceased. Soon, everyone was watching her, but she did not 
notice. Goldmoon sang for the old man alone.
 
The grasslands are endless,
And summer sings on,
And Goldmoon the princess
Loves a poor man's son.
Her father the chieftain
Makes long roads between them,
The grasslands are endless, and summer sings on.
The grasslands are waving,
The sky's rim is gray,
The chieftain sends Riverwind
East and away,
To search for strong magic
At the lip of the morning,
The grasslands are waving, the sky's rim is gray.
O Riverwind, where have you gone?
O Riverwind, autumn comes on.
I sit by the river
And look to the sunrise,
But the sun rises over the mountains alone.
The grasslands are fading,
The summer wind dies,
He comes back, the darkness
Of stones in his eyes.
He carries a blue staff
As bright as a glacier,
The grasslands are fading, the summer wind dies.
The grasslands are fragile,
As yellow as flame,
The chieftain makes mockery
Of Riverwind's claim.
He orders the people
To stone the young warrior,
The grasslands are fragile, as yellow as flame.
The grassland has faded,
And autumn is here.
The girl joins her lover,
The stones whistle near,
The staff flares in blue light
And both of them vanish,
The grasslands are faded, and autumn is here.
 
There was heavy silence in the room as her hand struck the final chord. Taking a 
deep breath, she handed the lute back to the old man and withdrew into the 
shadows once more.
"Thank you, my dear," the old man said, smiling.
"Now can I have a story?" the little boy asked wistfully.
"Of course," the old man answered and settled back in his chair. "Once upon a 
time, the great god, Paladine-"
"Paladine?" the child interrupted. "I've never heard of a god named Paladine."
A snorting sound came from the High Theocrat sitting at the nearby table. Tanis 
looked at Hederick, whose face was flushed and scowling. The old man appeared 
not to notice.
"Paladine is one of the ancient gods, child. No one has worshipped him for a 
long time."
"Why did he leave?" the little boy asked.
"He did not leave us," the old man answered, and his smile grew sad. "Men left 
him after the dark days of the Cataclysm. They blamed the destruction of the 
world on the gods, instead of on themselves, as they should have done. Have you 
ever heard the 'Canticle of the Dragon'?"
"Oh, yes," the boy said eagerly. "I love stories about dragons, though papa says 
dragons never existed. I believe in them, though. I hope to see one someday!"
The old man's face seemed to age and grow sorrowful. He stroked the young boy's 
hair. "Be careful what you wish, my child," he said softly. Then he fell silent.
"The story-" the boy prompted.
"Oh, yes. Well, once upon a time Paladine heard the prayer of a very great 
knight, Huma-"
"Huma from the 'Canticle'?"
"Yes, that's the one. Huma became lost in the forest. He wandered and wandered 
until he despaired because he thought he would never see his homeland again. He 
prayed to Paladine for help, and there suddenly appeared before him a white 
stag."
"Did Huma shoot it?" the boy asked.
"He started to, but his heart failed him. He could not shoot an animal so 
magnificent. The stag bounded away. Then it stopped arid looked back at him, as 
if waiting. Huma began to follow it. Day and night, he followed the stag until 
it led him to his homeland. He offered thanks to the god, Paladine-"
"Blashphemy!" snarled a voice loudly. A chair crashed back.
Tanis put down his mug of ale, looking up. Everyone at the table stopped 
drinking to watch the drunken Theocrat.
"Blasphemy!" Hederick, weaving unsteadily on his feet, pointed at the old man. 
"Heretic! Corrupting our youth! I'll bring you before the counshel, old man." 
The Seeker fell back a step, then staggered forward again. He looked around the 
room with a pompous air. "Call the guardsh!" He made a grandiose gesture. "Have 
them arresht thish man and thish woman for singing lewd songsh. Obviously a 
witch! I'll confishcate thish staff!"
The Seeker lurched across the floor to the barbarian woman, who was staring at 
him in disgust. He reached clumsily for her staff.
"No," the woman called Goldmoon spoke coolly. "That is mine. You cannot take 
it."
"Witch!" the Seeker sneered. "I am the High Theocrat! I take what I want."
He started to make another grab for the staff. The woman's tall companion rose 
to his feet. "The Chieftain's Daughter says you will not take it," the man said 
harshly. He shoved the Seeker backward.
The tall man's push was not rough, but it knocked the drunken Theocrat 
completely off balance. His arms flailing wildly, he tried to catch himself. He 
lurched forward-too far-tripped over his official robes, and fell head first 
into the roaring fire.
There was a whoosh and a flare of light, then a sickening smell of burning 
flesh. The Theocrat's scream tore through the stunned silence as the crazed man 
leaped to his feet and started whirling around in a frenzy. He had become a 
living torch!
Tanis and the others sat, unable to move, paralyzed with the shock of the 
incident. Only Tasslehoff had wits enough to run forward, anxious to try and 
help the man. But the Theocrat was screaming and waving his arms, fanning the 
flames that were consuming his clothes and his body. There seemed no way that 
the little kender could help him.
"Here!" The old man grabbed the barbarian's feather-decorated staff and handed 
it to the kender. "Knock him down. Then we can smother the fire."
Tasslehoff took the staff. He swung it, using all his strength, and hit the 
Theocrat squarely in the chest. The man fell to the ground. There was a gasp 
from the crowd. Tasslehoff himself stood, opened-mouthed, the staff clutched in 
his hand, staring down at the amazing sight at his feet. The flames had died 
instantly. The man's robes were whole, undamaged. His skin was pink and healthy. 
He sat up, a look of fear and awe on his face. He stared down at his hands and 
his robes. There was not a mark on his skin. There was not the smallest cinder 
smoking on his robes.
"It healed him!" the old man proclaimed loudly. "The staff Look at the staff!"
Tasslehoff s eyes went to the staff in his hands. It was made of blue crystal 
and was glowing with a bright blue light!
The old man began shouting. "Call the guards! Arrest the kender! Arrest the 
barbarians! Arrest their friends! I saw them come in with this knight." He 
pointed at Sturm.
"What?" Tanis leaped up. "Are you crazy, old man?"
"Call the guards!" The word spread. "Did you see-? The blue crystal staff? We've 
found it. Now they'll leave us alone. Call the guards!"
The Theocrat staggered to his feet, his face pale, blotched with red. The 
barbarian woman and her companion stood up, fear and alarm in their faces.
"Foul witch!" Hederick's voice shook with rage. "You have cured me with evil! 
Even as I burn to purify my flesh, you will burn to purify your soul!" With 
that, the Seeker reached out, and before anyone could stop him, he plunged his 
hand back into the flames! He gagged with the pain but did not cry out. Then, 
clutching his charred and blackened hand, he turned and staggered off through 
the murmuring crowd, a wild look of satisfaction on his pain-twisted face.
"You've got to get out of here!" Tika came running over to Tanis, her breath 
coming in gasps. "The whole town's been hunting for that staff! Those hooded men 
told the Theocrat they'd destroy Solace if they caught someone harboring the 
staff. The townspeople will turn you over to the guards!"
"But it's not our staff!" Tanis protested. He glared at the old man and saw him 
settle back into his chair, a pleased smile on his face. The old man grinned at 
Tanis and winked.
"Do you think they'll believe you!" Tika wrung her hands. "Look!"
Tanis looked around. People were glaring at them balefully. Some took a firm 
grip on their mugs. Others eased their hands onto the hilts of their swords. 
Shouts from down below drew his eyes back to his friends.
"The guards are coming!" exclaimed Tika.
Tanis rose. "We'll have to go out through the kitchen."
"Yes!" She nodded. "They won't look back there yet. But hurry. It won't take 
them long to surround the place."
Years of being apart had not affected the companions' ability to react as a team 
to threat of danger. Caramon had pulled on his shining helm, drawn his sword, 
shouldered his pack, and was helping his brother to his feet. Raistlin, his 
staff in his hand, was moving around the table. Flint had hold of his,battle-axe 
and was frowning darkly at the onlookers, who seemed hesitant about rushing to 
attack such well-armed men. Only Sturm sat, calmly drinking his ale.
"Sturm!" Tanis said urgently. "Come on! We've got to get out of here!"
"Run?" The knight appeared astonished. "From this rabble?"
"Yes." Tanis paused; the knight's code of honor forbade running from danger. He 
had to convince him. "That man is a religious fanatic, Sturm. He'll probably 
burn us at the stake! And"-a sudden thought rescued him-"there is a lady to 
protect."
"The lady, of course." Sturm stood up at once and walked over to the woman. 
"Madam, your servant." He bowed; the courtly knight would not be hurried. "It 
seems we are all in this together. Your staff has placed us in considerable 
danger-you most of all. We are familiar with the area around here, we grew up 
here. You, I know, are strangers. We would be honored to accompany you and your 
gallant friend and guard your lives."
"Come on!" Tika urged, tugging on Tanis's arm. Caramon and Raistlin were already 
at the kitchen door.
"Get the kender," Tanis told her.
Tasslehoff stood, rooted to the floor, staring at the staff. It was rapidly 
fading back to its nondescript brown color. Tika grabbed Tas by his topknot and 
pulled him toward the kitchen. The kender shrieked, dropping the staff. Goldmoon 
swiftly picked it up, clutching it close to her. Although frightened, her eyes 
were clear and steady as she looked at Sturm and Tanis; she was apparently 
thinking rapidly. Her companion said a harsh word in their language. She shook 
her head. He frowned and made a slashing motion with his hand. She snapped a 
quick reply and he fell silent, his face dark.
"We will go with you," Goldmoon said to Sturm in the Common tongue. "Thank you 
for the offer."
"This way!" Tanis herded them out through the swinging kitchen doors following 
Tika and Tas. He glanced behind him and saw some of the crowd move forward, but 
in no great hurry.
The cook stared at them as they ran through the kitchen. Caramon and Raistlin 
were already at the exit, which was nothing more than a hole cut in the floor. A 
rope hung from a sturdy limb above the hole and dropped forty feet to the 
ground.
"Ah!" exclaimed Tas, laughing. "Here the ale comes up and the garbage goes 
down." He swung out onto the rope and shinnied down easily.
"I'm sorry about this," Tika apologized to Goldmoon, "but it is the only way out 
of here."
"I can climb down a rope." Then the woman smiled and added, "Though I admit it 
has been many years."
She handed her staff to her companion and grasped the stout rope. She began to 
descend, moving skillfully hand over hand. When she had reached the bottom, her 
companion tossed the staff down, swung on the rope, and dropped through the 
hole.
"How are you going to get down, Raist?" Caramon asked, his face lined with 
concern. "I can carry you on my back-"
Raistlin's eyes flashed with an anger that startled Tanis. "I can get down 
myself!" the mage hissed. Before anyone could stop him, he stepped to the edge 
of the hole and leaped out into the air. Everyone gasped and peered down, 
expecting to see Raistlin splattered all over the ground. Instead, they saw the 
young mage gently floating down, his robes fluttering around him. The crystal on 
his staff glowed brightly.
"He shivers my skin!" Flint growled to Tanis.
"Hurry!" Tanis shoved the dwarf forward. Flint grabbed hold of the rope. Caramon 
followed, the big man's weight causing the limb the rope was tied around to 
creak.
"I will go last," Sturm said, his sword drawn.
"Very well." Tanis knew it was useless to argue. He slung the longbow and quiver 
of arrows over his shoulder, grabbed the rope, and started down. Suddenly his 
hands slipped. He slid down the rope, unable to stop it tearing the skin off his 
palms. He landed on the ground and looked, wincing, at his hands. His palms were 
raw and bleeding. But there was no time to think about them. Glancing up, he 
watched as Sturm descended.
Tika's face appeared in the opening. "Go to my house!" she mouthed, pointing 
through the trees. Then she was gone.
"I know the way," Tasslehoff said, his eyes glowing with excitement. "Follow 
me."
They hurried off after the kender, hearing the sounds of the guards climbing the 
stairway into the Inn. Tanis, unused to walking on the ground in Solace, was 
soon lost. Above him he could see the bridge-walks, the street lamps gleaming 
among the tree leaves. He was completely disoriented, but Tas kept pushing 
forward confidently, weaving in and out among the huge trunks of the vallenwood 
trees. The sounds of the commotion at the Inn faded.
"We'll hide at Tika's for the night," Tanis whispered to Sturm as they plunged 
through the underbrush. "Just in case someone recognized us and decides to 
search our homes. Everyone will have forgotten about this by morning. We'll take 
the Plainsmen to my house and let them rest a few days. Then we can send the 
barbarians on to Haven where the Council of High Seekers can talk with them. I 
think I might even go along -I'm curious about this staff."
Sturm nodded. Then he looked at Tanis and smiled his rare, melancholy smile. 
"Welcome home," the knight said.
"Same to you." The half-elf grinned.
They both came to a sudden halt, bumping into Caramon in the dark.
"We're here, I think," Caramon said.
In the light of the street lamps that hung in the tree limbs, they could see 
Tasslehoff climbing tree branches like a gully dwarf. The rest followed more 
slowly, Caramon assisting his brother. Tanis, gritting his teeth from the pain 
in his hands, climbed up slowly through the rapidly thinning autumn foliage. Tas 
pulled himself up over the porch railing with the skill of a burglar. The kender 
slipped over to the door and peered up and down the bridge-walk. Seeing no one 
on it, he motioned to the others. Then he studied the lock and smiled to himself 
in satisfaction. The kender slid something out of one of his pouches. Within 
seconds, the door of Tika's house swung open.
"Come in," he said, playing host.
They crowded inside the little house, the tall barbarian being forced to duck 
his head to avoid hitting the ceiling. Tas pulled the curtains shut. Sturm found 
a chair for the lady, and the tall barbarian went to stand behind her. Raistlin 
stirred up the fire.
"Keep watch," Tanis said. Caramon nodded. The warrior had already posted himself 
at a window, staring out into the darkness. The light from a street lamp gleamed 
through the curtains into the room, casting dark shadows on the walls. For long 
moments no one spoke, each staring at the others.
Tanis sat down. His eyes turned to the woman. "The blue crystal staff," he said 
quietly. "It healed that man. How?"
"I do not know." She faltered. "I-I haven't had it very long."
Tanis looked down at his hands. They were bleeding from where the rope had 
peeled off his skin. He held them out to her. Slowly, her face pale, the woman 
touched him with the staff. It began to glow blue. Tanis felt a slight shock 
tingle through his body. Even as he watched, the blood on his palms vanished, 
the skin became smooth and unscarred, the pain eased and soon left him 
completely.
"True healing!" he said in awe.
 
 
4
The open ooor.
Flight into darkness.
 
Raistlin sat down on the hearth, rubbing his thin hands in the warmth of the 
small fire. His golden eyes seemed brighter than the flames as he stared 
intently at the blue crystal staff resting across the woman's lap.
"What do you think?" asked Tanis.
"If she's a charlatan, she's a good one," Raistlin commented thoughtfully.
"Worm! You dare to call the Chieftain's Daughter charlatan!" The tall barbarian 
stepped toward Raistlin, his dark, brows contracted in a vicious scowl. Caramon 
made a low, rumbling sound in his throat and moved from the window to stand 
behind his brother.
"Riverwind . . ." The woman laid her hand on the man's arm as he drew near her 
chair. "Please. He meant no harm. It is right that they do not trust us. They do 
not know us."
"And we do not know them," the man growled.
"If I might examine it?" Raistlin said.
Goldmoon nodded and held out the staff. The mage stretched out his long, bony 
arm, his thin hands grasping for it eagerly. As Raistlin touched the staff, 
however, there was a bright flash of blue light and a crackling sound. The mage 
jerked his hand back, crying out in pain and shock. Caramon jumped forward, but 
his brother stopped him.
"No, Caramon," Raistlin whispered hoarsely, wringing his injured hand. "The lady 
had nothing to do with that."
The woman, indeed, was staring at the staff in amazement.
"What is it then?" Tanis asked in exasperation. "A staff that heals and injures 
at the same time?"
"It merely knows its own." Raistlin licked his lips, his eyes glittering. 
"Watch. Caramon, take the staff."
"Not me!" The warrior drew back as if from a snake.
"Take the staff!" Raistlin demanded.
Reluctantly, Caramon stretched out a trembling hand. His arm twitched as his 
fingers came closer and closer. Closing his eyes and gritting his teeth in 
anticipation of pain, he touched the staff. Nothing happened. Caramon opened his 
eyes wide, startled. He gripped the staff, lifted it in his huge hand, and 
grinned.
"See there." Raistlin gestured like an illusionist showing off a trick to the 
crowd. "Only those of simple goodness, pure in heart"-his sarcasm was 
biting-"may touch the staff. It is truly a sacred staff of healing, blessed by 
some god. It is not magic. No magic objects that I have ever heard about have 
healing powers."
"Hush!" ordered Tasslehoff, who had taken Caramon's place by the window. "The 
Theocrat's guards!" he warned softly.
No one spoke. Now they could all hear goblin footsteps flapping on the 
bridge-walks that ran among the branches of the vallenwood trees.
"They're conducting a house-to-house search!" Tanis whispered increduously, 
listening to fists banging on a neighboring door.
"The Seekers demand right of entry!" croaked a voice. There was a pause, then 
the same voice said, "No one home, do we kick the door in?"
"Naw," said another voice. "We better just report to the Theocrat, let him kick 
the door down. Now if it was unlocked, that'd be different -we're allowed to 
enter then."
Tanis looked at the door opposite him. He felt the hair rise on the back of his 
neck. He could have sworn they had shut and bolted the door . . . now it stood 
slightly open!
"The door!" he whispered. "Caramon-"
But the warrior had already moved over to stand behind the door, his back to the 
wall, his giant hands flexing.
The footsteps flapped to a stop outside. "The Seekers demand right of entry." 
The goblins began to bang on the door, then stopped in surprise as it swung 
open.
"This place is empty," said one. "Let's move on."
"You got no imagination, Grum," said the other. "Here's our chance to pick up a 
few pieces of silver."
A goblin head appeared around the open door. Its eyes focused on Raistlin, 
sitting calmly, his staff on his shoulder. The goblin grunted in alarm, then 
began to laugh.
"Oh, ho! Look what we've found! A staff!" The goblin's eyes gleamed. It took a 
step toward Raistlin, its partner crowding close behind. "Hand me that staff!"
"Certainly," the mage whispered. He held his own staff forth. "Shirak" he said. 
The crystal ball flared into light. The goblins shrieked and shut their eyes, 
fumbling for their swords. At that moment, Caramon jumped from behind the door, 
grabbed the goblins around their necks, and swept their heads together with a 
sickening thud. The goblin bodies crumpled into a stinking heap.
"Dead?" asked Tanis as Caramon bent over them, examining them by the light of 
Raistlin's staff.
"I'm afraid so." The big man sighed. "I hit them too hard."
"Well, that's torn it," Tanis said grimly. "We've murdered two more of the 
Theocrat's guards. He'll have the town up in arms. Now we can't just lie low for 
a few days-we've got to get out of here! And you two"-he turned to the 
barbarians-"had better come with us."
"Wherever we're going," muttered Flint irritably.
"Where were you headed?" Tanis asked Riverwind.
"We were traveling to Haven," the barbarian answered reluctantly.
"There are wise men there," Goldmoon said. "We hoped they could tell us about 
this staff. You see, the song I sang-it was true, the staff saved our lives.-"
"You'll have to tell us later," Tanis interrupted. "When these guards don't 
report back, every goblin in Solace will be swarming up the trees. Raistlin, put 
out that light."
The mage spoke another word, "Dumak" The crystal glimmered, then the light died.
"What'll we do with the bodies?" Caramon asked, nudging a dead goblin with his 
booted foot. "And what about Tika? Won't she get into trouble?"
"Leave the bodies." Tanis's mind was working quickly. "And hack up the door. 
Sturm, knock over a few tables. We'll make it look as if we broke in here and 
got into a fight with these fellows. That way, Tika shouldn't be in too much 
trouble. She's a smart girl-she'll manage."
"We'll need food," Tasslehoff stated. He ran into the kitchen and began 
rummaging through the shelves, stuffing loaves of bread and anything else that 
looked edible into his pouches. He tossed Flint a full skin of wine. Sturm 
overturned a few chairs. Caramon arranged the bodies to make it look as if they 
had died in a ferocious battle. The Plainsmen stood in front of the dying fire, 
looking at Tanis uncertainly.
"Well?" said Sturm. "Now what? Where are we going?"
Tanis hesitated, running over the options in his mind. The Plainsmen had come 
from the east and-if their story was true and their tribe had been trying to 
kill them-they wouldn't want to go back that way. The group could travel south, 
into the elven kingdom, but Tanis felt a strange reluctance to go back to his 
homelands. He knew, too, that the elves would not be pleased to see these 
strangers enter in their hidden city.
"We will travel north," he said finally. "We will escort these two until we come 
to the crossroads, then we can decide what to do from there. They can go on 
southwest to Haven, if they wish. I plan to travel farther north and see if the 
rumors about armies gathering are true."
"And perhaps run into Kitiara," Raistlin whispered slyly.
Tanis flushed. "Is that plan all right?" he asked, looking around.
"Though not the eldest among us, Tanis, you are the wisest," Sturm said. "We 
follow you-as always."
Caramon nodded. Raistlin was already heading for the door. Flint shouldered the 
wine skin, grumbling.
Tanis felt a gentle hand touch his arm. He turned and looked down into the clear 
blue eyes of the beautiful barbarian.
"We are grateful," Goldmoon said slowly, as if unused to expressing 
appreciation. "You risk your lives for us, and we are strangers."
Tanis smiled and clasped her hand. "I am Tanis. The brothers are Caramon and 
Raistlin. The knight is Sturm Brightblade. Flint Fireforge carries the wine and 
Tasslehoff Burrfoot is our clever locksmith. You are Goldmoon and he is 
Riverwind. There-we are strangers no longer."
Goldmoon smiled wearily. She patted Tanis's arm, then started out the door, 
leaning on the staff that once again seemed plain and nondescript. Tanis watched 
her, then glanced up to see Riverwind staring at him, the barbarian's dark face 
an impenetrable mask.
"Well," Tanis amended silently. "Some of us are no longer strangers."
Soon everyone had gone, Tas leading the way. Tanis stood alone for a moment in 
the wrecked living room, staring at the bodies of the goblins. This was supposed 
to have been a peaceful homecoming after bitter years of solitary travel. He 
thought of his comfortable house. He thought of all the things he had planned to 
do-things he had planned to do together with Kitiara. He thought of long winter 
nights, with storytelling around the fire at the Inn, then returning home, 
laughing together beneath the fur blankets, sleeping through the snow-covered 
mornings.
Tanis kicked at the smoldering coals, scattering them. Kitiara had not come 
back. Goblins had invaded his quiet town. He was fleeing into the night to 
escape a bunch of religious fanatics, with every likelihood he could never 
return. Elves do not notice the passage of time. They live for hundreds of 
years. For them, the seasons pass like brief rain showers. But Tanis was half 
human. He sensed change coming, felt the disquieting restlessness men feel 
before a thunderstorm. He sighed and shook his head. Then he went out the 
shattered door, leaving it swinging crazily on one hinge.
 
 
5
Farewell to Flint.
Arrows fly. Message in the stars.
 
Tanis swung over the porch and dropped down through the tree limbs to the ground 
below. The others waited, huddled in the darkness, keeping out of the light cast 
by street lamps swinging in the branches above them. A chill wind had sprung up, 
blowing out of the north. Tanis glanced behind him and saw other lights, lights 
of the search parties. He pulled his hood over his head and hurried forward.
"Wind's switched," he said. "There'll be rain by morning." He looked around at 
the small group, seeing them in the eerie, wildly dancing light of the 
wind-tossed lamps. Goldmoon's face was scarred with weariness. Riverwind's was a 
stoic mask of strength, but his shoulders sagged. Raistlin, shivering, leaned 
against a tree, wheezing for breath.
Tanis hunched his shoulders against the wind. "We've got to find shelter," he 
said. "Some place to rest."
"Tanis-" Tas tugged on the half-elf's cloak. "We could go by boat. Crystalmir 
Lake's only a short way. There're caves on the other side, and it will cut 
walking time tomorrow."
"That's a good idea, Tas, but we don't have a boat."
"No problem." The kender grinned. His small face and sharply pointed ears made 
him look particularly impish in the eerie light. Tas is enjoying all of this 
immensely, Tanis realized. He felt like shaking the kender, lecturing him 
sternly on how much danger they were in. But the half-elf knew it was useless; 
kenders are totally immune to fear.
"The boat's a good idea," Tanis repeated, after a moment's thought. "You guide. 
And don't tell Flint," he added. "I'll take care of that."
"Right!" Tas giggled, then slipped back to the others. "Follow me," he called 
out softly, and he started off once more. Flint, grumbling into his beard, 
stumped after the kender. Goldmoon followed the dwarf. Riverwind cast a quick, 
penetrating glance around at everyone in the group, then fell into step behind 
her.
"I don't think he trusts us," Caramon observed.
"Would you?" Tanis asked, glancing at the big man. Caramon's dragon helm glinted 
in the flickering lights; his ring-mail armor was visible whenever the wind blew 
his cape back. A longsword clanked against his thick thighs, a short bow and a 
quiver of arrows were slung over his shoulder, a dagger protruded from his belt. 
His shield was battered and dented from many fights. The giant was ready for 
anything.
Tanis looked over at Stunn, who proudly wore the coat of arms of a knighthood 
that had fallen into disgrace three hundred years before. Although Sturm was 
only four years older than Caramon, the knight's strict, disciplined life, 
hardships brought on by poverty, and his melancholy search for his beloved 
father had aged the knight beyond his years. Only twenty-nine, he looked forty. 
Tanis thought, I don't think I'd trust us either.
"What's the plan?" Sturm asked.
"We're going by boat," Tanis answered.
"Oh, ho!" Caramon chuckled. "Told Flint yet?"
"No. Leave that to me."
"Where are we getting the boat?" Sturm asked suspiciously.
"You'll be happier not knowing," the half-elf said.
The knight frowned. His eyes followed the kender, who was far ahead of them, 
flitting from one shadow to another. "I don't like this, Tanis. First we're 
murderers, now we're about to become thieves."
"I don't consider myself a murderer." Caramon snorted. "Goblins don't count."
Tanis saw the knight glare at Caramon. "I don't like any of this, Sturm," he 
said hastily, hoping to avoid an argument. "But it's a matter of necessity. Look 
at the Plainsmen-pride's the only thing keeping them on their feet. Look at 
Raistlin . . ." Their eyes went to the mage, who was shuffling through the dry 
leaves, keeping always in the shadows. He leaned heavily upon his staff. 
Occasionally, a dry cough racked his frail body.
Caramon's face darkened. "Tanis is right," he said softly. "Raist can't take 
much more of this. I must go to him." Leaving the knight and the half-elf, he 
hurried forward to catch up with the robed, bent figure of his twin.
"Let me help you, Raist," they heard Caramon whisper.
Raistlin shook his hooded head and flinched away from his brother's touch. 
Caramon shrugged and dropped his arm. But the big warrior stayed close to his 
frail brother, ready to help him if necessary.
"Why does he put up with that?" Tanis asked softly.
"Family. Ties of blood." Sturm sounded wistful. He seemed about to say more, 
then his eyes went to Tanis's elven face with its growth of human hair and he 
fell silent. Tanis saw the look, knew what the knight was thinking. Family, ties 
of blood-they were things the orphaned half-elf wouldn't know about.
"Come on," Tanis said abruptly. "We're dropping behind."
They soon left the vallenwood trees of Solace and entered the pine forest 
surrounding Crystalmir Lake. Tanis could faintly hear muffled shouts far behind 
them. "They've found the bodies," he guessed. Sturm nodded gloomily. Suddenly 
Tasslehoff seemed to materialize out of the darkness right beneath the 
half-elf's nose.
"The trail runs a little over a mile to the lake," Tas said. "I'll meet you 
where it comes out." He gestured vaguely, then disappeared before Tanis could 
say a word. The half-elf looked back at Solace. There seemed to be more lights, 
and they were moving in this direction. The roads were probably already blocked.
"Where's the kender?" Flint grumbled as they plunged through the forest.
"Tas is meeting us at the lake," Tanis replied.
"Lake?" Flint's eyes grew wide in alarm. "What lake?"
"There's only one lake around here, Flint," Tanis said, trying hard not to smile 
at Sturm. "Come on. We better keep going."
His elvensight showed him the broad red outline of Caramon and the slighter red 
shape of his brother disappearing into the thick woods ahead.
"I thought we were just going to lie low in the woods for awhile." Flint shoved 
his way past Sturm to complain to Tanis.
"We're going by boat." Tanis moved forward.
"Nope!" Flint growled. "I'm not getting in any boat!"
"That accident happened ten years ago!" Tanis said, exasperated. "Look, I'll 
make Caramon sit still."
"Absolutely not!" the dwarf said flatly. "No boats. I took a vow."
"Tanis," Sturm's voice whispered behind him. "Lights."
"Blast!" The half-elf stopped and turned. He had to wait a moment before 
catching sight of lights glittering through the trees. The search had spread 
beyond Solace. He hurried to catch up with Caramon, Raistlin, and the Plainsmen.
"Lights!" he called out in a piercing whisper. Caramon looked back and swore. 
Riverwind raised his hand in acknowledgement. "I'm afraid we're going to have to 
move faster, Caramon-" Tanis began.
"We'll make it," the big man said, unperturbed. He was supporting his brother 
now, his arm around Raistlin's thin body, practically carrying him. Raistlin 
coughed softly, but he was moving. Sturm caught up with Tanis. As they forced 
their way through the brush, they could hear Flint, puffing along behind, 
muttering angrily to himself.
"He won't come, Tanis," Sturm said. "Flint's been in mortal fear of boats ever 
since Caramon almost accidentally drowned him that time. You weren't there. You 
didn't see him after we hauled him out."
"He'll come," Tanis said, breathing hard. "He can't let us youngsters go off 
into danger without him."
Sturm shook his head, unconvinced.
Tanis looked back again. He saw no lights, but he knew they were too deep in the 
forest now to see them. Fewmaster Toede may not have impressed anybody with his 
brains, but it wouldn't take much intelligence to figure out that the group 
might take to the water. Tanis stopped abruptly to keep from bumping into 
someone. "What is it?" he whispered.
"We're here," Caramon answered. Tanis breathed a sigh of relief as he stared out 
across the dark expanse of Crystalmir Lake. The wind whipped the water into 
frothy whitecaps.
"Where's Tas?" He kept his voice low.
"There, I think." Caramon pointed at a dark object floating close to shore. 
Tanis could barely make out the warm red outline of the kender sitting in a 
large boat.
The stars gleamed with icy brightness in the blue-black sky. The red moon, 
Lunitari, was rising like a bloody fingernail from the water. Its partner in the 
night sky, Solinari, had already risen, marking the lake with molten silver.
"What wonderful targets we're going to make!" Sturm said irritably.
Tanis could see Tasslehoff turning this way and that, searching for them. The 
half-elf reached down, fumbling for a rock in the darkness. Finding one, he 
lobbed it into the water. It splashed just a few yards ahead of the boat. Tas, 
reacting to Tanis's signal, propelled the boat to shore.
"You're going to put all of us in one boat!" Flint said in horror. "You're mad, 
half-elf!"
"It's a big boat," Tanis said.
"No! I won't go. If it were one of the legendary white-winged boats of Tarsis, I 
still wouldn't go! I'd rather take my chances with the Theocrat!"
Tanis ignored the fuming dwarf and motioned to Sturm. "Get everyone loaded up. 
We'll be along in a moment."
"Don't take too long," Sturm warned. "Listen."
"I can hear," Tanis said grimly. "Go on."
"What are those sounds?" Goldmoon asked the knight as he came up to her.
"Goblin search parties," Sturm answered. "Those whistles keep them in contact 
when they're separated. They're moving into the woods now."
Goldmoon nodded in understanding. She spoke a few words to Riverwind in their 
own language, apparently continuing a conversation Sturm had interrupted. The 
big Plainsman frowned and gestured back toward the forest with his hand.
He's trying to convince her to split with us, Sturm realized. Maybe he's got 
enough woodslore to hide from goblin search parties for days, but I doubt it.
"Riverwind, gue-lando" Goldmoon said sharply. Sturm saw Riverwind scowl in 
anger. Without a word, he turned and stalked toward the boat. Goldmoon sighed 
and looked after him, deep sorrow in her face.
"Can I do anything to help, lady?" Sturm asked gently.
"No," she replied. Then she said sadly, as if to herself, "He rules my heart, 
but I am his ruler. Once, when we were young, we thought we could forget that. 
But I have been 'Chieftains Daughter' too long."
"Why doesn't he trust us?" Sturm asked.
"He has all the prejudices of our people," Goldmoon replied.
"The Plainsmen do not trust those who are not human." She glanced back. "Tanis 
cannot hide his elven blood beneath a beard. Then there are the dwarf, the 
kender."
"And what of you, lady?" Sturm asked. "Why do you trust us? Don't you have these 
same prejudices?"
Goldmoon turned to face him. He could see her eyes, dark and shimmering as the 
lake behind her. "When I was a girl," she said in her deep, low voice, "I was a 
princess of my people. I was a priestess. They worshipped me as a goddess. I 
believed in it. I adored it. Then something happened.... " She fell silent, her 
eyes filled with memories.
"What was that?" Sturm prompted softly.
"I fell in love with a shepherd," Goldmoon answered, looking at Riverwind. She 
sighed and walked toward the boat.
Sturm watched Riverwind wade into the water to drag the boat closer to shore as 
Raistlin and Caramon reached the water's edge. Raistlin clutched his robes 
around him, shivering.
"I can't get my feet wet," he whispered hoarsely. Caramon did not reply. He 
simply put his huge arms around his brother, lifted him as easily as he would 
have lifted a child, and set Raistlin in the boat. The mage huddled in the aft 
part of the boat, not saying a word of thanks.
"I'll hold her steady," Caramon told Riverwind. "You get in." Riverwind 
hesitated a moment, then climbed quickly over the side. Caramon helped Goldmoon 
into the boat. Riverwind caught hold of her and steadied her as the boat rocked 
gently. The Plainsmen moved to sit in the stern, behind Tasslehoff.
Caramon turned to Sturm as the knight drew near. "What's happening back there?"
"Flint says he'll burn before he'll get in a boat-at least then he'll die warm 
instead of wet and cold."
"I'll go up and haul him down here," Caramon said.
"You'd only make things worse. You were the one that nearly drowned him, 
remember? Let Tanis handle it-he's the diplomat."
Caramon nodded. Both men stood, waiting in silence. Sturm saw Goldmoon look at 
Riverwind in mute appeal, but the Plainsman did not heed her glance. Tasslehoff, 
fidgeting on his seat, started to call out a shrill question, but a stern look 
from the knight silenced him. Raistlin huddled in his robes, trying to suppress 
an uncontrollable cough.
"I'm going up there," Sturm said finally. "Those whistles are getting closer. We 
don't dare take any more time." But at that moment, he saw Tanis shake hands 
with the dwarf, and begin to run toward the boat alone. Flint stayed where he 
was, near the edge of the woods. Sturm shook his head. "I told Tanis the dwarf 
wouldn't come."
"Stubborn as a dwarf, so the old saying goes," Caramon grunted. "And that one's 
had one hundred and forty-eight years to grow stubborner." The big man shook his 
head sadly.
"Well, we'll miss him, that's for certain. He's saved my life more than once. 
Let me go get him. One punch on the jaw and he won't know whether he's in a boat 
or his own bed."
Tanis ran up, panting, and heard the last comment. "No, Caramon," he said. 
"Flint would never forgive us. Don't worry about him. He's going back to the 
hills. Get in the boat. There are more lights coming this way. We left a trail 
through the forest a blind gully dwarf could follow."
"No sense all of us getting wet," Caramon said, holding the side of the boat. 
"You and Sturm get in. I'll shove off."
Sturm was already over the side. Tanis patted Caramon on the back, then climbed 
in. The warrior pushed the boat out into the lake. He was up to his knees in 
water when they heard a call from the shore.
"Hold it!" It was Flint, running down from the trees, a vague moving shape of 
blackness against the moonlit shoreline. "Hang on! I'm coming!"
"Stop!" Tanis cried. "Caramon! Wait for Flint!"
"Look!" Sturm half-rose, pointing. Lights had appeared in the trees, smoking 
torches held by goblin guards.
"Goblins, Flint!" Tanis yelled. "Behind you! Run!" The dwarf, never questioning, 
put his head down and pumped for the shore, one hand on his helm to keep it from 
flying off.
"I'll cover him," Tanis said, unslinging his bow. With his elvensight, he was 
the only one who could see the goblins behind the torches. Fitting an arrow to 
his bow, Tanis stood as Caramon held the big boat steady. Tanis fired at the 
outline of the lead goblin. The arrow struck it in the chest and it pitched 
forward on its face. The other goblins slowed slightly, reaching for their own 
bows. Tanis fitted another arrow to his bow as Flint reached the shoreline.
"Wait! I'm coming!" the dwarf gasped and he plunged into the water and sank like 
a rock.
"Grab him!" Sturm yelled. "Tas, row back. There he is! See? The bubbles-" 
Caramon was splashing frantically in the water, hunting for the dwarf. Tas tried 
to row back, but the weight in the boat was too much for the kender. Tanis fired 
again, missed his mark, and swore beneath his breath. He reached for another 
arrow. The goblins were swarming down the hillside.
"I've got him!" Caramon shouted, pulling the dripping, spluttering dwarf out by 
the collar of his leather tunic. "Quit struggling," he told Flint, whose arms 
were flailing out in all directions. But the dwarf was in a complete state of 
panic. A goblin arrow thunked into Caramon's chain mail and stuck there like a 
scrawny feather.
"That does it!" The warrior grunted in exasperation and, with a great heave of 
his muscular arms, he pitched the dwarf into the boat as it moved out away from 
him. Flint caught hold of a seat and held on, his lower half sticking out over 
the edge. Sturm grabbed him by the belt and dragged him aboard as the boat 
rocked alarmingly. Tanis nearly lost his balance and was forced to drop his bow 
and catch hold of the side to keep from being thrown into the water. A goblin 
arrow stuck into the gunwale, just barely missing Tanis's hand.
"Row back to Caramon, Tas!" Tanis yelled.
"I can't!" shouted the struggling kender. One swipe of an out-of-control oar 
nearly knocked Sturm overboard.
The knight yanked the kender from his seat. He grabbed the oars and smoothly 
brought the boat around to where Caramon could get hold of the side.
Tanis helped the warrior climb in, then yelled to Sturm, "Pull!" The knight 
pulled on the oars with all his strength, leaning over backward as he thrust the 
oars deep into the water. The boat shot away from shore, accompanied by the 
howls of angry goblins. More arrows whizzed around the boat as Caramon, dripping 
wet, plopped down next to Tanis.
"Goblin target practice tonight," Caramon muttered, pulling the arrow from his 
mail shirt. "We show up beautifully against the water."
Tanis was fumbling for his dropped bow when he noticed Raistlin sitting up. 
"Take cover!" Tanis warned, and Caramon started to reach for his brother, but 
the mage, scowling at both of them, slipped his hand into a pouch on his belt. 
His delicate fingers drew out a handful of something as an arrow struck the seat 
next to him. Raistlin did not react. Tanis started to pull the mage down, then 
realized he was lost in the concentration necessary to a magic-user casting a 
spell. Disturbing him now might have drastic consequences, causing the mage to 
forget the spell or worse-to miscast the spell.
Tanis gritted his teeth and watched. Raistlin lifted his thin, frail hand and 
allowed the spell component he had taken from his pouch to fall slowly from 
between his fingers onto the deck of the boat. Sand, Tanis realized.
"Ast tasarak sinwalan krynawi," Raistlin murmured, and then moved his right hand 
slowly in an arc parallel to the shore.
Tanis looked back toward land. One by one, the goblins dropped their bows and 
toppled over, as though Raistlin were touching each in turn. The arrows ceased. 
Goblins farther away howled in rage and ran forward. But by that time, Sturm's 
powerful strokes had carried the boat out of range.
"Good work, little brother!" Caramon said heartily. Raistlin blinked and seemed 
to return to the world, then the mage sank forward. Caramon caught him and held 
him for a moment. Then Raistlin sat up and sucked in a deep breath, which caused 
him to cough.
"I'll be all right," he whispered, withdrawing from Caramon.
"What did you do to them?" asked Tanis as he searched for enemy arrows to drop 
them overboard; goblins occasionally poisoned the arrowtips.
"I put them to sleep," Raistlin hissed through teeth that clicked together with 
the cold. "And now I must rest." He sank back against the side of the boat.
Tanis looked at the mage. Raistlin had, indeed, gained in power and skill. I 
wish I could trust him, the half-elf thought.
The boat moved across the star-filled lake. The only sounds to be heard were the 
soft, rhythmic plashing of the oars in the water and Raistlin's dry, wracking 
cough. Tasslehoff uncorked the wineskin, which Flint had somehow retained on his 
wild dash, and tried to get the chilled, shivering dwarf to swallow a mouthful. 
But Flint, crouched at the bottom of the boat, could only shudder and stare out 
across the water.
Goldmoon sank deeper into her fur cape. She wore the soft doeskin breeches of 
her people with a fringed overskirt and belted tunic. Her boots were made of 
soft leather. Water had sloshed over the edge of the boat when Caramon had 
thrown Flint aboard. The water made the doeskin cling to her, and soon she was 
chilled and shivering.
"Take my cape," Riverwind said in their language, starting to remove his 
bearskin cloak.
"No." She shook her head. "You have been suffering from the fever. I never get 
sick, you know that. But"-she looked up at him and smiled-"you may put your arm 
around me, warrior. The heat from our bodies will warm us both."
"Is that a royal command. Chieftain's Daughter?" Riverwind whispered teasingly, 
drawing her close to him.
"It is," she said, leaning against his strong body with a sigh of contentment. 
She looked up into the starry heavens, then stiffened and caught her breath in 
alarm.
"What is it?" Riverwind asked, staring up.
The others in the boat, although they had not understood the exchange, heard 
Goldmoon's gasp and saw her eyes transfixed by something in the night sky.
Caramon poked his brother and said, "Raist, what is it? I don't see anything."
Raistlin sat up, cast back his hood, then coughed. When the spasm passed, he 
searched the night sky. Then he stiffened, and his eyes widened. Reaching out 
with his thin, bony hand, Raistlin clutched Tanis's arm, holding onto it tightly 
as the half-elf involuntarily tried to pull away from the mage's skeletal grip. 
"Tanis . . ." Raistlin wheezed, his breath nearly gone. "The constellations . . 
."
"What?" Tanis was truly startled by the pallor of the mage's metallic gold skin 
and the feverish luster of his strange eyes. "What about the constellations?"
"Gone!" rasped Raistlin and lapsed into a fit of coughing. Caramon put his arm 
around him, holding him close, almost as if the big man were trying to hold his 
brother's frail body together. Raistlin recovered, wiped his mouth with his 
hand. Tanis saw that his, fingers were dark with blood. Raistlin took a deep 
breath, then spoke.
"The constellation known as the Queen of Darkness and the one called Valiant 
Warrior. Both gone. She has come to Krynn, Tanis, and he has come to fight her. 
All the evil rumors we have heard are true. War, death, destruction . . ." His 
voice died in another fit of coughing.
Caramon held him. "C'mon, Raist," he said soothingly.
"Don't get so worked up. It's only a bunch of stars."
"Only a bunch of stars," Tanis repeated flatly. Sturm began to row again, 
pulling swiftly for the opposite bank.
 
 
6
Night in a cave.
Dissension. Tanis decides.
 
A chill wind began to blow across the lake. Storm clouds rolled across the sky 
from the north, obliterating the gaping black holes left by the fallen stars. 
The companions hunched down in the boat, pulling their cloaks tighter around 
them as the rain spattered down. Caramon joined Sturm at the oars. The big 
warrior tried to talk to the knight, but Sturm ignored him. He rowed in grim 
silence, occasionally muttering to himself in Solamnic.
"Sturm! There-between the great rocks to the left!" Tanis called out, pointing.
Sturm and Caramon pulled hard. The rain made sighting the landmark rocks 
difficult and, for a moment, it seemed that they had lost their way in the 
darkness. Then the rocks suddenly loomed ahead. Sturm and Caramon brought the 
boat around. Tanis sprang out over the side and pulled it to shore. Torrents of 
rain lashed down. The companions climbed from the boat, wet and chilled. They 
had to lift the dwarf out-Flint was stiff as a dead goblin from fear. Riverwind 
and Caramon hid the boat in the thick underbrush. Tanis led the rest up a rocky 
trail to a small opening in the cliff face.
Goldmoon looked at the opening dubiously. It seemed to be no more than a large 
crack in the surface of the cliff. Inside, however, the cave was large enough 
for all of them to stretch out comfortably.
"Nice home." Tasslehoff glanced around. "Not much in the way of furniture."
Tanis grinned at the kender. "It will do for the night. I don't think even the 
dwarf will complain about this. If he does, we'll send him back to sleep in the 
boat!"
Tas flashed his own smile back at the half-elf. It was good to see the old Tanis 
back. He had thought his friend unusually moody and indecisive, not the strong 
leader he had remembered from earlier days. Yet, now that they were on the road, 
the glint was back in the half-elf's eyes. He had come out of his brooding shell 
and was taking charge, slipping back into his accustomed role. He needed this 
adventure to get his mind off his problems -whatever those might be. The kender, 
who had never been able to understand Tanis's inner turmoil, was glad this 
adventure had come along.
Caramon carried his brother from the boat and laid him down as gently as he 
could on the soft warm sand that covered the floor of the cave while Riverwind 
started a fire. The wet wood crackled and spit, but soon caught fire. The smoke 
curled up toward the ceiling and drifted out through a crack. The Plainsman 
covered the cave's entrance with brush and fallen tree branches, hiding the 
light of the fire and effectively keeping out the rain.
He fits in well, Tanis thought as he watched the barbarian work. He could almost 
be one of us. Sighing, the half-elf turned his attention to Raistlin. Kneeling 
down beside him, he looked at the young mage with concern. Raistlin's pale face 
reflected in the flickering firelight reminded the half-elf of the time he and 
Flint and Caramon had barely rescued Raistlin from a vicious mob, intent on 
burning the mage at the stake. Raistlin had attempted to expose a charlatan 
cleric who was bilking the villagers out of their money. Instead of turning on 
the cleric, the villagers had turned on Raistlin. As Tanis had told Flint-people 
wanted to believe in something.
Caramon busied himself around his brother, placing his own heavy cloak over his 
shoulders. Raistlin's body was wracked by coughing spasms and blood trickled 
from his mouth. His eyes gleamed feverishly. Goldmoon knelt beside him, a cup of 
wine in her hand.
"Can you drink this?" she asked him gently.
Raistlin shook his head, tried to speak, coughed and pushed her hand away. 
Goldmoon looked up at Tanis. "Perhaps-my staff?" she asked.
"No." Raistlin choked. He motioned for Tanis to come near him. Even sitting next 
to him, Tanis could barely hear the mage's words, his broken sentences were 
interrupted by great gasps for air and fits of coughing. "The staff will not 
heal me, Tanis," he whispered. "Do not waste it on me. If it is a blessed 
artifact... its sacred power is limited. My body was my sacrifice ... for my 
magic. This damage is permanent. Nothing can help. . . ." His voice died, his 
eyes closed.
The fire suddenly flared as wind whirled around the cavern. Tanis looked up to 
see Sturm pulling the brush aside and entering the cave, half-carrying Flint, 
who stumbled along on unsteady feet. Sturm dumped him down beside the fire. Both 
were soaking wet. Sturm was clearly out of patience with the dwarf and, as Tanis 
noted, with the entire group. Tanis watched him with concern, recognizing the 
signs of a dark depression that sometimes overwhelmed the knight. Sturm liked 
the orderly, the well-disciplined. The disappearance of the stars-the 
disturbance of the natural order of things-had shaken him badly.
Tasslehoff wrapped a blanket around the dwarf who sat huddled on the cave floor, 
his teeth chattering in his head so that his helm rattled. "B-b-b-boat. . ." was 
all he could say. Tas poured him a cup of wine which the dwarf drank greedily.
Sturm looked at Flint in disgust. "I'll take the first watch," he said and moved 
toward the mouth of the cave.
Riverwind rose to his feet. "I will watch with you," he said harshly.
Sturm froze, then turned slowly to face the tall Plainsman. Tanis could see the 
knight's face, etched in sharp relief by the firelight, dark lines carved around 
the stern mouth. Although shorter in stature than Riverwind, the knight's air of 
nobility and the rigidity of his stance made the two appear almost equal.
"I am a Knight of Solamnia," Sturm said. "My word is my honor and my honor is my 
life. I gave my word, back in the Inn, that I would protect you and your lady. 
If you choose to dispute my word, you dispute my honor and therefore you insult 
me. I cannot allow that insult to remain between us."
"Sturm!" Tanis was on his feet.
Never taking his eyes from the Plainsman, the knight raised his hand. "Don't 
interfere, Tanis," Sturm said. "Well, what will it be-swords, knives? How do you 
barbarians fight?"
Riverwind's stoic expression did not change. He regarded the knight with 
intense, dark eyes. Then he spoke, choosing his words carefully. "I did not mean 
to question your honor. I do not know men and their cities, and I tell you 
plainly-I am afraid. It is my fear that makes me speak thus. I have been afraid 
ever since the blue crystal staff was given to me. Most of all, I am afraid for 
Goldmoon." The Plainsman looked over at the woman, his eyes reflecting the 
glowing fire. "Without her, I die. How could I trust-" His voice failed. The 
stoic mask cracked and crumbled from pain and weariness. His knees buckled and 
he pitched forward. Sturm caught him.
"You couldn't," the knight said. "I understand. You are tired, and you have been 
sick." He helped Tanis lay the Plainsman at the back of the cave. "Rest now. I 
will stand watch." The knight shoved aside the brush, and without saying another 
word, stepped outside into the rain.
Goldmoon had listened to the altercation in silence. Now she moved their meagre 
possessions to the back of the cave and knelt down by Riverwind's side. He put 
his arm around her and held her close, burying his face in her silver-gold hair. 
The two settled in the shadows of the cave. Wrapped in Riverwind's fur cape, 
they were soon asleep, Goldmoon's head resting on her warrior's chest.
Tanis breathed a sigh of relief and turned back to Raistlin. The mage had fallen 
into a fitful sleep. Sometimes he murmured strange words in the language of 
magic, his hand reaching out to touch his staff. Tanis glanced around at the 
others. Tasslehoff was sitting near the fire, sorting through his "acquired" 
objects. He sat cross-legged, the treasures on the cave floor in front of him. 
Tanis could make out glittering rings, a few unusual coins, a feather from the 
goatsucker bird, pieces of twine, a bead necklace, a soap doll, and a whistle. 
One of the rings looked familiar. It was a ring of elven make, given Tanis a 
long time ago by someone he kept on the borders of his mind. It was a finely 
carved, delicate ring of golden, clinging ivy leaves.
Tanis crept over to the kender, walking softly to keep from waking the others. 
"Tas ..." He tapped the kender on the shoulder and pointed. "My ring . . ."
"Is it?" asked Tasslehoff with wide-eyed innocence. "Is this yours? I'm glad I 
found it. You must have dropped it at the Inn."
Tanis took the ring with a wry smile, then settled down next to the kender. 
"Have you got a map of this area, Tas?"
The kender's eyes shone. "A map? Yes, Tanis. Of course." He swept up all his 
valuables, dumped them back into a pouch, and pulled a handcarved, wooden scroll 
case from another pouch. He drew forth a sheaf of maps. Tanis had seen the 
kender's collection before, but it never failed to astonish him. There must have 
been a hundred, drawn on everything from fine parchment to soft kid leather to a 
huge palmetto leaf.
"I thought you knew every tree personally around these parts, Tanis." Tasslehoff 
sorted through his maps, his eyes occasionally lingering on a favorite.
The half-elf shook his head. "I've lived here many years," he said. "But, let's 
face it, I don't know any of the dark and secret paths."
"You won't find many to Haven." Tas pulled a map from his pile and smoothed it 
out on the cave floor. "The Haven Road through Solace Vale is quickest, that's 
for certain."
Tanis studied the map by the light of the dying campfire. "You're right," he 
said. "The road is not only quickest -it seems to be the only passable route for 
several miles ahead. Both south and north of us lie the Kharolis Mountains-no 
passes there." Frowning, Tanis rolled up the map and handed it back. "Which is 
exactly what the Theocrat will figure."
Tasslehoff yawned. "Well," he said, putting the map back carefully into the 
case, "it's a problem that will be solved by wiser heads than mine. I'm along 
for the fun." Tucking the case back into a pouch, the kender lay down on the 
cave floor, drew his legs up beneath his chin, and was soon sleeping the 
peaceful sleep of small children and animals.
Tanis looked at him with envy. Although aching with weariness, he couldn't relax 
enough for sleep. Most of the others had dropped off, all but the warrior 
watching over his brother.
Tanis walked over to Caramon.
"Turn in," he whispered. "I'll watch Raistlin."
"No," the big warrior said. Reaching out, he gently pulled a cloak up closer 
around his brother's shoulders. "He might need me."
"But you've got to get some sleep."
"I will." Caramon grinned. "Go get some sleep yourself, nursemaid. Your children 
are fine. Look-even the dwarf is out cold."
"I don't have to look," Tanis said. "The Theocrat can probably hear him snoring 
in Solace. Well, my friend, this reunion was not much like we planned five years 
ago."
"What is?" Caramon asked softly, glancing down at his brother.
Tanis patted the man's arm, then lay down and rolled up in his own cloak and, at 
last, fell asleep.
The night passed-slowly for those on watch, swiftly for those asleep. Caramon 
relieved Sturm. Tanis relieved Caramon. The storm continued unabated all night, 
the wind whipping the lake into a white-capped sea. Lightning branched through 
the darkness like flaming trees. Thunder rumbled continually. The storm finally 
blew itself out by morning, and the half-elf watched day dawn, gray and chill. 
The rain had ended, but storm clouds still hung low. No sun appeared in the sky.
Tanis felt a growing sense of urgency. He could see no end to the storm clouds 
massing to the north. Autumn storms were rare, especially ones with this 
ferocity. The wind was bitter, too, and it seemed odd that the storm came out of 
the north, when they generally swept east, across the Plains. Sensitive to the 
ways of nature, the strange weather upset Tanis nearly as much as Raistlin's 
fallen stars. He felt a need to get going, even though it was early morning yet. 
He went inside to wake the others.
The cave was chill and gloomy in the gray dawn, despite the crackling fire. 
Goldmoon and Tasslehoff were fixing breakfast. Riverwind stood in the back of 
the cave, shaking out Goldmoon's fur cloak. Tanis glanced at him. The Plainsman 
had been about to say something to Goldmoon as Tanis entered, but fell silent, 
contenting himself with staring at her meaning-fully as he continued his work. 
Goldmoon kept her eyes lowered, her face pale and troubled. The barbarian 
regrets having let himself go last night, Tanis realized.
"There is not much food, I'm afraid," Goldmoon said, tossing cereal into a pot 
of boiling water.
"Tika's larder wasn't well stocked," Tasslehoff added in apology. "We've got a 
loaf of bread, some dried beef, half a moldy cheese, and the oatmeal. Tika must 
eat her meals out."
"Riverwind and I didn't bring any provisions," Goldmoon said. "We really didn't 
expect to make this trip."
Tanis was about to ask her more about her song and the staff, but the others 
started waking up as they smelled food. Caramon yawned, stretched, and stood up. 
Walking over to peer into the cook-pot, he groaned. "Oatmeal? Is that all?"
"There'll be less for dinner." Tasslehoff grinned. "Tighten your belt. You're 
gaining weight anyhow."
The big man sighed dismally.
The sparse breakfast was cheerless in the cold dawn. Sturm, refusing all offers 
of food, went outside to keep watch. Tanis could see the knight, sitting on a 
rock, staring gloomily at the dark clouds that trailed wispy fingers along the 
still water of the lake. Caramon ate his share of the food quickly, gulped down 
his brother's portion, and then appropriated Sturm's when the knight walked out. 
Then the big man sat, watching wistfully while the rest finished.
"You gonna eat that?" he asked, pointing to Flint's share of bread. The dwarf 
scowled. Tasslehoff, seeing the warrior's eyes roam over to his plate, crammed 
his bread into his mouth, nearly choking himself in the process. At least it 
kept him quiet, Tanis thought, glad for the respite from the kender's shrill 
voice. Tas had been teasing Flint unmercifully all morning, calling him 
"Seamaster" and "Shipmate," asking him the price of fish, and how much he would 
charge to ferry them back across the lake. Flint finally threw a rock at him and 
Tanis sent Tas down to the lake to scrub out the pans.
The half-elf walked to the back of the cave.
"How are you this morning, Raistlin?" he asked. "We're going to have to be 
moving out soon."
"I am much better," the mage replied in his soft, whispering voice. He was 
drinking some herbal concoction of his own make. Tanis could see small, feathery 
green leaves floating in steaming water. It gave off a bitter, acrid odor and 
Raistlin grimaced as he swallowed it.
Tasslehoff came bounding back into the cave, pots and tin plates clattering 
loudly. Tanis gritted his teeth at the noise, started to reprimand the kender, 
then changed his mind. It wouldn't do any good.
Flint, seeing the tension on Tanis's face, grabbed the pots from the kender and 
began packing them away. "Be serious," the dwarf hissed at Tasslehoff. "Or I'll 
take you by the topknot and tie you to a tree as a warning to all kenders-"
Tas reached out and plucked something from the dwarf's beard. "Look!" the kender 
held it up gleefully. "Seaweed!" Flint, roaring, made a grab for the kender, but 
Tas skipped out of his way agilely.
There was a rustling sound as Sturm shoved aside the brush covering the doorway. 
His face was dark and brooding.
"Stop this!" Sturm said, glowering at Flint and Tas, his moustaches quivering. 
His dour gaze turned on Tanis. "I could hear these two clear down by the lake. 
They'll have every goblin in Krynn on us. We've got to get out of here. Well, 
which way are we headed?"
An uneasy silence fell. Everyone stopped what he was doing and looked at Tanis, 
with the exception of Raistlin. The mage was wiping his cup out with a white 
cloth, cleaning it fastidiously. He continued working, eyes downcast, as though 
totally uninterested.
Tanis sighed and scratched his beard. "The Theocrat in Solace is corrupt. We 
know that now. He is using the goblin scum to take control. If he had the staff, 
he would use it for his own profit. We've searched for a sign of the true gods 
for years. It seems we may have found one. I am not about to hand it over to 
that Solace fraud. Tika said she believed the Highseekers in Haven were still 
interested in the truth. They may be able to tell us about the staff, where it 
came from, what its powers are. Tas, give me the map."
The kender, spilling the contents of several pouches onto the floor, finally 
produced the parchment requested.
"We are here, on the west bank of Crystalmir," Tanis continued. "North and south 
of us are branches of the Kharolis Mountains which form the boundaries of Solace 
Vale. There are no known passes through either range except through Gateway Pass 
south of Solace-"
"Almost certainly held by the goblins," muttered Sturm. "There are passes to the 
northeast-"
"That's across the lake!" Flint said in horror.
"Yes"-Tanis kept a straight face-"across the lake. But those lead to the Plains, 
and I don't believe you want to go that direction." He glanced at Goldmoon and 
Riverwind. "The west road goes through the Sentinel Peaks and Shadow Canyon to 
Haven. That seems to me the obvious direction to take."
Sturm frowned. "And if the Highseekers there are as bad as the one in Solace?"
"Then we continue south to Qualinesti."
"Qualinesti?" Riverwind scowled. "The Elven Lands? No! Humans are forbidden to 
enter. Besides, the way is hidden-"
A rasping, hissing sound cut into the discussion. Everyone turned to face 
Raistlin as he spoke. "There is a way." His voice was soft and mocking; his 
golden eyes glittered in the cold light of dawn. "The paths of Darken Wood. They 
lead right to Qualinesti."
"Darken Wood?" Caramon repeated in alarm. "No, Tanis!"
The warrior shook his head. "I'll fight the living any day of the week-but not 
the dead!"
"The dead?" Tasslehoff asked eagerly. "Tell me, Caramon-"
"Shut up, Tas!" Sturm snapped. "Darken Wood is madness. None who enter have ever 
returned. You would have us take this prize there, mage?"
"Hold!" Tanis spoke sharply. Everyone fell silent. Even Sturm quieted. The 
knight looked at Tanis's calm, thoughtful face, the almond-shaped eyes that held 
the wisdom of his many years of wandering. The knight had often tried to resolve 
within himself why he accepted Tanis's leadership. He was nothing more than a 
bastard half-elf, after all. He did not come of noble blood. He wore no armor, 
carried no shield with a proud emblem. Yet Sturm followed him, and loved him and 
respected him as he respected no other living man.
Life was a dark shroud to the Solamnic Knight. He could not pretend to ever know 
or understand it except through the code of the knights he lived by. "Est 
Sularus oth Mithas"- "My honor is life." The code defined honor and was more 
complete and detailed and strict than any known on Krynn. The code had held true 
for seven hundred years, but Sturm's secret fear was that, someday, in the final 
battle, the code would have no answers. He knew that if that day came, Tanis 
would be at his side, holding the crumbling world together. For while Sturm 
followed the code, Tanis lived it.
Tanis's voice brought the knight's thoughts back to the present. "I remind all 
of you that this staff is not our 'prize.' The staff rightfully belongs to 
Goldmoon-if it belongs to anyone. We have no more right to it than the Theocrat 
in Solace." Tanis turned to Goldmoon. "What is your will, lady?"
Goldmoon stared from Tanis to Sturm, then she looked at Riverwind. "You know my 
mind," he said coldly. "But-you are Chieftain's Daughter." He rose to his feet. 
Ignoring her pleading gaze, he stalked outside.
"What did he mean?" Tanis asked.
"He wants us to leave you, take the staff to Haven," Goldmoon answered, her 
voice low. "He says you are adding to our danger. We would be safer on our own."
"Adding to your danger!" Flint exploded. "Why we wouldn't be here, I wouldn't 
have nearly drowned- again!-if it hadn't been for-for-" The dwarf began to 
sputter in his rage.
Tanis held up his hand. "Enough." He scratched his beard. "You will be safer 
with us. Will you accept our help?"
"I will," Goldmoon answered gravely, "for a short distance at least."
"Good," Tanis said. "Tas, you know your way through Solace Vale. You are guide. 
And remember, we're not on a picnic!"
"Yes, Tanis," the kender said, subdued. He gathered his many pouches, hung them 
around his waist and over his shoulders. Passing Goldmoon, he knelt swiftly and 
patted her hand, then he was out the cave entrance. The rest hastily gathered 
their gear together and followed.
"It's going to rain again," Flint grumbled, glancing up at the lowering clouds. 
"I should have stayed in Solace." Muttering, he walked off, adjusting his 
battle-axe on his back. Tanis, waiting for Goldmoon and Riverwind, smiled and 
shook his head. At least some things never changed, dwarves among them.
Riverwind took their packs from Goldmoon and slung them over his shoulder. "I 
have made certain the boat is well-hidden and secure," he told Tanis. The stoic 
mask was in place again this morning. "In case we need it."
"A good idea," Tanis said. "Thank-"
"If you will go ahead." Riverwind motioned. "I will come behind and cover our 
tracks."
Tanis started to speak, to thank the Plainsman. But Riverwind had already turned 
his back and was beginning his work. Walking up the path, the half-elf shook his 
head. Behind him, he could hear Goldmoon speaking softly in her own language. 
Riverwind replied-one, harsh word. Tanis heard Goldmoon sigh, then all other 
words were lost in the sound of crackling brush as Riverwind obliterated all 
traces of their passing.
 
 
7
The story of the staff.
Strange clerics. Eerie feelings.
 
The thick woods of Solace Vale were a green mass of vibrant life. Beneath the 
dense roof of the vallenwoods flourished thistlebrush and greenwall. The ground 
was crisscrossed with the bothersome tangleshoot vines. These had to be trod on 
with great care or they would suddenly snake around an ankle, trapping the 
helpless victim until he was devoured by one of the many predatory animals 
lurking in the Vale, thus providing the tangleshoot with what it needed to 
live-blood.
It took over an hour of hacking and chopping through the brush to get to the 
Haven Road. All of them were scratched, torn, and tired, and the long stretch of 
smooth-packed dirt that carried travelers to Haven or beyond was a welcome 
sight. It wasn't until they stopped just in sight of the road and rested that 
they realized there were no sounds. A hush had fallen over the land, as if every 
creature were holding its breath, waiting. Now that they had reached the road, 
no one was particularly eager to step out of the shelter of the brush.
"Do you think it's safe?" Caramon asked, peering through a hedge.
"Safe or not, it's the way we have to go," Tanis snapped, "unless you can fly or 
unless you want to go back into the forest. It took us an hour to travel a few 
hundred yards. We ought to reach the crossroads next week at that pace."
The big man flushed, chagrined. "I didn't mean-"
"I'm sorry." Tanis sighed. He too looked down the road. The great vallenwoods 
formed a dark corridor in the gray light. "I don't like it any better than you 
do."
"Do we separate or stay together?" Sturm interrupted what he considered idle 
chatter with cold practicality.
"We stay together," Tanis replied. Then, after a moment, he added, "Still, 
someone ought to scout-"
"I will, Tanis," Tas volunteered, popping up out of the brush beneath Tanis's 
elbow. "No one would ever suspect a kender traveling alone."
Tanis frowned. Tas was right-no one would suspect him. Kenders were all 
afflicted with wanderlust, traveling throughout Krynn in search of adventure. 
But Tas had the disconcerting habit of forgetting his mission and wandering off 
if something more interesting caught his attention.
"Very well," Tanis said finally. "But, remember, Tasslehoff Burrfoot, keep your 
eyes open and your wits about you. No roaming off the road and above all"-Tanis 
fixed the kender's eye with his own sternly-"keep your hands out of other 
people's belongings."
"Unless they're bakers," Caramon added.
Tas giggled, pushed his way through the final few feet of brush, and started off 
down the road, his hoopak staff digging holes in the mud, his pouches jouncing 
up and down as he walked. They heard his voice lift in a kender trailsong.
 
Your one true love's a sailing ship
That anchors at our pier.
We lift her sails, we man her decks,
We scrub the portholes clear;
And yes, our lighthouse shines for her,
And yes, our shores are warm;
We steer her into harbor-
Any port in a storm.
The sailors stand upon the docks,
The sailors stand in line,
As thirsty as a dwarf for gold
Or centaurs for cheap wine.
For all the sailors love her,
And flock to where she's moored,
Each man hoping that he might
Go down, all hands on board.
 
Tanis, grinning, allowed a few minutes to pass after hearing the last verse of 
Tas's song before starting out. Finally they stepped out on the road with as 
much fear as a troupe of unskilled actors facing a hostile audience. It felt as 
if every eye on Krynn was on them.
The deep shade under the flame-colored leaves made it impossible to see anything 
in the woods even a few feet from the road. Sturm walked ahead of the group, 
alone, in bitter silence. Tanis knew that though the knight held his head 
proudly, he was slogging through his own darkness. Caramon and Raistlin 
followed. Tanis kept his eyes on the mage, concerned about his ability to keep 
up.
Raistlin had experienced some difficulty in getting through the brush, but he 
was moving along well now. He leaned on his staff with one hand, holding open a 
book with the other. Tanis at first wondered what the mage was studying, then 
realized it was his spellbook. It is the curse of the magi that they must 
constantly study and recommit their spells to memory every day. The words of 
magic flame in the mind, then flicker and die when the spell is cast. Each spell 
burns up some of the magician's physical and mental energy until he is totally 
exhausted and must rest before he can use his magic again.
Flint stumped along on the other side of Caramon. The two began to argue softly 
about the ten-year-old boating accident.
"Trying to catch a fish with your bare hands-" Flint grumbled his disgust.
Tanis came last, walking next to the Plainsmen. He turned his attention to 
Goldmoon. Seeing her clearly in the flecked gray light beneath the trees, he 
noticed lines around her eyes that made her appear older than her twenty-nine 
years.
"Our lives have not been easy," Goldmoon confided to him as they walked. 
"Riverwind and I have loved each other many years, but it is the law of my 
people that a warrior who wants to marry his chieftain's daughter must perform 
some great feat to prove himself worthy. It was worse with us. Riverwind's 
family was cast out of our tribe years ago for refusing to worship our 
ancestors. His grandfather believed in ancient gods who had existed before the 
Cataclysm, though he could find little evidence of them left on Krynn.
"My father was determined I should not marry so far beneath my station. He sent 
Riverwind on an impossible quest-to find some object with holy properties that 
would prove the existence of these ancient gods. Of course, my father didn't 
believe such an object existed. He hoped Riverwind would meet his death, or that 
I would come to love another." She looked up at the tall warrior walking beside 
her and smiled. But his face was hard, his eyes staring far away. Her smile 
faded. Sighing, she continued her story, speaking softly, more to herself than 
Tanis.
"Riverwind was gone long years. And my life was empty. I sometimes thought my 
heart would die. Then, just a week ago, he returned. He was half-dead, out of 
his mind with a raging fever. He stumbled into camp and fell at my feet, his 
skin burning to the touch. In his hand, he clutched this staff. We had to pry 
his fingers loose. Even unconscious, he would not release it.
"He raved in his fever about a dark place, a broken city where death had black 
wings. Then, when he was nearly wild with fear and terror and the servants had 
to tie his arms to the bed, he remembered a woman, a woman dressed in blue 
light.
She came to him in the dark place, he said, and healed him and gave him the 
staff. When he remembered her, he grew calmer and his fever broke.
"Two days ago-" She paused, had it really been only two days? It seemed a 
lifetime! Sighing, she continued. "He presented the staff to my father, telling 
him it had been given to him by a goddess, though he did not know her name. My 
father looked at this staff" -Goldmoon held it up-"and commanded it to do 
something -anything. Nothing happened. He threw it back to Riverwind, 
proclaiming him a fraud, and ordered the people to stone him to death as 
punishment for his blasphemy!"
Goldmoon's face grew pale as she spoke, Riverwind's face dark and shadowed.
"The tribe bound Riverwind and dragged him to the Grieving Wall," she said, 
barely speaking above a whisper. "They started hurling rocks. He looked at me 
with so much love and he shouted that not even death would separate us. I 
couldn't bear the thought of living my life alone, without him. I ran to him. 
The rocks struck us-" Goldmoon put her hand to her forehead, wincing in 
remembered pain, and Tanis's attention was drawn to a fresh, jagged scar on her 
tanned skin. "There was a blinding flash of light. When Riverwind and I could 
see again, we were standing on the road outside of Solace. The staff glowed 
blue, then dimmed and faded until it is as you see it now. It was then we 
determined to go to Haven and ask the wise men at the temple about the staff."
"Riverwind," Tanis asked, troubled, "what do you remember of this broken city? 
Where was it?"
Riverwind didn't answer. He glanced at Tanis out of the corner of his dark eyes, 
and it was obvious his thoughts had been far away. Then he stared off into the 
shadowy trees.
"Tanis Half-Elven," he finally said. "That is your name?"
"Among humans, that is what I am called," Tanis answered. "My elvish name is 
long and difficult for humans to pronounce."
Riverwind frowned. "Why is it," he asked, "that you are called half-elf and not 
half-man?"
The question struck Tanis like a blow across the face. He could almost envision 
himself sprawling in the dirt and had to force himself to stop and swallow an 
angry retort. He knew Riverwind was asking this question for a reason. It had 
not been meant as an insult. This was a test, Tanis realized. He chose his words 
carefully.
"According to humans, half an elf is but part of a whole being. Half a man is a 
cripple."
Riverwind considered this, finally nodded once, abruptly, and answered Tanis's 
question.
"I wandered many long years," he replied. "Often I had no idea where I was. I 
followed the sun and the moons and the stars. My last journey is like a dark 
dream." He was silent for a moment. When he spoke, it was as if he were talking 
from some great distance. "It was a city once beautiful, with white buildings 
supported by tall columns of marble. But it is now as if some great hand had 
picked up the city and cast it down a mountainside. The city is now very old and 
very evil."
"Death on black wings," Tanis said softly.
"It rose like a god from the darkness, its creatures worshipped it, shrieking 
and howling." The Plainsman's face paled beneath his sunbaked skin. He was 
sweating in the chill morning air. "I can speak of it no more!" Goldmoon laid 
her hand on his arm, and the tension in his face eased.
"And out of the horror came a woman who gave you the staff?" Tanis pursued.
"She healed me," Riverwind said simply. "I was dying."
Tanis stared intently at the staff Goldmoon held in her hand. It was just a 
plain, ordinary staff that he never noticed until his attention was called to 
it. A strange device was carved on the top, and feathers-such as the barbarians 
admire-were tied around it. Yet he had seen it glow blue! He had felt its 
healing powers. Was this a gift from ancient gods-come to aid them in their time 
of need? Or was it evil? What did he know of these barbarians anyway? Tanis 
thought about Raistlin's claim that the staff could only be touched by those 
pure of heart. He shook his head. It sounded good. He wanted to believe it. ...
Tanis, lost in thought, felt Goldmoon touch his arm. He looked up to see Sturm 
and Caramon signaling. The half-elf suddenly realized he and the Plainsmen had 
fallen far behind the others. He broke into a run.
"What is it?"
Sturm pointed. "The scout returns," he said dryly.
Tasslehoff was running down the road toward them. He waved his arm three times.
"Into the brush!" Tanis ordered. The group hurriedly left the road and plunged 
into the bushes and scrub trees growing along the south edge-all except Sturm.
"Come on!" Tanis put his hand on the knight's arm. Sturm pulled away from the 
half-elf.
"I will not hide in a ditch!" the knight stated coldly.
"Sturm-" Tanis began, fighting to control his rising anger. He choked back 
bitter words that would do no good and might cause irreparable harm. Instead, he 
turned from the knight, his lips compressed, and waited in grim silence for the 
kender.
Tas came dashing up, pouches and packs bouncing wildly as he ran. "Clerics!" he 
gasped. "A party of clerics. Eight."
Sturm sniffed. "I thought it was a battalion of goblin guards at the least. I 
believe we can handle a party of clerics."
"I don't know," Tasslehoff said, dubiously. "I've seen clerics from every part 
of Krynn and I've never seen any like these." He glanced down the road 
apprehensively, then gazed up at Tanis, unusual seriousness in his brown eyes. 
"Do you remember what Tika said about the strange men in Solace-hanging around 
with Hederick? How they were hooded and dressed in heavy robes? Well, that 
describes these clerics exactly! And, Tanis, they gave me an eerie feeling." The 
kender shuddered. "They'll be in sight in a few moments."
Tanis glanced at Sturm. The knight raised his eyebrows. Both of them knew that 
kenders did not feel the emotion of fear, yet were extremely sensitive to other 
creatures' natures. Tanis couldn't remember when the sight of any being on Krynn 
had ever given Tas an "eerie feeling"-and he had been with the kender in some 
tight spots.
"Here they come," Tanis said suddenly. He and Sturm and Tas moved back into the 
shadows of the trees to the left, watching as the clerics slowly rounded a bend 
in the road. They were too far away for the half-elf to be able to tell much 
about them, except that they were moving very slowly, dragging a large handcart 
behind them.
"Maybe you should talk to them, Sturm," Tanis said softly. "We need information 
about the road ahead. But be careful, my friend."
"I'll be careful." Sturm said, smiling. "I have no intention of throwing my life 
away needlessly."
The knight gripped Tanis's arm a moment in silent apology, then dropped his hand 
to loosen his sword in its antique scabbard. He walked across to the other side 
of the road and leaned up against a broken-down wooden fence, head bowed, as 
though resting. Tanis stood a moment, irresolute, then turned and made his way 
through the brush, Tasslehoff at his heels.
"What is it?" Caramon grunted as Tanis and Tas appeared. The big warrior shifted 
his girth, causing his arsenal of weapons to clank loudly. The rest of the 
companions were huddled together, concealed behind thick clumps of brush, yet 
able to get a clear view of the road.
"Hush." Tanis knelt down between Caramon and Riverwind, who crouched in the 
brush a few feet to Tanis's left. "Clerics," he whispered. "A group of them 
coming down the road. Sturm's going to question them."
"Clerics!" Caramon snorted derisively and settled back comfortably on his heels. 
But Raistlin stirred restlessly.
"Clerics," he whispered thoughtfully. "I do not like this."
"What do you mean?" asked Tanis.
Raistlin peered at the half-elf from the dark shadows of his hood. All Tanis 
could see were the mage's golden hourglass eyes, narrow slits of cunning and 
intelligence.
"Strange clerics," Raistlin spoke with elaborate patience, as one speaks to a 
child. "The staff has healing, clerical powers-such powers as have not been seen 
on Krynn since the Cataclysm! Caramon and I saw some of these cloaked and hooded 
men in Solace. Don't you find it odd, my friend, that these clerics and this 
staff turned up at the same time, in the same place, when neither has been seen 
before? Perhaps this staff is truly theirs-by right."
Tanis glanced at Goldmoon. Her face was shadowed with worry. Surely she must be 
wondering the same thing. He looked back at the road again. The cloaked figures 
were moving at a crawling pace, pulling the cart. Sturm sat on the fence, 
stroking his moustaches.
The companions waited in silence. Gray clouds massed overhead, the sky grew 
darker and soon water began to drip through the branches of the trees.
"There-it's raining," Flint grumbled. "It isn't enough that I have to squat in a 
bush like a toad, now I get soaked to the skin-"
Tanis glared at the dwarf. Flint mumbled and fell silent. Soon the companions 
could hear nothing but the rain splatting against the already wet leaves, 
drumming on shield and helm. It was a cold, steady rain, the kind that seeps 
through the thickest cloak. It ran off Caramon's dragon helm and trickled down 
his neck. Raistlin began to shiver and cough, covering his mouth with his hand 
to muffle the sound as everyone stared at him in alarm.
Tanis looked out to the road. Like Tas, he had never seen anything to compare to 
these clerics in his hundred years of life on Krynn. They were tall, about six 
feet in height. Long robes shrouded their bodies, hooded cloaks covered the 
robes. Even their feet and hands were wrapped in cloth, like bandages covering 
leprous wounds. As they neared Sturm, they glanced around warily. One of them 
stared straight into the brush where the companions were hiding. They could see 
only dark glittering eyes through a swath of cloth.
"Hail, Knight of Solamnia," the lead cleric said in the Common Tongue. His voice 
was hollow, lisping-an inhuman voice. Tanis shivered.
"Greetings, brethren," Sturm answered, also in Common. "I have traveled many 
miles this day and you are the first travelers I have passed. I have heard 
strange rumors, and I seek information about the road ahead. Where do you come 
from?"
"We come from the east originally," the cleric answered. "But today we travel 
from Haven. It is a chill, bitter day for journeying, knight, which is perhaps 
why you find the road empty. We ourselves would not undertake such a journey 
save we are driven by necessity. We did not pass you on the road, so you must be 
traveling from Solace, Sir Knight."
Sturm nodded. Several of the clerics standing at the rear of the cart turned 
their hooded faces toward each other, muttering. The lead cleric spoke to them 
in a strange, guttural language. Tanis looked at his companions. Tasslehoff 
shook his head, as did the rest of them; none of them had heard it before. The 
cleric switched back to Common. "I am curious to hear these rumors you speak of, 
knight."
"There is talk of armies in the north," Sturm replied. "I am traveling that way, 
to my homeland of Solamnia. I would not want to run into a war to which I had 
not been invited."
"We have not heard these rumors," the cleric answered. "So far as we know, the 
road to the north is clear."
"Ah, that's what comes of listening to drunken companions." Sturm shrugged. "But 
what is this necessity you speak of that drives the brethren out into such foul 
weather?"
"We seek a staff," the cleric answered readily. "A blue crystal staff. We heard 
that it had been sighted in Solace. Do you know aught of it?"
"Yes," Sturm answered. "I heard of such a staff in Solace. I heard of the armies 
to the north from the same companions. Am I to believe these stories or not?"
This appeared to confound the cleric for a moment. He glanced around, as if 
uncertain how to react.
"Tell me," said Sturm, lounging back against the fence, "why do you seek a blue 
crystal staff? Surely one of plain, sturdy wood would suit you reverend 
gentlemen better."
"It is a sacred staff of healing," the cleric replied gravely. "One of our 
brothers is sorely ill; he will die without the blessed touch of this holy 
relic."
"Healing?" Sturm raised his eyebrows. "A sacred staff of healing would be of 
great value. How did you come to misplace such a rare and wonderful object?"
"We did not misplace it!" the cleric snarled. Tanis saw the man's wrapped hands 
clench in anger. "It was stolen from our holy order. We tracked the foul thief 
to a barbarian village in the Plains, then lost his trail. There are rumors of 
strange doings in Solace, however, and it is there we go." He gestured to the 
back of the cart. "This dismal journey is but little sacrifice for us compared 
to the pain and agony our brother endures."
"I'm afraid I cannot help-" Sturm began.
"I can help you!" called a clear voice from beside Tanis. He reached out, but he 
was too late. Goldmoon had risen from the brush and was walking determinedly to 
the road, pushing aside tree branches and brambles. Riverwind jumped to his feet 
and crashed through the shrubbery after her.
"Goldmoon!" Tanis risked a piercing whisper.
"I must know!" was all she said.
The clerics, hearing Goldmoon's voice, glanced at each other knowingly, nodding 
their hooded heads. Tanis sensed trouble, but before he could say anything, 
Caramon jumped to his feet.
"The Plainsmen are not leaving me behind in a ditch while they have all the 
fun!" Caramon stated, plunging through the thicket after Riverwind.
"Has everyone gone mad?" Tanis growled. He grabbed Tasslehoff by his shirt 
collar, dragging the kender back as he was about to leap joyfully after Caramon. 
"Flint, watch the kender. Raistlin-"
"No need to worry about me, Tanis," the mage whispered. "I have no intention of 
going out there."
"Right. Well, stay here." Tanis rose to his feet and slowly started forward, an 
"eerie feeling" creeping over him.
 
 
8
Search for truth.
Unexpected answers.
 
"I can help you." Goldmoon's clear voice rang out like a pure, silver bell. The 
Chieftain's Daughter saw Sturm's shocked face; she understood Tanis' warning.
But this was not the act of a foolish, hysterical woman. Goldmoon was far from 
that. She had ruled her tribe in all but name for ten years, ever since sickness 
had struck her father like a lightning bolt, leaving him unable to speak clearly 
or to move his right arm and leg. She had led her people in times of war with 
neighboring tribes and in times of peace. She had confounded attempts to wrest 
her power from her. She knew that what she was doing now was dangerous. These 
strange clerics filled her with loathing. But they obviously knew something 
about this staff, and she had to know the answer.
"I am the bearer of the blue crystal staff," Goldmoon said, approaching the 
leader of the clerics, her head held proudly. "But we did not steal it; the 
staff was given to us."
Riverwind stepped to one side of her, Sturm to the other. Caramon came charging 
through the brush and stood behind her, his hand on his sword hilt, an eager 
grin on his face.
"So you say," the cleric said in a soft, sneering voice. He stared at the plain 
brown staff in her hand with avid, black, gleaming eyes, then reached out his 
wrapped hand to take it. Goldmoon swiftly clasped the staff to her body.
"The staff was carried out of a place of great evil," she said. "I will do what 
I can to help your dying brother, but I will not relinquish this staff to you or 
to anyone else until I am firmly convinced of your rightful claim to it."
The cleric hesitated, glanced back at his fellows. Tanis saw them make nervous, 
tentative gestures toward the wide cloth belts they wore tied around their 
flowing robes. Unusually wide belts, Tanis noticed, with strange bulges beneath 
them-not, he was sure, made by prayer books. He swore in frustration, wishing 
Sturm and Caramon were paying attention. But Sturm seemed completely relaxed and 
Caramon was nudging him as though sharing a private joke. Tanis raised his bow 
cautiously and put an arrow to the string.
The cleric finally bowed his head in submission, folding his hands in his 
sleeves. "We will be grateful for whatever aid you can give our poor brother," 
he said, his voice muffled. "And then I hope you and your companions will return 
with us to Haven. I promise you that you will be convinced that the staff has 
come into your possession wrongly."
"We'll go where we've a mind to, brother," Caramon growled.
Fool! Tanis thought. The half-elf considered shouting a warning, then decided to 
remain hidden in case his growing fears were realized.
Goldmoon and the leader of the cloaked men passed the cart, Riverwind next to 
her. Caramon and Sturm remained near the front of it, watching with interest. As 
Goldmoon and the cleric reached the back, the cleric put out a wrapped hand and 
drew Goldmoon toward the cart. She pulled away from his touch and stepped 
forward by herself. The cleric bowed humbly, then lifted up a cloth covering the 
back of the cart. Holding the staff in front of her, Goldmoon peered in.
Tanis saw a flurry of movement. Goldmoon screamed.
There was a flash of blue light and a cry. Goldmoon sprang backward as Riverwind 
jumped in front of her. The cleric lifted a horn to his lips and blew long, 
wailing notes.
"Caramon! Sturm!" Tanis called, raising his bow. "It's a tra-"
A great weight dropped on the half-elf from above, knocking him to the ground. 
Strong hands groped for his throat, shoving his face deep into the wet leaves 
and mud. The man's fingers found their hold and began squeezing. Tanis fought to 
breathe, but his nose and mouth were filled with mud. Seeing starbursts, he tore 
frantically at the hands that were trying to crush his windpipe. The man's grip 
was incredibly strong. Tanis felt himself losing consciousness. He tensed his 
muscles for one final, desperate struggle, then he heard a hoarse cry and a 
bonecrushing thump. The hands relaxed their grip and the heavy weight was 
dragged off him.
Tanis staggered to his knees, his breath coming in painful gasps. Wiping mud 
from his face, he looked up to see Flint with a log in his hand. But the dwarf's 
eyes were not on him. They were on the body at his feet.
Tanis followed the astonished dwarf's gaze, and the half-elf recoiled in horror. 
It wasn't a man! Leathery wings sprang from its back. It had the scaly flesh of 
a reptile; its large hands and feet were clawed, but it walked upright in the 
manner of men. The creature wore sophisticated armor that allowed it the use of 
its wings. It was the creature's face, however, that made him shudder-it was not 
the face of any living being he had ever seen before, either on Krynn or in his 
darkest nightmares. The creature had the face of a man, but it was as if some 
malevolent being had twisted it into that of a reptile!
"By all the gods," Raistlin breathed, creeping up to Tanis "What is that?"
Before Tanis could answer, he saw out of the corner of his eye a brilliant flash 
of blue light and he heard Goldmoon calling.
For one instant, as Goldmoon had looked into the cart, she had wondered what 
terrible disease could turn a man's flesh into scales. She had moved forward to 
touch the pitiful cleric with her staff, but at that moment the creature sprang 
out at her, grasping for the staff with a clawed hand. Goldmoon stumbled 
backward, but the creature was swift and its clawed hand closed around the 
staff. There was a blinding flash of blue light. The creature shrieked in pain 
and fell back, wringing its blackened hand. Riverwind, sword drawn, had leaped 
in front of his Chieftain's Daughter.
But now she heard him gasp and she saw his sword arm drop weakly. He staggered 
backward, making no effort to defend himself. Rough wrapped hands grabbed her 
from behind. A horrible scaled hand was clapped over her mouth. Struggling to 
free herself, she caught a glimpse of Riverwind. He was staring wide-eyed in 
terror at the thing in the cart, his face deathly white, his breathing swift and 
shallow-a man who wakes from a nightmare to discover it is reality.
Goldmoon, strong child of a warrior race, kicked backwards at the cleric holding 
her, her foot aiming for his knee. Her skillful kick caught her opponent 
offguard and crushed his knee-cap. The instant the cleric eased his grip on her, 
Goldmoon whirled around and struck him with her staff. She was amazed to see the 
cleric slump to the ground, seemingly felled by a blow even the mighty Caramon 
might have envied. She looked at her staff in astonishment, the staff that now 
glowed a bright blue. But there was no time to wonder-other creatures surrounded 
her. She swung her glistening staff in a wide arc, holding them at bay. But for 
how long?
"Riverwind!"
Goldmoon's cry woke the Plainsman from his terror. Turning, he saw her backing 
into the forest, keeping the cloaked clerics away with the staff. He grabbed one 
of the clerics from behind and threw him heavily to the ground. Another jumped 
at him while a third sprang toward Goldmoon.
There was a blinding blue flash.
A moment ahead of Tanis's cry, Sturm realized the clerics had set a trap and 
drew his sword. He had seen, through the slats of the old wooden cart, a clawed 
hand grabbing for the staff. Lunging forward, he had gone to back up Riverwind. 
But the knight was totally unprepared for the Plainsman's reaction at sight of 
the creature in the cart. Sturm saw Riverwind stagger backwards, helpless, as 
the creature grabbed a battle-axe in its uninjured hand and sprang directly at 
the barbarian.
Riverwind made no move to defend himself. He just stared, his weapon dangling in 
his hand.
Sturm plunged his sword into the creature's back. The thing screamed and whirled 
around to attack, wrenching the sword from the knight's hand. Slavering and 
gurgling in its dying rage, the creature wrapped its arms around the startled 
knight and bore him into the muddy road. Sturm knew the thing that grasped him 
was dying and fought to beat down the terror and revulsion he felt at the touch 
of its slimy skin. The screaming stopped and he felt the creature go rigid. The 
knight shoved the body over and quickly started to pull his sword from the 
creature's back. The weapon didn't budge! He stared at it in disbelief, then 
yanked on the sword with all his might, even putting his booted foot against the 
body to gain leverage. The weapon was stuck fast. Furious, he beat at the 
creature with his hands, then drew back in fear and loathing. The thing had 
turned to stone!
"Caramon!" Sturm yelled as another of the strange clerics leaped toward him, 
swinging an axe. Sturm ducked, felt a slashing pain, and then was blinded when 
blood flowed into his eyes. He stumbled, unable to see, and a crushing weight 
bore him to the ground.
Caramon, standing near the front of the cart, started to go to Goldmoon's aid 
when he heard Sturm's cry. Then two of the creatures bore down on him. Swinging 
his short sword to force them to keep their distance, Caramon drew his dagger 
with his left hand. One cleric jumped for him and Caramon slashed out, his blade 
biting deep into flesh. He smelled a foul, rotting stench and saw a sickly green 
stain appear on the cleric's robes, but the wound appeared just to enrage the 
creature. It kept coming, saliva dripping from jaws that were the jaws of a 
reptile-not a man. For a moment, panic engulfed Caramon. He had fought trolls 
and goblins, but these horrible clerics completely unnerved him. He felt lost 
and alone, then he heard a reassuring whisper next to him.
"I am here, my brother." Raistlin's calm voice filled his mind.
"About time" Caramon gasped, threatening the creature with his sword. "What sort 
of foul clerics are these?"
"Don't stab them!" Raistlin warned swiftly. "They'll turn to stone. They're not 
clerics. They are some sort of reptile man. That is the reason for the robes and 
hoods."
Though different as light and shadow, the twins fought well as a team. They 
exchanged few words during battle-their thoughts merging faster than tongues 
could translate. Caramon dropped his sword and dagger and flexed his huge arm 
muscles. The creatures, seeing Caramon drop his weapons, charged forward. Their 
rags had fallen loose and fluttered about them grotesquely. Caramon grimaced at 
the sight of the scaled bodies and clawed hands.
"Ready," he said to his brother.
"Ast tasark simiralan krynawi," said Raistlin softly, and he threw a handful of 
sand into the air. The creatures stopped their wild rush, shook their heads 
groggily as magical sleep stole over them . . . but then blinked their eyes. 
Within moments, they had regained their senses and started forward again!
"Magic resistant!" Raistlin murmured in awe. But that brief interlude of near 
sleep was long enough for Caramon. Encircling their scrawny, reptilian necks 
with his huge hands, the warrior swept their heads together. The bodies tumbled 
to the ground-lifeless statues. Caramon looked up to see two more clerics 
crawling over the stony bodies of their brethren, curved swords gleaming in 
their wrapped hands.
"Stand behind me," ordered Raistlin in a hoarse whisper. Caramon reached down 
and grabbed dagger and sword. He dodged behind his brother, fearful for his 
twin's safety, yet knowing Raistlin could not cast his spell if he stood in the 
way.
Raistlin stared intently at the creatures, who-recognizing a magic-user-slowed 
and glanced at each other, hesitant to approach. One dropped to the ground and 
crawled under the cart. The other sprang forward, sword in hand, hoping to 
impale the mage before his spell was cast, or at least break the concentration 
that was so necessary to the spellcaster. Caramon bellowed. Raistlin seemed not 
to hear or see any of them. Slowly he raised his hands. Placing his thumbs 
together, he spread his thin fingers in a fanlike pattern and spoke, "Kair 
tangus miopiar." Magic coursed through his frail body, and the creature was 
engulfed in flame.
Tanis, recovering from his initial shock, heard Sturm's yell and crashed through 
the brush out onto the road. He swung the flat of his sword blade like a club 
and struck the creature that had Sturm pinned to the ground. The cleric fell 
over with a shriek and Tanis was able to drag the wounded knight into the brush.
"My sword," Sturm mumbled, dazed. Blood poured down his face; he tried 
unsuccessfully to wipe it away.
"We'll get it," Tanis promised, wondering how. Looking down the road, he could 
see more creatures swarming out of the woods and heading toward them. Tanis's 
mouth was dry. We've got to get out of here, he thought, fighting down panic. He 
forced himself to pause and draw a deep breath. Then he turned to Flint and 
Tasslehoff who had run up behind him.
"Stay here and guard Sturm," he instructed. "I'm going to get everyone together. 
We'll head back into the woods."
Not waiting for an answer, Tanis dashed out into the road, but then the flames 
from Raistlin's spell flared out and he was forced to fling himself to the 
ground.
The cart began to smoke as the straw pallet the creature had been lying on 
inside caught fire.
"Stay here and guard Sturm. Humpf!" Flint muttered, getting a firm grip on his 
battle-axe. For the moment, the creatures coming down the road did not seem to 
notice the dwarf or the kender or the wounded knight lying in the shadows of the 
trees. Their attention was on the two small knots of battling warriors. But 
Flint knew it was only a matter of time. He planted his feet more firmly. "Do 
something for Sturm," he said to Tas irritably. "Make yourself useful for once."
"I'm trying," Tasslehoff replied in a hurt tone. "But I can't get he bleeding 
stopped." He wiped the knight's eyes with a moderately clean handkerchief. 
"There, can you see now?" he asked anxiously.
Sturm groaned and tried to sit up, but pain flashed through his head and he sank 
back. "My sword," he said.
Tasslehoff looked over to see Sturm's two-handed weapon sticking out of the back 
of the stone cleric. "That's fantastic!" the wide-eyed kender said. "Look, 
Flint! Sturm's sword-"
"I know, you fog-brained idiot Render!" Flint roared as he saw a creature 
running toward them, its blade drawn.
"I'll just go get it," Tas said cheerfully to Sturm as he knelt beside him. "I 
won't be a moment."
"No-" Flint yelled, realizing the attacking cleric was out of Tas's line of 
vision. The creature's wicked, curved sword lashed out in a flashing arc, aimed 
for the dwarf's neck. Flint swung his axe, but at that moment, Tasslehoff-his 
eyes on Sturm's sword-rose to his feet. The kender's hoopak staff struck the 
dwarf in the back of the knees, causing Flint's legs to buckle beneath him. The 
creature's sword whistled harmlessly over-head as the dwarf gave a startled yell 
and fell over backwards on top of Sturm.
Tasslehoff, hearing the dwarf shout, looked back, astonished at an odd sight: a 
cleric was attacking Flint and, for some reason, the dwarf was lying on his 
back, legs flailing, when he should have been up fighting.
"What are you doing, Flint?" Tas shouted. He nonchalantly struck the creature in 
the midsection with his hoopak, struck it again on the head as it toppled 
forward, and watched it fall to the ground, unconscious.
"There!" he said irritably to Flint. "Do I have to fight your battles for you?" 
The kender turned and headed back toward Sturm's sword.
"Fight! For me!" The dwarf, sputtering with rage, struggled wildly to stand up. 
His helm had slipped over his eyes, blinding him. Flint shoved it back just as 
another cleric bowled into him, knocking the dwarf off his feet again.
Tanis found Goldmoon and Riverwind standing back to back, Goldmoon fending off 
the creatures with her staff. Three of them lay dead at her feet, their stony 
remains blackened from the staff's blue flame. Riverwind's sword was caught fast 
in the guts of another statue. The Plainsman had unslung his only remaining 
weapon-his short bow-and had an arrow nocked and ready. The creatures were, for 
the moment, hanging back, discussing their strategy in low, indecipherable 
tones. Knowing they must rush the Plainsmen in a moment, Tanis leaped toward 
them and smote one of the creatures from behind, using the flat of his sword, 
then made a backhand swing at another.
"Come on!" he shouted to the Plainsmen. "This way!"
Some of the creatures turned at this new attack; others hesitated. Riverwind 
fired an arrow and felled one, then he grabbed Goldmoon's hand and together they 
ran toward Tanis, jumping over the stone bodies of their victims.
Tanis let them get past him, fending off the creatures with the flat of his 
sword. "Here, take this dagger!" he shouted to Riverwind as the barbarian ran 
by. Riverwind grabbed it, reversed it, and struck one of the creatures in the 
jaw. Jabbing upward with the hilt, he broke its neck. There was another flash of 
blue flame as Goldmoon used her staff to knock another creature out of the way. 
Then they were into the woods.
The wooden cart was burning fiercely now. Peering through the smoke, Tanis 
caught glimpses of the road. A shiver ran through him as he saw dark winged 
forms floating to the ground about a half mile away on either side of them. The 
road was cut off in both directions. They were trapped unless they escaped into 
the woods immediately.
He reached the place where he had left Sturm. Goldmoon and Riverwind were there, 
so was Flint. Where was everyone else? He stared around in the thick smoke, 
blinking back tears.
"Help Sturm," he told Goldmoon. Then he turned to Flint, who was trying 
unsuccessfully to yank his axe out of the chest of a stone creature. "Where are 
Caramon and Raistlin? And where's Tas? I told him to stay here-"
"Blasted kender nearly got me killed!" Flint exploded. "I hope they carry him 
off! I hope they use him for dog meat! I hope-"
"In the name of the gods!" Tanis swore in exasperation. He made his way through 
the smoke toward where he had last seen Caramon and Raistlin and stumbled across 
the kender, dragging Sturm's sword back along the road. The weapon was nearly as 
big as Tasslehoff and he couldn't lift it, so he was dragging it through the 
mud.
"How did you get that?" Tanis asked in amazement, coughing in the thick smoke 
that boiled around them.
Tas grinned, tears streaming down his face from the smoke in his eyes. "The 
creature turned to dust," he said happily. "Oh, Tanis, it was wonderful. I 
walked up and pulled on the sword and it wouldn't come out, so I pulled again 
and-"
"Not now! Get back to the others!" Tanis grabbed the kender and shoved him 
forward. "Have you seen Caramon and Raistlin?"
But just then he heard the warrior's voice boom out of the smoke. "Here we are," 
Caramon panted. He had his arm around his brother, who was coughing 
uncontrollably. "Have we destroyed them all?" the big man asked cheerfully.
"No, we haven't," Tanis replied grimly. "In fact, we've got to get away through 
the woods to the south." He put his arm around Raistlin and together they 
hurried back to where the others were huddled by the road, choking in the smoke, 
yet thankful for its enveloping cover.
Sturm was on his feet, his face pale, but the pain in his head was gone and the 
wound had quit bleeding.
"The staff healed him?" Tanis asked Goldmoon.
She coughed. "Not completely. Enough so that he can walk."
"It has . . . limits," Raistlin said, wheezing.
"Yes-" Tanis interrupted. "Well, we're heading south, into the woods."
Caramon shook his head. "That's Darken Wood-" he began.
"I know-you'd rather fight the living," Tanis interrupted. "How do you feel 
about that now?"
The warrior did not answer.
"More of those creatures are coming from both directions. We can't fight off 
another assault. But we won't enter Darken Wood if we don't have to. There's a 
game trail not far from here we can use to reach Prayer's Eye Peak. There we can 
see the road to the north, as well as all other directions."
"We could go north as far as the cave. The boat's hidden there." Riverwind 
suggested.
"No!" yelled Flint in a strangled voice. Without another word, the dwarf turned 
and plunged into the forest, running south as fast as his short legs could carry 
him.
 
 
9
Flight!
The white stag.
 
The companions stumbled through the thick woods as fast as they could and soon 
reached the game trail. Caramon took the lead, sword in hand, eyeing every 
shadow. His brother followed, one hand on Caramon's shoulder, his lips set in 
grim determination. The rest came after, their weapons drawn.
But they saw no more of the creatures.
"Why aren't they chasing us?" Flint asked after they had traveled about an hour.
Tanis scratched his beard-he had been wondering about the same thing. "They 
don't need to," he said finally. "We are trapped. They've undoubtedly blocked 
all the exits from this forest. With the exception of Darken Wood. . . ."
"Darken Wood!" Goldmoon repeated softly. "Is it truly necessary to go that way?"
"It may not be," Tanis said. "We'll get a look around from Prayer's Eye Peak."
Suddenly they heard Caramon, walking ahead of them, shout. Running forward, 
Tanis found Raistlin had collapsed.
"I'll be all right," the mage whispered. "But I must rest."
"We can all use rest," Tanis said.
No one answered. All sank down wearily, catching their breath in quick, sharp 
gasps. Sturm closed his eyes and leaned against a moss-covered rock. His face 
was a ghastly shade of grayish white. Blood had matted his long moustaches and 
caked his hair. The wound was a jagged slash, turning slowly purple. Tanis knew 
that the knight would die before he said a word of complaint.
"Don't worry," Sturm said harshly. "Just give me a moment's peace." Tanis 
gripped the knight's hand briefly, then went to sit beside Riverwind.
Neither spoke for long minutes, then Tanis asked, "You've fought those creatures 
before, haven't you?"
"In the broken city." Riverwind shuddered. "It all came back to me when I looked 
inside the cart and saw that thing leering at me! At least-" He paused, shook 
his head. Then he gave Tanis a half-smile. "At least I know now that I'm not 
going insane. Those horrible creatures really do exist-I had wondered 
sometimes."
"I can imagine," Tanis murmured. "So these creatures are spreading all over 
Krynn, unless your broken city was near here."
"No. I came into Que-shu out of the east. It was far from Solace, beyond the 
Plains of my homeland."
"What do you suppose those creatures meant, saying they had tracked you to our 
village?" Goldmoon asked slowly, laying her cheek on his leather tunic sleeve, 
slipping her hand around his arm.
"Don't worry," Riverwind said, taking her hand in his. "The warriors there would 
deal with them."
"Riverwind, do you remember what you were going to say?" she prompted.
"Yes, you are right," Riverwind replied, stroking her silvergold hair. He looked 
at Tanis and smiled. For an instant, the expressionless mask was gone and Tanis 
saw warmth deep within the man's brown eyes. "I give my thanks to you, 
Half-Elven, and to all of you." His glance flickered over everyone. "You have 
saved our lives more than once and I have been ungrateful. But"-he paused-"it's 
all so strange!"
"It's going to get stranger." Raistlin's voice was ominous.
The companions were drawing nearer Prayer's Eye Peak. They had been able to see 
it from the road, rising above the forests. Its split peak looked like two hands 
pressed together in prayer-thus the name. The rain had stopped. The woods were 
deathly quiet. The companions began to think that the forest animals and birds 
had vanished from the land, leaving an eerie, empty silence behind. All of them 
felt uneasy -except perhaps Tasslehoff -and kept peering over their shoulders or 
drawing their swords at shadows.
Sturm insisted on walking rear guard, but he began lagging behind as the pain in 
his head increased. He was becoming dizzy and nauseated. Soon he lost all 
conception of where he was and what he was doing. He knew only that he must keep 
walking, placing one foot in front of the other, moving forward like one of 
Tas's automatons.
How did Tas's story go? Sturm tried to remember it through a haze of pain. These 
automatons served a wizard who had summoned a demon to carry the kender away. It 
was nonsense, like all the kender's stories. Sturm put one foot in front of the 
other. Nonsense. Like the old man's stories-the old man in the Inn. Stories of 
the White Stag and ancient gods-Paladine. Stories of Huma. Sturm clasped his 
hands on his throbbing temples as if he could hold his splitting head together. 
Huma. . . .
As a boy, Sturm had fed on stories of Huma. His mother-daughter of a Knight of 
Solamnia, married to a Knight-had known no other stories to tell her son. 
Sturm's thoughts turned to his mother, his pain making him think of her tender 
ministrations when he was sick or hurt. Sturm's father had sent his wife and 
their son into exile because the boy-his only heir- was a target for those who 
would see the Knights of Solamnia banished forever from the face of Krynn. Sturm 
and his mother took refuge in Solace. Sturm made friends readily, particularly 
with one other boy, Caramon, who shared his interest in all things military. But 
Sturm's proud mother considered the people beneath her. And so, when the fever 
consumed her, she had died alone except for her teenage son. She had commended 
the boy to his father-if his father still lived, which Sturm was beginning to 
doubt.
After his mother's death, the young man became a seasoned warrior under the 
guidance of Tanis and Flint, who adopted Sturm as they had unofficially adopted 
Caramon and Raistlin. Together with Tasslehoff, the travel-loving kender, and, 
on occasion, the twins' wild and beautiful half-sister, Kitiara, Sturm and his 
friends escorted Flint on his journeys through the lands of Abanasinia, plying 
his trade as metalsmith.
Five years ago, however, the companions decided to separate to investigate 
reports of evil growing in the land. They vowed to meet again at the Inn of the 
Last Home.
Sturm had traveled north to Solamnia, determined to find his father and his 
heritage. He found nothing, and only narrowly escaped with his life-and his 
father's sword and armor. The journey to his homeland was a harrowing 
experience. Sturm had known the Knights were reviled, but he had been shocked to 
realize just how deep the bitterness against them ran. Huma, Lightbringer, 
Knight of Solamnia, had driven back the darkness years ago, during the Age of 
Dreams, and thus began the Age of Might. Then came the Cataclysm, when the gods 
abandoned man-according to the popular belief. The people had turned to the 
Knights for help-as they had turned to Huma in the past. But Huma was long dead. 
The Knights could only watch helplessly as terror rained down from heaven and 
Krynn was smote asunder. The people had cried to the Knights, but they could do 
nothing, and the people had never forgiven them. Standing in front of his 
family's ruined castle, Sturm vowed that he would restore the honor of the 
Knights of Solamnia-if it meant that he must sacrifice his life in the attempt.
But how could he do that fighting a bunch of clerics, he wondered bitterly, the 
trail dimming before his eyes. He stumbled, caught himself quickly. Huma had 
fought dragons. Give me dragons, Sturm dreamed. He lifted his eyes. The leaves 
blurred into a golden mist and he knew he was going to faint. Then he blinked. 
Everything came sharply into focus.
Before him rose Prayer's Eye Peak. He and his companions had arrived at the foot 
of the old, glacial mountain. He could see trails twisting and winding up the 
wooded slope, trails used by Solace residents to reach picnic spots on the 
eastern side of the Peak. Next to one of the well-worn paths stood a white stag. 
Sturm stared. The stag was the most magnificent animal the knight had ever seen. 
It was huge, standing several hands taller than any other stag the knight had 
hunted. It held its head proudly, its splendid rack gleaming like a crown. Its 
eyes were deep brown against its pure white fur, and it gazed at the knight 
intently, as if it knew him. Then, with a slight shake of its head, the stag 
bounded away to the southwest.
"Stop!" the knight called out hoarsely.
The others whirled around in alarm, drawing weapons. Tanis came running back to 
him. "What is it, Sturm?"
The knight involuntarily put his hand to his aching head.
"I'm sorry, Sturm," Tanis said. "I didn't realize you were as sick as this. We 
can rest. We're at the foot of Prayer's Eye Peak. I'm going to climb the 
mountain and see-"
"No! Look!" The knight gripped Tanis's shoulder and turned him around. He 
pointed. "See it? The white stag!"
"The white stag?" Tanis stared in the direction the knight indicated. "Where? I 
don't-"
"There," Sturm said softly. He took a few steps forward, toward the animal who 
had stopped and seemed to be waiting for him. The stag nodded its great head. It 
darted away again, just a few steps, then turned to face the knight once more. 
"He wants us to follow him," Sturm gasped. "Like Huma!"
The others had gathered around the knight now, regarding him with expressions 
that ranged from deeply concerned to obviously skeptical.
"I see no stag of any color," Riverwind said, his dark eyes scanning the forest.
"Head wound." Caramon nodded like a charlatan cleric. "C'mon, Sturm, lie down 
and rest while-"
"You great blithering idiot!" the knight snarled at Caramon. "With your brains 
in your stomach, it is just as well you do not see the stag. You would probably 
shoot it and cook it! I tell you this-we must follow it!"
"The madness of the head wound," Riverwind whispered to Tanis. "I have seen it 
often."
"I'm not sure," Tanis said. He was silent for a few moments. When he spoke, it 
was with obvious reluctance. "Though I have not seen the white stag myself, I 
have been with one who has and I have followed it, like in the old man's story." 
His hand absently fingered the ring of twisted ivy leaves that he wore on his 
left hand, his thoughts with the golden-haired elfmaiden who wept when he left 
Qualinesti.
"You're suggesting we follow an animal we can't even see?" Caramon said, his jaw 
going slack.
"It would not be the strangest thing we had done," Raistlin commented 
sarcastically in his whispering voice. "Though, remember, it was the old man who 
told the tale of the White Stag and the old man who got us into this-"
"It was our own choice got us into this," Tanis snapped. "We could have turned 
the staff over to the High Theocrat and talked our way out of the predicament; 
we've talked our way out of worse. I say we follow Sturm. He has been chosen, 
apparently, just as Riverwind was chosen to receive the staff-"
"But it's not even leading us in the right direction!" Caramon argued. "You know 
as well as I do there are no trails through the western part of the woods. No 
one ever goes there."
"All the better," Goldmoon said suddenly. "Tanis said those creatures must have 
the paths blocked. Maybe this is a way out. I say we follow the knight." She 
turned and started off with Sturm, not even glancing back at the 
others-obviously accustomed to being obeyed. Riverwind shrugged and shook his 
head, scowling darkly, but he walked after Goldmoon and the others followed.
The knight left the well-trodden paths of Prayer's Eye Peak behind, moving in a 
southwesterly direction up the slope. At first it appeared Caramon was 
right-there were no trails. Sturm was crashing through the brush like a madman. 
Then, suddenly, a smooth wide trail opened up ahead of them. Tanis stared at it 
in amazement.
"What or who cleared this trail?" he asked Riverwind, who was also examining it 
with a puzzled expression.
"I don't know," the Plainsman said. "It's old. That felled tree has lain there 
long enough to sink over halfway into the dirt and it's covered with moss and 
vines. But there are no tracks- other than Sturm's. There's no sign of anyone or 
any animal passing through here. Yet why isn't it overgrown?"
Tanis couldn't answer and he couldn't take time to think about it. Sturm forged 
ahead rapidly; all the party could do was try to keep him in sight.
"Goblins, boats, lizard men, invisible stags- what next?" complained Flint to 
the kender.
"I wish I could see the stag," Tas said wistfully.
"Get hit on the head." The dwarf snorted. "Although with you, we probably 
couldn't tell the difference."
The companions followed Sturm, who was climbing with a wild kind of elation, his 
pain and wound forgotten. Tanis had difficulty catching up with the knight. When 
he did, he was
alarmed at the feverish gleam in Sturm's eye. But the knight was obviously being 
guided by something. The trail led them up the slope of Prayer's Eye Peak. Tanis 
saw that it was taking them to the gap between the "hands" of stone, a gap that 
as far as he knew no one had ever entered before.
"Wait a moment," he gasped, running to catch up with Sturm. It was nearly 
midday, he guessed, though the sun was still hidden by jagged gray clouds. 
"Let's rest. I'm going to take a look at the land from over there." He pointed 
to a rock ledge that jutted out from the side of the peak.
"Rest-" repeated Sturm vaguely, stopping and catching his breath. He stared 
ahead for a moment, then turned to Tanis.
"Yes. We'll rest." His eyes gleamed brightly.
"Are you all right?"
"Fine," Sturm said absently and paced around the grass, gently stroking and 
smoothing his moustaches. Tanis looked at him a moment, irresolute, then went 
back to the others who were just coming over the crest of a small rise.
"We're going to rest here," the half-elf said. Raistlin breathed a sigh of 
relief and sank down in the wet leaves.
"I'm going to have a look north, see what's moving back on the road to Haven," 
Tanis added.
"I'll come with you," Riverwind offered.
Tanis nodded and the two left the path, heading for the rock ledge. Tanis 
glanced at the tall warrior as they walked together. He was beginning to feel 
comfortable with the stern, serious Plainsman. A deeply private person himself, 
Riverwind respected the privacy of others and would never think of probing the 
boundaries Tanis set around his soul. This was as relaxing to the half-elf as a 
night's unbroken sleep. He knew that his friends-simply because they were his 
friends and had known him for years-were speculating on his relationship with 
Kitiara. Why had he chosen to break it off so abruptly five years ago? And why, 
then, his obvious disappointment when she failed to join them? Riverwind, of 
course, knew nothing about Kitiara, but Tanis had the feeling that if he did, it 
would be all the same to the Plainsman, it was Tanis's business, not his.
When they were within sight of the Haven Road, they crawled the last few feet, 
inching their way along the wet rock until they came to the rim of the ledge. 
Tanis, looking below and to the east, could see the old picnic paths 
disappearing around the side of the mountain. Riverwind pointed, and Tanis 
realized there were creatures moving along the picnic trails! That explained the 
uncanny hush in the forest. Tanis pressed his lips together grimly. The 
creatures must be waiting to ambush them. Sturm and his white stag had probably 
saved their lives. But it wouldn't take the creatures long to find this new 
trail. Tanis glanced below him and blinked- there was no trail! There was 
nothing but thick, impenetrable forest. The trail had closed behind them! I must 
be imagining things, he thought, and he turned his eyes back to Haven Road and 
the many creatures moving along it. It hadn't taken them long to get organized, 
he thought. He gazed farther to the north and saw the still, peaceful waters of 
Crystalmir Lake. Then his glance traveled to the horizon.
He frowned. There was something wrong. He couldn't place it immediately, so he 
said nothing to Riverwind but stared at the skyline. Storm clouds massed in the 
north more thickly than ever, long gray fingers raking the land. And reaching up 
to meet them-that was it! Gripping Riverwind's arm, Tanis stabbed his finger 
northward. Riverwind looked, squinting, seeing nothing at first. Then he saw 
it-black smoke drifting into the sky. His thick, heavy brows contracted.
"Campfires," Tanis said.
"Many hundred campfires," Riverwind amended softly. "The fires of war. That is 
an army encampment."
"So the rumors are confirmed," Sturm said when they returned. "There is an army 
to the north."
"But what army? Whose? And why? What are they going to attack?" Caramon laughed 
incredulously. "No one would send an army after this staff." The warrior paused. 
"Would they?"
"The staff is but a part of this," Raistlin hissed. "Remember the fallen stars!"
"Children's stories!" Flint sniffed. He upended the empty wineskin, shook it, 
and sighed.
"My stories are not for children," Raistlin said viciously, twisting up from the 
leaves like a snake. "And you would do well to heed my words, dwarf!"
"There it is! There's the stag!" Sturm said suddenly, his eyes staring straight 
at a large boulder-or so it seemed to his companions. "It is time to go."
The knight began walking. The others hastily gathered their gear together and 
hurried after him. As they climbed ever farther up the trail-which seemed to 
materialize before them as they went-the wind switched and began blowing from 
the south. It was a warm breeze, carrying with it the fragrance of late-blooming 
autumn wildflowers. It drove back the storm clouds and just as they came to the 
cleft between the two halves of the Peak, the sun broke free.
It was well past midday when they stopped to rest for one more brief period 
before attempting the climb through the narrow gap between the walls of Prayer's 
Eye Peak through which Sturm said they must go. The stag had led the way, he 
insisted.
"It'll be suppertime soon," Caramon said. He heaved a gusty sigh, staring at his 
feet. "I could eat my boots!"
"They're beginning to look good to me, too," Flint said grumpily. "I wish that 
stag was flesh and blood. It might be useful for something besides getting us 
lost!"
"Shut up!" Sturm turned on the dwarf in a sudden rage, his fists clenched. Tanis 
rose quickly, put his hand on the knight's shoulder, holding him back.
Sturm stood glaring at the dwarf, moustaches quivering, then he jerked away from 
Tanis. "Let's go," he muttered.
As the companions entered the narrow defile, they could see clear blue sky on 
the other side. The south wind whistled across the steep white walls of the Peak 
soaring above them. They walked carefully, small stones causing their feet to 
slip more than once. Fortunately, the way was so narrow that they could easily 
regain their balance by catching themselves against the steep walls.
After about thirty minutes of walking, they came out on the other side of 
Prayer's Eye Peak. They halted, staring down into a valley. Lush, grassy 
meadowland flowed in green waves below them to lap on the shores of a 
light-green aspen forest far to the south. The storm clouds were behind them, 
and the sun shone brightly in a clear, azure sky.
For the first time, they found their cloaks too heavy, except for Raistlin who 
remained huddled in his red, hooded cape. Flint had spent the morning 
complaining about the rain and now started on the sunshine-it was too bright, 
glaring into his eyes. It was too hot, beating down on his helm.
"I say we throw the dwarf off the mountain," growled Caramon to Tanis.
Tanis grinned. "He'd rattle all the way down and give away our position."
"Who's down there to hear him?" Caramon said, gesturing toward the valley with 
his broad hand. "I bet we're the first living beings to set eyes on this 
valley."
"First living beings," Raistlin breathed. "You are right there, my brother. For 
you look on Darken Wood."
No one spoke. Riverwind shifted uncomfortably; Goldmoon crept over to stand 
beside him, staring down into the green trees, her eyes wide. Flint cleared his 
throat and fell silent, stroking his long beard. Sturm regarded the forest 
calmly. So did Tasslehoff.
"It doesn't look bad at all," the kender said cheerfully. Sitting cross-legged 
on the ground, a sheaf of parchment spread out on his knees, he was drawing a 
map with a bit of charcoal, attempting to trace their way up Prayer's Eye Peak.
"Looks are as deceptive as light-fingered kender," Raistlin whispered harshly.
Tasslehoff frowned, started to retort, then caught Tanis's eye and went back to 
his drawing. Tanis walked over to Sturm. The knight stood out on a ledge, the 
south wind blowing back his long hair and whipping his frayed cape about him.
"Sturm, where is the stag? Do you see it now?"
"Yes," Sturm answered. He pointed downward. "It walked across the meadow; I can 
see its trail in the tall grass. It has gone into the aspens there."
"Gone into Darken Wood," Tanis murmured.
"Who says that is Darken Wood?" Sturm turned to face Tanis.
"Raistlin."
"Bah!"
"He is magi," Tanis said.
"He is crazed," Sturm replied. Then he shrugged. "But stay here rooted on the 
side of the Peak if you like, Tanis. I will follow the stag-as did Huma-even if 
it leads me into Darken Wood." Wrapping his cloak around him, Sturm climbed down 
the ledge and began to walk along a winding trail that led down the 
mountainside.
Tanis returned to the others. "The stag's leading him on a straight path right 
into the forest," he said. "How certain are you that this forest is Darken Wood, 
Raistlin?"
"How certain is one of anything, Half-Elven?" the mage replied. "I am not 
certain of drawing my next breath. But go ahead. Walk into the wood that no 
living man has ever walked out of. Death is life's one great certainty, Tanis."
The half-elf felt a sudden urge to throw Raistlin off the side of the mountain. 
He stared after Sturm, who was nearly halfway down into the valley.
"I'm going with Sturm," he said suddenly. "But I'll be responsible for no one 
else in this decision. The rest of you may follow as you choose."
"I'm coming!" Tasslehoff rolled his map up and slipped it into his scroll case. 
He scrambled to his feet, sliding in the loose rock.
"Ghosts!" Flint scowled at Raistlin, snapped his fingers derisively, then 
stumped over to stand beside the half-elf. Goldmoon followed unhesitatingly, 
though her face was pale. Riverwind joined the group more slowly, his face 
thoughtful. Tanis was relieved-the barbarians had many frightening legends of 
Darken Wood, he knew. And finally, Raistlin moved forward so rapidly he took his 
brother completely by surprise.
Tanis regarded the mage with a slight smile. "Why do you come?" he couldn't help 
asking.
"Because you will need me, Half-Elven," the mage hissed. "Besides, where would 
you have us go? You have allowed us to be led this far-there can be no turning 
back. It is the Ogre's Choice you offer us, Tanis-'Die fast or die slow.' " He 
set off down the side of the Peak. "Coming, brother?"
The others glanced uneasily at Tanis as the brothers passed. The half-elf felt 
like a fool. Raistlin was right, of course. He'd let this go far beyond his 
control, then made it seem as if it were their decision, not his, allowing him 
to go forward with a clear conscience. Angrily he picked up a rock and hurled it 
far down the mountainside. Why was it his responsibility in the first place? Why 
had he gotten involved, when all he had wanted was to find Kitiara and tell her 
his mind was made up-he loved her and wanted her. He could accept her human 
frailties as he had learned to accept his own.
But Kit hadn't come back to him. She had a "new lord." Maybe that's why he'd-
"Ho, Tanis!" The kender's voice floated up to him.
"I'm coming," he muttered.
The sun was just beginning to dip into the west when the companions reached the 
edge of the forest. Tanis figured they had at least three or four hours of 
daylight left. If the stag continued to lead them on smooth, clear trails, they 
might be able to get through this forest before darkness fell.
Sturm waited for them beneath the aspens, resting comfortably in the leafy, 
green shade. The companions left the meadow slowly, none of them in any hurry to 
enter the woods.
"The stag entered here," Sturm said, rising to his feet and pointing into the 
tall grass.
Tanis saw no tracks. He took a drink of water from his nearly empty waterskin 
and stared into the forest. As Tasslehoff had said, the wood did not seem 
sinister. In fact, it looked cool and inviting after the harsh brilliance of the 
autumn sunshine.
"Maybe there'll be some game in here," Caramon said, rocking back on his heels. 
"Not stags, of course," he added hastily. "Rabbits, maybe."
"Shoot nothing. Eat nothing. Drink nothing in Darken Wood," Raistlin whispered.
Tanis looked at the mage, whose hourglass eyes were dilated. The metallic skin 
shone a ghastly color in the strong sunlight. Raistlin leaned upon his staff, 
shivering as if from a chill.
"Children's stories," Flint muttered, but the dwarf's voice lacked conviction. 
Although Tanis knew Raistlin's flair for the dramatic, he had never seen the 
mage affected like this before.
"What do you sense, Raistlin?" he asked quietly.
"There is a great and powerful magic laid on this wood," whispered Raistlin.
"Evil?" asked Tanis.
"Only to those who bring evil in with them," the mage stated.
"Then you are the only one who need fear this forest," Sturm told the mage 
coldly.
Caramon's face flushed an ugly red; his hand fumbled for his sword. Sturm's hand 
went to his blade. Tanis gripped Sturm's arm as Raistlin touched his brother. 
The mage stared at the knight, his golden eyes glimmering.
"We shall see," Raistlin said, the words nothing more than hissing sounds 
flicking between his teeth. "We shall see." Then, leaning heavily upon his 
staff, Raistlin turned to his brother. "Coming?"
Caramon glared angrily at Sturm, then entered the wood, walking beside his twin. 
The others moved after them, leaving only Tanis and Flint standing in the long, 
waving grass.
"I'm getting too old for this, Tanis," the dwarf said suddenly.
"Nonsense," the half-elf replied, smiling. "You fought like a-"
"No, I don't mean the bones or the muscles"-the dwarf looked at his gnarled 
hands- "though they're old enough. I mean the spirit. Years ago, before the 
others were born, you and I would have walked into a magicked wood without 
giving it a second thought. Now . . ."
"Cheer up," Tanis said. He tried to sound light, though he was deeply disturbed 
by the dwarfs unusual somberness. He studied Flint closely for the first time 
since meeting outside Solace. The dwarf looked old, but then Flint had always 
looked old. His face, what could be seen through the mass of gray beard and 
moustaches and overhanging white eyebrows, was brown and wrinkled and cracked 
like old leather. The dwarf grumbled and complained, but then Flint had always 
grumbled and complained. The change was in the eyes. The fiery luster was gone.
"Don't let Raistlin get to you," Tanis said. "We'll sit around the fire tonight 
and laugh at his ghost stories."
"I suppose so." Flint sighed. He was silent a moment, then said, "Someday I'll 
slow you up, Tanis. I don't ever want you to think, why do I put up with this 
grumbling old dwarf?"
"Because I need you, grumbling old dwarf," Tanis said, putting his hand on the 
dwarf's heavy-set shoulder. He motioned into the wood, after the others. "I need 
you, Flint. They're all so ... so young. You're like a solid rock that I can set 
my back against as I wield my sword."
Flint's face flushed in pleasure. He tugged at his beard, then cleared his 
throat gruffly. "Yes, well, you were always sentimental. Come along. We're 
wasting time. I want to get through this confounded forest as fast as possible." 
Then he muttered, "Just glad it's daylight."
 
 
10
Darken Wood.
The dead walk. Raistlin's magic.
 
The only thing Tanis felt on entering the forest was relief at being out of the 
glare of the autumn sun. The half-elf recalled all the legends he had heard 
about Darken Wood-stories of ghosts told around the fire at night-and he kept in 
mind Raistlin's foreboding. But all Tanis felt was that the forest was so much 
more alive than any other he had ever entered.
There was no deathly hush as they had experienced earlier. Small animals 
chattered in the brush. Birds fluttered in the high branches above them. Insects 
with gaily colored wings flitted past. Leaves rustled and stirred, flowers 
swayed though no breeze touched them-as if the plants reveled in being alive.
All of the companions entered the forest with their hands on their weapons, wary 
and watchful and distrustful. After a time of trying to avoid making leaves 
crunch, Tas said it seemed "kind of silly," and they relaxed-all except 
Raistlin.
They walked for about two hours, traveling at a smooth, but rapid easy pace 
along a smooth and clear trail. Shadows lengthened as the sun made its downward 
slide. Tanis felt at peace in this forest. He had no fear that the awful, winged 
creatures could follow them here. Evil seemed out of place, unless, as Raistlin 
said, one brought one's own evil into the wood. Tanis looked at the mage. 
Raistlin walked alone, his head bowed. The shadows of the forest trees seemed to 
gather thickly around the young mage. Tanis shivered and realized that the air 
was turning cool as the sun dropped below the treetops. It was time to begin 
thinking about making camp for the night.
Tanis pulled out Tasslehoff's map to study it once more before the light faded. 
The map was of elven design and written across the forest in flowing script were 
the words "Darken Wood." But the woods themselves were only vaguely outlined, 
and Tanis couldn't be certain if the words pertained to this forest or one 
farther south. Raistlin must be wrong, Tanis decided- this can't be Darken Wood. 
Or, if so, its evil was simply a product of the mage's imagination. They walked 
on.
Soon it was twilight, that time of evening when the dying light makes everything 
most vivid and distinct. The companions began to lag. Raistlin limped, and his 
breath came in wheezing gasps. Sturm's face turned ashen. The half-elf was just 
about to call a halt for the night when-as if anticipating his wishes-the trail 
led them right to a large, green glade. Clear water bubbled up from underground 
and trickled down smooth rocks to form a shallow brook. The glade was blanketed 
with thick, inviting grass; tall trees stood guard duty on the edges. As they 
saw the glade, the sun's light reddened, then faded, and the misty shades of 
night crept around the trees.
"Do not leave the path," Raistlin intoned as his companions started to enter the 
glade.
Tanis sighed. "Raistlin," he said patiently, "we'll be all right. The path is in 
plain sight-not ten feet away. Come on. You've got to rest. We all do. 
Look"-Tanis held out the map-"I don't think this is Darken Wood. According to 
this-"
Raistlin ignored the map with disdain. The rest of the companions ignored the 
mage and, moving off the path, began setting up camp. Sturm sank down against a 
tree, his eyes closed in pain, while Caramon stared at the smaller, fleeting 
shadows with a hungry eye. At a signal from Caramon, Tasslehoff slipped off into 
the forest after firewood.
Watching them, the mage's face twisted in a sardonic smile. "You are all fools. 
This is Darken Wood, as you will see before the night is ended." He shrugged. 
"But, as you say, I need rest. However, I will not leave the path." Raistlin sat 
down on the trail, his staff beside him.
Caramon flushed in embarrassment as he saw the others exchanging amused glances. 
"Aw, Raist," the big man said, "join us. Tas has gone for wood and maybe I can 
shoot a rabbit."
"Shoot nothing!" Raistlin actually spoke above a whisper, making everyone start. 
"Harm nothing in Darken Wood! Neither plant nor tree, bird nor animal!"
"I agree with Raistlin," Tanis said. "We have to spend the night here and I 
don't want to kill any animal in this forest if we don't have to."
"Elves never want to kill period," Flint grumbled. "The magician scares us to 
death and you starve us. Well, if anything does attack us tonight, I hope it's 
edible!"
"You and me both, dwarf." Caramon heaved a sigh, went over to the creek, and 
began trying to assuage his hunger by drowning it.
Tasslehoff returned with firewood. "I didn't cut it," he assured Raistlin. "I 
just picked it up."
But even Riverwind couldn't make the wood catch fire. "The wood's wet," he 
stated finally and tossed his tinderbox back into his pack.
"We need light," Flint said uneasily as night's shadows closed in thickly. 
Sounds in the woods that had been innocent in the daytime now seemed sinister 
and threatening.
"Surely you do not fear children's stories," Raistlin hissed.
"No!" snapped the dwarf. "I just want to make certain the kender doesn't rifle 
my pack in the dark."
"Very well" said Raistlin with unusual mildness. He spoke his word of command; 
"Shirak" A pale, white light shone from the crystal on the tip of the mage's 
staff. It was a ghostly light and did little to brighten the darkness. In fact, 
it seemed to emphasize the menace in the night.
"There, you have light," the mage whispered softly. He thrust the bottom of the 
staff into the wet ground.
It was then Tanis realized his elven vision was gone. He should have been able 
to see the warm, red outlines of his companions, but they were nothing more than 
darker shadows against the starry darkness of the glade. The half-elf didn't say 
anything to the others, but the peaceful feeling he had been enjoying was 
pierced by a sliver of fear.
"I'll take the first watch," Sturm offered heavily. "I shouldn't sleep with this 
head wound, anyway. I once knew a man who did-he never woke up."
"We'll watch in twos," Tanis said. "I'll take first watch with you."
The others opened packs and began making up beds on the grass, except for 
Raistlin. He remained sitting on the trail, the light of his staff shining on 
his bowed, hooded head. Sturm settled down beneath a tree. Tanis walked over to 
the brook and drank thirstily. Suddenly he heard a strangled cry behind him. He 
drew his sword and stood, all in one motion. The others had their weapons drawn. 
Only Raistlin sat, unmoving.
"Put your swords away," he said. "They will do you no good. Only a weapon of 
powerful magic could harm these."
An army of warriors surrounded them. That alone would have been enough to chill 
anyone's blood. But the companions could have dealt with that. What they 
couldn't handle was the horror that overwhelmed and numbed their senses. Each 
one recalled Caramon's flippant comment; "I'll fight the living any day of the 
week, but not the dead."
These warriors were dead.
Nothing more than fleeting, fragile white light outlined their bodies. It was as 
if the human warmth that had been theirs while they lived lingered on horribly 
after death. The flesh had rotted away, leaving behind the body's image as 
remembered by the soul. The soul apparently remembered other things, too.
Each warrior was dressed in ancient, remembered armor. Each warrior carried 
remembered weapons that could inflict well- remembered death. But the undead 
needed no weapons. They could kill from fear alone, or by the touch of their 
grave-cold hands.
How can we fight these things? Tanis thought wildly, he who had never felt such 
fear in the face of flesh and blood enemies. Panic engulfed him and he 
considered yelling for the others to turn and run for it.
Angrily, the half-elf forced himself to calm down, to get a grip on reality. 
Reality! He almost laughed at the irony. Running was useless; they would get 
lost, separated. They had to stay and deal with this-somehow. He began to walk 
toward the ghostly warriors. The dead said nothing, made no threatening moves. 
They simply stood, blocking the path. It was impossible to count them since some 
glimmered into being while others faded, only to return when their comrades 
dimmed. Not that it makes any difference, Tanis admitted to himself, feeling 
sweat chill his body. One of these undead warriors could kill all of us simply 
by lifting its hand.
As the half-elf drew nearer to the warriors, he saw a gleam of light- Raistlin's 
staff. The mage, leaning on his staff, stood in front of the huddle of 
companions. Tanis came to stand beside him. The pale crystal light reflected on 
the mage's face, making it seem nearly as ghostly as the faces of the dead 
before him.
"Welcome to Darken Wood, Tanis," the mage said.
"Raistlin-" Tanis choked. He had to try more than once to get his dry throat to 
form a sound. "What are these-"
"Spectral minions," the mage whispered without taking his eyes from them. "We 
are fortunate."
"Fortunate?" Tanis repeated increduously. "Why?"
"These are the spirits of men who gave their pledge to perform some task. They 
failed in that pledge, and it is their doom to keep performing the same task 
over and over until they win their release and find true rest in death."
"How in the name of the Abyss does that make us fortunate?" Tanis whispered 
harshly, releasing his fear in anger. "Perhaps they pledged to rid the forest of 
all who entered!"
"That is possible"-Raistlin flickered a glance at the half-elf-"though I do not 
think it likely. We will find out."
Before Tanis could react, the mage stepped away from the group and faced the 
spectres.
"Raist!" Caramon said in a strangled voice, starting to shove forward.
"Keep him back, Tanis," Raistlin commanded harshly. "Our lives depend on this."
Gripping the warrior's arm, Tanis asked Raistlin, "What are you going to do?"
"I am going to cast a spell that will enable us to communicate with them. I will 
perceive their thoughts. They will speak through me."
The mage threw his head back, his hood slipping off. He stretched out his arms 
and began to speak. "Ast bilak par-bilakar. Suh tangus moipar!"he murmured, then 
repeated that phrase three times. As Raistlin spoke, the crowd of warriors 
parted and a figure more awesome and terrifying than the rest appeared. The 
spectre was taller than the rest and wore a shimmering crown. His pallid armor 
was richly decorated with dark jewels. His face showed the most terrible grief 
and anguish. He advanced upon Raistlin.
Caramon choked and averted his eyes. Tanis dared not speak or cry out, fearful 
of disturbing the mage and breaking the spell. The spectre raised a fleshless 
hand, reached out slowly to touch the young mage. Tanis trembled-the spectre's 
touch meant certain death. But Raistlin, entranced, did not move. Tanis wondered 
if he even saw the chill hand coming toward his heart. Then Raistlin spoke.
"You who have been long dead, use my living voice to tell us of your bitter 
sorrow. Then give us leave to pass through this forest, for our purpose is not 
evil, as you will see if you read our hearts."
The spectre's hand halted abruptly. The pale eyes searched Raistlin's face. 
Then, shimmering in the darkness, the spectre bowed before the mage. Tanis 
sucked in his breath, he had sensed Raistlin's power, but this. . . !
Raistlin returned the bow, then moved to stand beside the spectre. His face was 
nearly as pale as that of the ghostly figure next to him. The living dead and 
the dead living, Tanis thought, shuddering.
When Raistlin spoke, his voice was no longer the wheezing whisper of the fragile 
mage. It was deep and dark and commanding and rang through the forest. It was 
cold and hollow and might have come from below the ground. "Who are you who 
trespass in Darken Wood?"
Tanis tried to answer, but his throat had dried up completely.
Caramon, next to him, couldn't even lift his head. Then Tanis felt movement at 
his side. The kender! Cursing himself, he reached out to grab for Tasslehoff, 
but it was too late. The small figure, topknot dancing, ran out into the light 
of Raistlin's staff and stood before the spectre.
Tasslehoff bowed respectfully. "I am Tasslehoff Burrfoot," he said. "My 
friends"-he waved his small hand at the group- "call me Tas. Who are you?"
"It matters little," the sepulchral voice intoned. "Know only that we are 
warriors from a time long forgotten."
"Is it true that you broke a pledge and that's how you come to be here?" Tas 
asked with interest.
"It is. We pledged to guard this land. Then came the smoldering mountain from 
the heavens. The land was ripped apart. Evil things crept out from the bowels of 
the earth and we dropped our swords and fled in terror until bitter death 
overtook us. We have been called to fulfill our oath as evil once more stalks 
the land. And here will we remain until evil is driven back and balance is 
restored again."
Suddenly Raistlin gave a shriek and flung back his head, his eyes rolling 
upwards until the watching companions could see only the whites. His voice 
became a thousand voices crying out at once. This startled even the kender, who 
stepped back a pace and looked around uneasily for Tanis.
The spectre raised his hand in a commanding gesture, and the tumult ceased as 
though swallowed by the darkness. "My men demand to know the reason you enter 
Darken Wood. If it is for evil, you will find that you have brought evil upon 
yourselves, for you will not live to see the moons rise."
"No, not evil. Certainly not," Tasslehoff said hurriedly. "It's kind of a long 
story, you see, but we're obviously not going anywhere in a big hurry and you're 
obviously not either, so I'll tell it to you.
"To begin with, we were in the Inn of the Last Home in Solace. You probably 
don't know it. I'm not sure how long it's been there, but it wasn't around 
during the Cataclysm and it sounds like you were. Well, there we were, listening 
to the old man talking of Huma and he-the old man, not Huma-told Goldmoon to 
sing her song and she said what song and then she sang and a Seeker decided to 
be a music critic and Riverwind-that's the tall man over there- shoved the 
Seeker into the fire. It was an accident-he didn't mean to. But the Seeker went 
up like a torch! You should have seen it! Anyway, the old man handed me the 
staff and said hit him and I did and the staff turned to blue crystal and the 
flames died and-"
"Blue crystal!" The spectre's voice echoed hollowly from Raistlin's throat as he 
began to walk toward them. Tanis and Strum both jumped forward, grabbing Tas and 
dragging him out of the way. But the spectre seemed intent only on examining the 
group. His flickering eyes focused on Goldmoon. Raising a pale hand, he motioned 
her forward.
"No!" Riverwind tried to prevent her from leaving his side, but she pushed away 
gently and walked over to stand before the spectre, the staff in her hand. The 
ghostly army encircled them.
Suddenly the spectre drew his sword from its pallid sheath. He held it high 
overhead and white light tinged with blue flame flickered from the blade.
"Look at the staff!" Goldmoon gasped.
The staff glowed pale blue, as if answering the sword.
The ghostly king turned to Raistlin and reached his pale hand toward the 
entranced mage. Caramon gave a hoarse bellow and broke free of Tanis's grip. 
Drawing his sword, he lunged at the undead warrior. The blade pierced the 
flickering body, but it was Caramon who screamed in pain and dropped, writhing, 
to the ground. Tanis and Sturm knelt beside him. Raistlin stared ahead, his 
expression unchanged, unmoving.
"Caramon, where-" Tanis held him, trying frantically to see where the big man 
was injured.
"My hand!" Caramon rocked back and forth, sobbing, his left hand-his sword 
hand-thrust tightly under his right arm.
"What's the matter?" Tanis asked. Then, seeing the warrior's sword on the 
ground, he knew; Caramon's sword was rimed with frost.
Tanis looked up in horror and saw the spectre's hand close tightly around 
Raistlin's wrist. A shudder wracked the mage's frail body; his face twisted in 
pain but he did not fall. The mage's eyes closed, the lines of cynicism and 
bitterness smoothed away and the peace of death descended on him. Tanis watched 
in awe, only partially aware of Caramon's hoarse cries. He saw Raistlin's face 
transform again, this time imbued with ecstasy. The mage's aura of power 
intensified until it glowed around him with an almost palpable brilliance.
"We are summoned," Raistlin said. The voice was his own and yet like none Tanis 
had ever heard him use. "We must go."
The mage turned his back on them and walked into the woods, the ghostly king's 
fleshless hand still grasping his wrist. The circle of undead parted to let him 
pass.
"Stop them," Caramon moaned. He staggered to his feet.
"We can't!" Tanis fought to restrain him, and finally the big man collapsed in 
the half-elf's arms, weeping like a child. "We'll follow him. He'll be all 
right. He's magi, Caramon-we can't understand. We'll follow-"
The eyes of the undead flickered with an unholy light as they watched the 
companions pass them and enter the forest. The spectral army closed ranks behind 
them.
The companions stepped into a raging battle. Steel rang, wounded men shrieked 
for help. So real was the clash of armies in the darkness that Sturm drew his 
sword reflexively. The tumult deafened him; he ducked and dodged unseen blows 
that he knew were aimed at him. He swung his sword in desperation black air, 
knowing that he was doomed and there was no escape. He began to run, and he 
suddenly stumbled out of the forest into a barren, wasted glade. Raistlin stood 
before him, alone.
The mage's eyes were closed. He sighed gently, then collapsed to the ground. 
Sturm ran to him, then Caramon appeared, nearly knocking Sturm over to reach his 
brother and gather him tenderly in his arms. One by one, the others ran as if 
driven into the glade. Raistlin was still murmuring strange, unfamiliar words. 
The spectres vanished.
"Raist!" Caramon sobbed brokenly.
The mage's eyelids flickered and opened. "The spell . . . drained me. . . ." he 
whispered. "I must rest. . . ."
"And rest ye shall!" boomed a voice-a living voice!
Tanis breathed a sigh of relief even as he put his hand on his sword. Quickly he 
and the others jumped protectively in front of Raistlin, turning to face 
outward, staring into the darkness. Then the silver moon appeared, suddenly, as 
if a hand had produced it from beneath a black silk scarf. Now they could see 
the head and shoulders of a man standing amid the trees. His bare shoulders were 
as large and heavy as Caramon's. A mane of long hair curled around his neck; his 
eyes were bright and glittered coldly. The companions heard a rustling in the 
brush and saw the flash of a spear tip being raised, pointing at Tanis.
"Put thy puny weapons down," the man warned. "Ye be surrounded and have not a 
chance."
"A trick," Sturm growled, but even as he spoke there was a tremendous crashing 
and cracking of tree limbs. More men appeared, surrounding them, all armed with 
spears that glinted in the moonlight.
The first man strode forward then, and the companions stared in amazement, their 
hands on their weapons going slack.
The man wasn't a man at all, but a centaur! Human from the waist up, he had the 
body of a horse from the waist down. He cantered forward with easy grace, 
powerful muscles rippling across his barrel chest. Other centaurs moved into the 
path at his commanding gesture. Tanis sheathed his sword. Flint sneezed.
"Thee must come with us," the centaur ordered.
"My brother is ill," Caramon growled. "He can't go anywhere."
"Place him upon my back," the centaur said coolly. "In fact, if any of you be 
tired, thee may ride to where we go."
"Where are you taking us?" Tanis asked.
"Thee is in no position to ask questions." The centaur reached out and prodded 
Caramon's back with his spear. "We travel far and fast. I suggest thee ride. But 
fear not." He bowed before Goldmoon, extending his foreleg and touching his hand 
to his shaggy hair. "Harm will not come to thee this night."
"Can I ride, Tanis, please?" begged Tasslehoff.
"Don't trust them!" Flint sneezed violently.
"I don't trust them," Tanis muttered, "but we don't seem to have a whole lot of 
choice in the matter-Raistlin can't walk. Go on, Tas. The rest of you, too."
Caramon, scowling at the centaurs suspiciously, lifted his brother in his arms 
and set him upon the back of one of the half-man, half-animal. Raistlin slumped 
forward weakly.
"Climb up," the centaur said to Caramon. "I can bear the weight of thee both. 
Thy brother will need thy support, for we ride swiftly tonight."
Flushing with embarrassment, the big warrior clambered onto the centaur's broad 
back, his huge legs dangling almost to the ground. He put an arm around Raistlin 
as the centaur galloped down the path. Tasslehoff, giggling with excitement, 
jumped onto a centaur and promptly slid off the other side into the mud. Sturm, 
sighing, picked up the kender and set him on the centaur's back. Then, before 
Flint could protest, the knight lifted the dwarf up behind Tas. Flint tried to 
speak but could only sneeze as the centaur moved away. Tanis rode with the first 
centaur, who seemed to be the leader.
"Where are you taking us?" Tanis asked again.
"To the Forestmaster," the centaur answered.
"The Forestmaster?" Tanis repeated. "Who is he-one like yourselves?"
"She is the Forestmaster," the centaur replied and began to canter down the 
trail.
Tanis started to ask another question, but the centaur's quickened pace jolted 
him, and he nearly bit through his tongue as he came down hard on the centaur's 
back. Feeling himself start to slide backwards as the centaur trotted faster and 
faster, Tanis threw his arms around the centaur's broad torso.
"Nar, thee doesn't need to squeeze me in two!" The centaur glanced back, his 
eyes glittering in the moonlight. "It be my job to see thee stays on. Relax. Put 
thy hands on me rump to balance thyself. There, now. Grip with thy legs."
The centaurs left the trail and plunged into the forest. The moonlight was 
immediately swallowed up by the dense trees. Tanis felt branches whip past, 
swiping at his clothing. The centaur never swerved or slowed in his gallop, 
however, and Tanis could only assume he knew the trail well, a trail the 
half-elf couldn't see.
Soon the pace began to slacken and the centaur finally came to a stop. Tanis 
could see nothing in the smothering darkness.
He knew his companions were near only because he could hear Raistlin's shallow 
breathing, Caramon's jingling armor, and Flint's unabated sneezing. Even the 
light from Raistlin's staff had died.
"A powerful magic is laid on this forest," the mage whispered weakly when Tanis 
asked him about it. "This magic dispels all others."
Tanis's uneasiness grew. "Why are we stopping?"
"Because thee art here. Dismount," the centaur ordered gruffly.
"Where is here?" Tanis slid off the centaur's broad back onto the ground. He 
stared around him but could see nothing. Apparently the trees kept even the 
smallest glimmer of moonlight or starlight from penetrating through to the 
trail.
"Thee stands in the center of Darken Wood," the centaur replied. "And now I bid 
thee farewell-or fare evil, depending on how the Forestmaster judges thee."
"Wait a minute!" Caramon called out angrily. "You can't just leave us here in 
the middle of this forest, blind as newborn kittens-"
"Stop them!" Tanis ordered, reaching for his sword. But his weapon was gone. An 
explosive oath from Sturm indicated the knight had discovered the same thing.
The centaur chuckled. Tanis heard hooves beat into soft earth and tree branches 
rustled. The centaurs were gone.
"Good riddance!" Flint sneezed.
"Are we all here?" Tanis asked, reaching out his hand and feeling Sturm's 
strong, reassuring grasp.
"I'm here," piped Tasslehoff. "Oh, Tanis, wasn't it wonderful? I-"
"Hush, Tas!" Tanis snapped. "The Plainsmen?"
"We're here," said Riverwind grimly. "Weaponless."
"No one has a weapon?" Tanis asked. "Not that it would do us much good in this 
cursed blackness," he amended bitterly.
"I have my staff," Goldmoon's low voice said softly.
"And a formidable weapon that is, daughter of Que-shu," came a deep voice. "A 
weapon for good, intended to combat illness and injury and disease." The unseen 
voice grew sad, "In these times it will also be used as a weapon against the 
evil creatures who seek to find and banish it from the world."
 
 
11
The Forestmaster.
A peaceful interlude.
 
Who are you?" Tanis called. "Show yourself!"
"We will not harm you," bluffed Caramon.
"Of course you won't." Now the deep voice was amused. "You have no weapons. I 
will return them when the time is propitious. No one brings weapons into Darken 
Wood, not even a Knight of Solamnia. Do not fear, noble knight. I recognize your 
blade as ancient and most valuable! I will keep it safe. Forgive this apparent 
lack of trust, but even the great Huma laid the Dragonlance at my feet."
"Huma!" Sturm gasped. "Who are you?"
"I am the Forestmaster." Even as the deep voice spoke, the darkness parted. A 
gasp of awe, gentle as a spring wind, swept the company as they stared before 
them. Silver moonlight shone brightly on a high rock ledge. Standing on the 
ledge was a unicorn. She regarded them coolly, her intelligent eyes gleaming 
with infinite wisdom.
The unicorns beauty pierced the heart. Goldmoon felt swift tears spring to her 
eyes and she was forced to close them against the animal's magnificent radiance. 
Her fur was the silver of moonlight, her horn was shining pearl, her mane like 
seafoam. The head might have been sculpted from glistening marble, but no human 
or even dwarven hand could capture the elegance and grace that lived in the fine 
lines of the powerful neck and muscular chest. The legs were strong but 
delicate, the hooves small and cloven like those of a goat. In later days, when 
Goldmoon walked dark paths and her heart was bleak with despair and 
hopelessness, she had only to shut her eyes and remember the unicorn to find 
comfort.
The unicorn tossed her head and then lowered it in grave welcome. The 
companions, feeling awkward and clumsy and confused, bowed in return. The 
unicorn suddenly whirled and left the rock ledge, cantering down the rocks 
toward them.
Tanis, feeling a spell lifted from him, looked around. The bright silver 
moonlight lit a sylvan glade. Tall trees surrounded them like giant, beneficent 
guardians. The half-elf was aware of a deep abiding sense of peace here. But 
there was also a waiting sadness.
"Rest yourselves," the Forestmaster said as she came among them. "You are tired 
and hungry. Food will be brought and fresh water for cleansing. You may put 
aside your watchfulness and fears for this evening. Safety exists here, if it 
exists anywhere in this land tonight."
Caramon, his eyes lighting up at the mention of food, eased his brother to the 
ground. Raistlin sank into the grass against the trunk of a tree. His face was 
deathly pale in the silver moonlight, but his breathing was easy. He did not 
seem ill so much as just terribly exhausted. Caramon sat next to him, looking 
around for food. Then he heaved a sigh.
"Probably more berries anyway," the warrior said unhappily to Tanis. "I crave 
meat- roasted deer haunch, a nice sizzling bit of rabbit-"
"Hush," Sturm remonstrated softly, glancing at the Forestmaster. "She'd probably 
consider roasting you first!"
Centaurs came out of the forest bearing a clean, white cloth, which they spread 
on the grass. Others placed clear crystal globe lights on the cloth, 
illuminating the forest.
Tasslehoff stared at the lights curiously. "They're bug lights!"
The crystal globes held thousands of tiny bugs, each one having two brightly 
glowing spots on its back. They crawled around inside the globes, apparently 
content to explore their surroundings.
Next, the centaurs brought bowls of cool water and clean white cloths to bathe 
their faces and hands. The water refreshed their bodies and minds as it washed 
away the stains of battle. Other centaurs placed chairs, which Caramon stared at 
dubiously. They were crafted of one piece of wood that curved around the body. 
They appeared comfortable, except that each chair had only one leg!
"Please be seated," said the Forestmaster graciously.
"I can't sit in that!" the warrior protested. "I'll tip over." He stood at the 
edge of the tablecloth. "Besides, the tablecloth is spread on the grass. I'll 
sit on the grass with it."
"Close to the food," muttered Flint into his beard. The others glanced uneasily 
at the chairs, the strange crystal bug lamps, and the centaurs. The Chieftain's 
Daughter, however, knew what was expected of guests. Although the outside world 
might have considered her people barbarians, Goldmoon's tribe had strict rules 
of politeness that must be religiously observed. Goldmoon knew that to keep your 
host waiting was an insult to both the host and his bounty. She sat down with 
regal grace. The one-legged chair rocked slightly, adjusting to her height, 
crafting itself for her alone.
"Sit at my right hand, warrior," she said formally, conscious, of the many eyes 
upon them. Riverwind's face showed no emotion, though he was a ludicrous sight 
trying to bend his tall body to sit in the seemingly fragile chair. But-once 
seated-he leaned back comfortably, almost smiling in disbelieving approval.
"Thank you all for waiting until I was seated," Goldmoon said hastily, to cover 
the others' hesitation. "You may all sit now."
"Oh, that's all right," began Caramon, folding his arms across his chest. "I 
wasn't waiting. I'm not going to sit in these weird chair-" Sturm's elbow dug 
sharply into the warrior's ribs.
"Gracious lady," Sturm bowed and sat down with knightly dignity.
"Well, if he can do it, so can I," muttered Caramon, his decision hastened by 
the fact that the centaurs were bringing in food. He helped his brother to a 
seat and then sat down gingerly, making certain the chair bore his weight.
Four centaurs positioned themselves at each of the four corners of the huge 
white cloth spread out upon the ground. They lifted the cloth to the height of a 
table, then released it. The cloth remained floating in place, its delicately 
embroidered surface as hard and sturdy as one of the solid tables in the Inn of 
the Last Home.
"How splendid! How do they do that?" Tasslehoff cried, peering underneath the 
cloth. "There's nothing under there!" he reported, his eyes wide. The centaurs 
laughed uproariously and even the Forestmaster smiled. Next the centaurs laid 
down plates made of beautifully cut and polished wood. Each guest was given a 
knife and fork fashioned from the horns of a deer. Platters of hot roasted meat 
filled the air with a tantalizing smoky aroma. Fragrant loaves of bread and huge 
wooden bowls of fruit glistened in the soft lamplight.
Caramon, feeling secure in his chair, rubbed his hands together. Then he grinned 
broadly and picked up his fork. "Ahhhh!" He sighed in appreciation as one of the 
centaurs set before him a platter of roasted deer meat. Caramon plunged his fork 
in, sniffing in rapture at the steam and juice that gushed forth from the meat. 
Suddenly he realized everyone was staring at him. He stopped and looked around.
"Wha-?" he asked, blinking. Then his eyes rested on the Forestmaster and he 
flushed and hurriedly removed his fork. "I ... I beg your pardon. This deer must 
have been someone you knew-I mean-one of your subjects."
The Forestmaster smiled gently. "Be at ease, warrior," she said. The deer 
fulfills his purpose in life by providing sustenance for the hunter-be it wolf 
or man. We do not mourn the loss of those who die fulfilling their destinies."
It seemed to Tanis that the Forestmaster's dark eyes went to Sturm as she spoke, 
and there was a deep sadness in them that filled the half-elf's heart with cold 
fear. But when he turned back to the Forestmaster, he saw the magnificent animal 
smiling once more. "My imagination," he thought.
"How do we know, Master," Tanis asked hesitantly, "whether the life of any 
creature has fulfilled its destiny? I have known the very old to die in 
bitterness and despair. I have seen young children die before their time but 
leave behind such a legacy of love and joy that grief for their passing was 
tempered by the knowledge that their brief lives had given much to others."
"You have answered your own question, Tanis Half-Elven, far better than I 
could," the Forestmaster said gravely. "Say that our lives are measured not by 
gain but by giving."
The half-elf started to reply but the Forestmaster interrupted. "Put your cares 
aside for now. Enjoy the peace of my forest while you may. Its time is passing."
Tanis glanced sharply at the Forestmaster, but the great animal had turned her 
attention away from him and was staring far off into the woods, her eyes clouded 
with sorrow. The half-elf wondered what she meant, and he sat, lost in dark 
thoughts until he felt a gentle hand touch his.
"You should eat," Goldmoon said. "Your cares won't vanish with the meal-and, if 
they do, so much the better."
Tanis smiled at her and began to eat with a sharp appetite. He took the 
Forestmaster's advice and relegated his worries to the back of his mind for a 
while. Goldmoon was right; they weren't likely to go away.
The rest of the companions did the same, accepting the strangeness of their 
surroundings with the aplomb of seasoned travelers. Though there was nothing to 
drink but water-much to Flint's disappointment-the cool, clear liquid washed the 
terrors and doubts from their hearts as it had cleansed the blood and dirt from 
their hands. They laughed, talked, and ate, enjoying each other's companionship. 
The Forestmaster spoke to them no more but watched each in turn.
Sturm's pale face had regained some color. He ate with grace and dignity Sitting 
next to Tasslehoff, he answered the kender's inexhaustible store of questions 
about his homeland. He also, without calling undue attention to the fact, 
removed from Tasslehoff's pouch a knife and fork that had unaccountably made 
their way there. The knight sat as far from Caramon as possible and did his best 
to ignore him.
The big warrior was obviously enjoying his meal. He ate three times more than 
anyone else, three times as fast, and three times as loudly. When not eating, he 
described to Flint a fight with a troll, using the bone he was chewing on as a 
sword to illustrate his thrusts and parries. Flint ate heartily and told Caramon 
he was the biggest liar in Krynn.
Raistlin, sitting beside his brother, ate very little, taking nibbles of only 
the tenderest meat, a few grapes, and a bit of bread he soaked in water first. 
He said nothing but listened intently to everyone, absorbing all that was said 
into his soul, storing it for future reference and use.
Goldmoon ate her meal delicately, with practised ease. The Que-shu princess was 
accustomed to eating in public view and could make conversation easily. She 
chatted with Tanis, encouraging him to describe the elven lands and other places 
he had visited. Riverwind, next to her, was accutely uncomfortable and 
self-conscious. Although not a boisterous eater like Caramon, the Plainsman was 
obviously more accustomed to eating at the campfires of his fellow tribesmen 
than in royal halls. He handled cutlery with awkward clumsiness and he knew that 
he appeared crude beside Goldmoon. He said nothing, seeming willing to fade into 
the background.
Finally everyone began shoving plates away and settling back in the strange 
wooden chairs, ending their dinner with pieces of sweet shortcake. Tas began to 
sing his kender trailsong, to the delight of the centaurs. Then suddenly 
Raistlin spoke. His soft, whispering voice slithered through the laughter and 
loud talk.
"Forestmaster"-the mage hissed the name-"today we fought loathsome creatures 
that we have never seen before on Krynn. Can you tell us of these?"
The relaxed and festive mood was smothered as effectively as if covered by a 
shroud. Everyone exchanged grim looks.
"These creatures walk like men," Caramon added, "but look like reptiles. They 
have clawed hands and feet and wings and"-his voice dropped-"they turn to stone 
when they die."
The Forestmaster regarded them with sadness as she rose to her feet. She seemed 
to expect the question.
"I know of these creatures," she answered. "Some of them entered the Darken Wood 
with a party of goblins from Haven a week ago. They wore hoods and cloaks, no 
doubt to disguise their horrible appearance. The centaurs followed them in 
secret, to make certain they harmed no one before the spectral minions dealt 
with them. The centaurs reported that the creatures call themselves 'draconians' 
and speak of belonging to the 'Order of Draco.'"
Raistlin's brow furrowed. "Draco," he whispered, puzzled.
"But who are they? What race or species?"
"I do not know. I can tell you only this; they are not of the animal world, and 
they belong to none of the races of Krynn."
This took a moment for everyone to assimilate. Caramon blinked. "I don't-" he 
began.
"She means, my brother, that they are not of this world," Raistlin explained 
impatiently.
"Then where'd they come from?" Caramon asked, startled.
"That's the question, isn't it?" Raistlin said coldly. "Where did they come 
from-and why."
"I cannot answer that." The Forestmaster shook her head.
"But I can tell you that before the spectral minions put an end to these 
draconians, they spoke of 'armies to the north.'"
"I saw them." Tanis rose to his feet. "Campfires-" His voice caught in his 
throat as he realized what the Forestmaster had been about to say. "Armies! Of 
these draconians? There must be thousands!" Now everyone was standing and 
talking at once.
"Impossible!" the knight said, scowling.
"Who's behind this? The Seekers? By the gods," Caramon bellowed, "I've got a 
notion to go to Haven and bash-"
"Go to Solamnia, not to Haven," Sturm advised loudly.
"We should travel to Qualinost," Tanis argued. "The elves-"
"The elves have their own problems," the Forestmaster interrupted, her cool 
voice a calming influence. "As do the Highseekers of Haven. No place is safe. 
But I will tell you where you must go to find answers to your questions."
"What do you mean you will tell us where to go?" Raistlin stepped forward 
slowly, his red robes rippling around him as he walked. "What do you know of 
us?" The mage paused, his eyes narrowing with a sudden thought.
"Yes, I was expecting you," the Forestmaster replied in answer to Raistlin's 
thoughts. "A great and shining being appeared to me in the wilderness this day. 
He told me that the one bearing the blue crystal staff would come this night to 
Darken Wood. The spectral minions would let the staff-bearer and her companions 
pass-though they have allowed no human or elf or dwarf or kender to enter Darken 
Wood since the Cataclysm. I was to give the bearer of the staff this message; 
'You must fly straight away across the Eastwall Mountains. In two days the 
staffbearer must be within Xak Tsaroth. There, if you prove worthy, you shall 
receive the greatest gift given to the world.'"
"Eastwall Mountains!" The dwarf's mouth dropped open. "We'll need to fly all 
right, to reach Xak Tsaroth in two days time. Shining being! Hah!" He snapped 
his fingers.
The rest glanced uneasily at each other. Finally Tanis said hesitantly, "I'm 
afraid the dwarf is right, Forestmaster. The journey to Xak Tsaroth would be 
long and perilous. We would have to go back through lands we know are inhabited 
by goblins and these draconians."
"And then we would have to pass through the Plains," Riverwind spoke for the 
first time since meeting the Forestmaster. "Our lives are forfeit." He gestured 
toward Goldmoon. "The Que-shu are fierce fighters and they know the land. They 
are waiting. We would never get through safely." He looked at Tanis. "And my 
people have no love for elves."
"And why go to Xak Tsaroth anyway?" Caramon rumbled. "Greatest gift-what could 
that be? A powerful sword? A chest of steel coins? That would come in handy, but 
there's battle brewing up north apparently. I'd hate to miss it."
The Forestmaster nodded gravely. "I understand your,dilemma," she said. "I offer 
what help is in my power. I will see to it that you reach Xak Tsaroth in two 
days. The question is, will you go?"
Tanis turned to the others. Sturm's face was drawn. He met Tanis's look and 
sighed. "The stag led us here," he said slowly, "perhaps to receive this advice. 
But my heart lies north, in my homeland. If armies of these draconians are 
preparing to attack, my place is with those Knights who will surely band 
together to fight this evil. Still, I do not want to desert you, Tanis, or you, 
lady." He nodded to Goldmoon, then slumped down, his aching head in his hands.
Caramon shrugged. "I'll go anywhere, fight anything, Tanis. You know that. What 
say you, brother?"
But Raistlin, staring into the darkness, did not answer.
Goldmoon and Riverwind were speaking together in low voices. They nodded to each 
other, then Goldmoon said to Tanis, "We will go to Xak Tsaroth. We appreciate 
everything you've done for us-"
"But we ask for no man's help any longer," Riverwind stated proudly. "This is 
the completion of our quest. As we began alone, so we will finish it alone."
"And you will die alone!" Raistlin said softly.
Tanis shivered. "Raistlin," he said, "a word with you."
The mage turned obediently and walked with the half-elf into a small thicket of 
gnarled and stunted trees. Darkness closed around them.
"Just like the old days," Caramon said, his eyes following hismbrother uneasily.
"And look at all the trouble we got into then," Flint reminded him, plopping 
down onto the grass.
"I wonder what they talk about?" Tasslehoff said. Long ago, the kender had tried 
to eavesdrop on these private conversations between the mage and the half-elf, 
but Tanis had always caught him and shooed him away. "And why can't they discuss 
it with us?"
"Because we'd probably rip Raistlin's heart out," Sturm answered, in a low, 
pain-filled voice. "I don't care what you say, Caramon, there's a dark side to 
your brother, and Tanis has seen it. For which I'm grateful. He can deal with 
it. I couldn't."
Uncharacteristically, Caramon said nothing. Sturm stared at the warrior, 
startled. In the old days, the fighter would have leaped to his brother's 
defense. Now he sat silent, preoccupied, his face troubled. So there is a dark 
side to Raistlin, and now Caramon, too, knows what it is. Sturm shuddered, 
wondering what had happened in these past five years that cast such a dark 
shadow across the cheerful warrior.
Raistlin walked close to Tanis. The mage's arms were crossed in the sleeves of 
his robes, his head bowed in thought. Tanis could feel the heat of Raistlin's 
body radiate through the red robes, as though he were being consumed by an inner 
fire. As usual, Tanis felt uncomfortable in the young mage's presence. Yet, 
right now, he knew of no one else he could turn to for advice. "What do you know 
of Xak Tsaroth?" Tanis asked.
"There was a temple there-a temple to the ancient gods," Raistlin whispered. His 
eyes glittered in the eerie light of the red moon. "It was destroyed in the 
Cataclysm and its people fled, certain that the gods had abandoned them. It 
passed from memory. I did not know it still existed."
"What did you see, Raistlin?" Tanis asked softly, after a long pause. "You 
looked far away-what did you see?"
"I am magi, Tanis, not a seer."
"Don't give me that," Tanis snapped. "It's been a long time, but not that long. 
I know you don't have the gift of foresight. You were thinking, not scrying. And 
you came up with answers. I want those answers. You've got more brains than all 
of us put together, even if-" he stopped.
"Even if I am twisted and warped." Raistlin's voice rose with harsh arrogance. 
"Yes, I am smarter than you-all of you. And someday I will prove it! Someday 
you-with all your strength and charm and good looks-you-all of you, will call me 
master!" His hands clenched to fists inside his robes, his eyes flared red in 
the crimson moonlight. Tanis, who was accustomed to this tirade, waited 
patiently. The mage relaxed, his hands unclenched. "But for now, I give you my 
advice. What did I see? These armies, Tanis, armies of draconians, will overrun 
Solace and Haven and all the lands of your fathers. That is the reason we must 
reach Xak Tsaroth. What we find there will prove this army's undoing."
"But why are there armies?" Tanis asked. "What would anyone want with control of 
Solace and Haven and the Plains to the east? Is it the Seekers?"
"Seekers! Hah!" Raistlin snorted. "Open your eyes, Half-Elf. Someone or 
something powerful created these creatures-these draconians. Not the idiot 
Seekers. And no one goes to all that trouble to take over two farm cities or 
even to look for a blue crystal staff. This is a war of conquest, Tanis. Someone 
seeks to conquer Ansalon! Within two days time, life on Krynn as we have known 
it will come to an end. This is the portent of the fallen stars. The Queen of 
Darkness has returned. We face a foe who seeks-at the very least-to enslave us, 
or perhaps destroy us completely."
"Your advice?" Tanis asked reluctantly. He felt change coming and, like all 
elves, he feared and detested change.
Raistlin smiled his crooked, bitter smile, reveling in his moment of 
superiority. "That we go to Xak Tsaroth immediately. That we leave tonight, if 
possible, by whatever means this Forestmaster has planned. If we do not acquire 
this gift within two days-the armies of draconians will."
"What do you think the gift might be?" Tanis wondered aloud. "A sword or coins, 
like Caramon said?"
"My brother's a fool," Raistlin stated coldly. "You don't believe that and 
neither do I."
"Then what?" Tanis pursued.
Raistlin's eyes narrowed. "I have given you my advice. Act upon it as you will. 
I have my own reasons for going. Let us leave it at that, Half-Elf. But it will 
be dangerous. Xak Tsaroth was abandoned three hundred years ago. I do not think 
it will have remained abandoned long."
"That is true," Tanis mused. He stood silently for long moments. The mage 
coughed once, softly. "Do you believe we were chosen, Raistlin?" Tanis asked.
The mage did not hesitate. "Yes. So I was given to know in the Towers of 
Sorcery. So Par-Salian told me."
"But why?" Tanis questioned impatiently. "We are not the stuff of heroes-well, 
maybe Sturm-"
"Ah," said Raistlin. "But who chose us? And for what purpose? Consider that, 
Tanis Half-Elven!"
The mage bowed to Tanis, mockingly, and turned to walk back through the brush to 
the rest of the group.
 
 
12
Winged sleep.
Smoke in the east. Dark memories.
 
Xak Tsaroth," Tanis said. "That is my decision."
"Is that what the mage advises?" Sturm asked sullenly.
"It is," Tanis answered, "and I believe his advice is sound. If we do not reach 
Xak Tsaroth within two days, others will and this 'greatest gift' may be lost 
forever."
"The greatest gift!" Tasslehoff said, his eyes shining. "Just think, Flint! 
Jewels beyond price! Or maybe-"
"A keg of ale and Otik's fried potatoes," the dwarf muttered. "And a nice warm 
fire. But no-Xak Tsaroth!"
"I guess we're all in agreement, then," Tanis said. "If you feel you are needed 
in the north, Sturm, of course you-"
"I will go with you to Xak Tsaroth." Sturm sighed. "There is nothing in the 
north for me. I have been deluding myself. The Knights of my order are 
scattered, holed up in crumbling fortresses, fighting off the debt collectors."
The knight's face twisted in agony and he lowered his head. Tanis suddenly felt 
tired. His neck hurt, his shoulders and back ached, his leg muscles twitched. He 
started to say something more, then felt a gentle hand touch his shoulder. He 
looked up to see Goldmoon's face, cool and calm in the moonlight.
"You are weary, my friend," she said. "We all are. But we are glad you are 
coming, Riverwind and I." Her hand was strong. She looked up, her clear gaze 
encompassing the entire group. "We are glad all of you are coming with us."
Tanis, glancing at Riverwind, wasn't certain the tall Plainsman agreed with her.
"Just another adventure," Caramon said, flushing with embarrassment. "Eh, 
Raist?" He nudged his brother. Raistlin, ignoring his twin, looked at the 
Forestmaster.
"We must leave immediately," the mage said coldly. "You mentioned something 
about helping us cross the mountains."
"Indeed," the Forestmaster replied, nodding gravely. "I, too, am glad you have 
made this decision. I hope you find my aid welcome."
The Forestmaster raised her head, looking up into the sky. The companions 
followed her gaze. The night sky, seen through the canopy of tall trees, 
glittered brilliantly with stars. Soon the companions became aware of something 
flying up there, winking out the stars in passing.
"I'll be a gully dwarf," Flint said solemnly. "Flying horses. What next?"
"Oh!" Tasslehoff drew in a deep breath. The kender was transfixed with wonder as 
he watched the beautiful animals circle above them, descending lower and lower 
with each turn, their fur radiating blue-white in the moonlight. Tas clasped his 
hands together. Never in his wildest kender imaginings had he dreamed of flying. 
This was worth fighting all the draconians on Krynn.
The pegasi dipped to the ground, their feathery wings creating a wind that 
tossed the tree branches and laid the grass flat. A large pegasus with wings 
that touched the ground when he walked bowed reverently to the Forest Master. 
His bearing was proud and noble. Each of the other beautiful creatures bowed in 
turn.
"You have summoned us?" the leader asked the Forestmaster.
"These guests of mine have urgent business to the east. I bid you bear them with 
the swiftness of the winds across the Eastwall Mountains."
The pegasus regarded the companions with astonishment. He walked with stately 
mein over to stare first at one, then another. When Tas raised his hand to pet 
the steed's nose, both of the animal's ears swiveled forward and he reared his 
great head back. But when he got to Flint, he snorted in disgust and turned to 
the Forestmaster. "A kender? Humans? And a dwarf!"
"Don't do me any favors, horse!" Flint sneezed.
The Forestmaster merely nodded and smiled. The pegasus bowed in reluctant 
assent. "Very well, master," he replied. With powerful grace, he walked over to 
Goldmoon and started to bend his foreleg, dipping low before her to assist her 
in mounting.
"No, do not kneel, noble animal," she said. "I have ridden horses since before I 
could walk. I need no such assistance." Handing Riverwind her staff, Goldmoon 
threw her arm around the Pegasus's neck and pulled herself astride his broad 
back. Her silver-gold hair blew feathery white in the moonlight, her face was 
pure and cold as marble. Now she truly looked like the princess of a barbarian 
tribe.
She took her staff from Riverwind. Raising it in the air, she lifted her voice 
in song. Riverwind, his eyes shining with admiration, leaped up behind her on 
the back of the winged horse. Putting his arms around her, he added his deep 
baritone voice to hers.
Tanis had no idea what they were singing, but it seemed a song of victory and 
triumph. It stirred his blood and he would have willingly joined in. One of the 
pegasi cantered up to him. He pulled himself up and settled himself on his broad 
back, sitting in front of the powerful wings.
Now all the companions, caught up in the elation of the moment, mounted, 
Goldmoon's song adding wings to their souls as the pegasi spread their huge 
wings and caught the wind currents. They soared higher and higher, circling 
above the forest. The silver moon and the red bathed the valley below and the 
clouds above in an eerie, beautiful, purplish glow that receded into a deeper 
purple night. As the forest fell away from them, the last thing the companions 
saw was the Forestmaster, glimmering like a star fallen from the heavens, 
shining lost and alone in a darkening land.
One by one, the companions felt drowsiness overcome them.
Tasslehoff fought this magically induced sleep longest. Enchanted by the rush of 
wind against his face, spellbound by the sight of the tall trees that normally 
loomed over him reduced to child's toys, Tas struggled to remain awake long 
after everyone else. Flint's head rested against his back, the dwarf snoring 
loudly. Goldmoon was cradled in Riverwind's arms. His head drooped over her 
shoulder. Even in his sleep, he held her protectively. Caramon slumped over his 
horse's neck, breathing stentoriously. His brother rested against his twin's 
broad back. Sturm slept peacefully, the lines of pain gone from his face. Even 
Tanis's bearded face was clear of care and worry and responsibility.
Tas yawned. "No," he mumbled, blinking rapidly and pinching himself.
"Rest now, little kender," his pegasus said in amusement. "Mortals were not 
meant to fly. This sleep is for your protection. We do not want you to panic and 
fall off."
"I won't," Tas protested, yawning again. His head sank forward. The pegasus's 
neck was warm and comfortable, the fur was fragrant and soft. "I won't panic," 
Tas whispered sleepily. "Never panic . . ." He slept.
The half-elf woke with a start to find that he was lying in a grassy meadow. The 
leader of the pegasi stood above him, staring off to the east. Tanis sat up.
"Where are we?" he began. "This isn't a city." He looked around. "Why-we haven't 
even crossed the Mountains yet!"
"I am sorry." The pegasus turned to him. "We could not take you as far as the 
Eastwall Mountains. There is great trouble brewing in the east. A darkness fills 
the air, such a darkness as I have not felt in Krynn for countless-" He stopped, 
lowered his head and pawed the ground restlessly. "I dare not travel farther."
"Where are we?" the confused half-elf repeated. "And where are the other 
pegasi?"
"I sent them home. I remained to guard your sleep. Now that you are awake, I 
must return home as well." The pegasus gazed sternly at Tanis. "I know not what 
awakened this great evil on Krynn. I trust it was not you and your companions."
He spread his great wings.
"Wait!" Tanis scrambled to his feet. "What-"
The pegasus leaped into the air, circled twice, then was gone, flying rapidly 
back to the west.
"What evil?" Tanis asked glumly. He sighed and looked around. His companions 
were sleeping soundly, lying on the ground around him in various poses of 
slumber. He studied the horizon, trying to get his bearings. It was nearly dawn, 
he realized. The sun's light was just beginning to illuminate the east. He was 
standing on a flat prairie. There was not a tree in sight, nothing but rolling 
fields of tall grass as far as he could see.
Wondering what the pegasus had meant about trouble to the east, Tanis sat down 
to watch the sun rise and wait for his friends to wake. He wasn't particularly 
worried about where he was, for he guessed Riverwind knew this land down to the 
last blade of grass. So he stretched out on the ground, facing the east, feeling 
more relaxed after that strange sleep than he had in many nights.
Suddenly he sat upright, his relaxed feeling gone, a tightness clutching at his 
throat like an unseen hand. For there, snaking up to meet the bright new morning 
sun, were three thick, twisting columns of greasy, black smoke. Tanis stumbled 
to his feet. He ran over and shook Riverwind gently, trying to wake the 
Plainsman without disturbing Goldmoon.
"Hush," Tanis whispered, putting a warning finger on his lips and nodding toward 
the sleeping woman as Riverwind blinked at the half-elf. Seeing Tanis's dark 
expression, the barbarian was instantly awake. He stood up quietly and moved off 
with Tanis, glancing around him.
"What's this?" he whispered. "We're in the Plains of Abanasinia. Still about a 
half day's journey from the Eastwall Mountains. My village lies to the east-"
He stopped as Tanis pointed silently eastward. Then he gave a shallow, ragged 
cry as he saw the smoke curling into the sky. Goldmoon jerked awake. She sat up, 
gazed at Riverwind sleepily, then with growing alarm. Turning, she followed his 
horrified stare.
"No," she moaned. "No!" she cried again. Quickly rising, she began to gather 
their possessions. The others woke at her cry.
"What is it?" Caramon jumped up.
"Their village," Tanis said softly, gesturing with his hand. "It's burning. 
Apparently the armies are moving quicker than we thought."
"No," said Raistlin. "Remember-the draconian clerics mentioned they had traced 
the staff to a village in the Plains."
"My people," Goldmoon murmured, energy draining from her. She slumped in 
Riverwind's arms, staring at the smoke. "My father . . ."
"We better get going." Caramon glanced around uneasily. "We show up like a jewel 
in a gypsy dancer's navel."
"Yes," Tanis said. "We've definitely got to get out of here. But where do we 
go?" he asked Riverwind.
"Que-shu," Goldmoon's tone allowed no contraction. "It's on our way. The 
Eastwall Mountains are just beyond my village." She started through the tall 
grass.
Tanis glanced at Riverwind.
"Marulinar the Plainsman called out to her. Running forward, he caught hold of 
Goldmoon's arm. "Nikh pat-takh merilar!" he said sternly.
She stared up at him, her eyes blue and cold as the morning sky. "No," she said 
resolutely, "I am going to our village. It is our fault if something has 
happened. I don't care if there are thousands of those monsters waiting. I will 
die with our people, as I should have done." Her voice failed her. Tanis, 
watching, felt his heart ache with pity.
Riverwind put his arm around her and together they began walking toward the 
rising sun.
Caramon cleared his throat. "I hope I do meet a thousand of those things," he 
muttered, hoisting his and his brother's packs.
"Hey," he said in astonishment. "They're full." He peered in his pack. 
"Provisions. Several days' worth. And my sword's back in my scabbard!"
"At least that's one thing we won't have to worry about," Tanis said grimly. 
"You all right, Sturm?"
"Yes," the knight answered. "I feel much better after that sleep."
"Right, then. Let's go. Flint, wheres Tas?" Turning, Tanis nearly fell over the 
kender who had been standing right behind him.
"Poor Goldmoon," Tas said softly.
Tanis patted him on the shoulder. "Maybe it won't be as bad as we fear," the 
half-elf said, following the Plainsmen through the rippling grass. "Maybe the 
warriors fought them off and those are victory fires."
Tasslehoff sighed and looked up at Tanis, his brown eyes wide. "You're a rotten 
liar, Tanis," the kender said. He had the feeling it was going to be a very long 
day.
Twilight. The pale sun set. Shafts of yellow and tan streaked the western sky, 
then faded into dreary night. The companions sat huddled around a fire that 
offered no warmth, for there existed no flame on Krynn that would drive the 
chill from their souls. They did not speak to each other, but each sat staring 
into the fire, trying to make some sense of what they had seen, trying to make 
sense of the senseless.
Tanis had lived through much that was horrible in his life. But the ravaged town 
of Que-shu would always stand out in his mind as a symbol of the horrors of war.
Even so, remembering Que-shu, he could only grasp fleeting images, his mind 
refusing to encompass the total awful vision. Oddly enough, he remembered the 
melted stones of Que-shu. He remembered them vividly. Only in his dreams did he 
recall the twisted and blackened bodies that lay among the smoking stones.
The great stone walls, the huge stone temples and edifices, the spacious stone 
buildings with their rock courtyards and statuary, the large stone arena-all had 
melted, like butter on a hot summer day. The rock still smoldered, though it was 
obvious that the village must have been attacked well over a sunrise ago. It was 
as if a white-hot, searing flame had engulfed the entire village. But what fire 
was there on Krynn that could melt rock?
He remembered a creaking sound, remembered hearing it and being puzzled by it, 
and wondering what it was until locating the source of the only sound in the 
deathly still town became an obsession. He ran through the ruined village until 
he located the source. He remembered that he shouted to the others until they 
came. They stood staring into the melted arena.
Huge stone blocks had poured down from the side of the bowl-shaped depression, 
forming molten ripples of rock around the bottom of the dish. In the center-on 
grass that was blackened and charred-stood a crude gibbet. Two stout posts had 
been driven into the burned ground by unspeakable force, their bases splintered 
by the impact. Ten feet above the ground, a crosspiece pole was lashed to the 
two posts. The wood was charred and blistered. Scavenger birds perched on the 
top. Three chains, made of what appeared to be iron before it had melted and run 
togther, swung back and forth. This was the cause of the creaking sound. 
Suspended from each chain, apparently by the feet, was a corpse. The corpses 
were not human; they were hobgoblin. On top of the gruesome structure was a 
shield stuck to the crosspiece with a broken swordblade.
Roughly clawed on the battered shield were words written in a crude form of 
Common.
"This is what happens to those who take prisoners against my commands. Kill or 
be killed." It was signed, Verminaard. Verminaard. The name meant nothing to 
Tanis. Other images. He remembered Goldmoon standing in the center of her 
father's ruined house trying to put back together the pieces of a broken vase. 
He remembered a dog-the only living thing they found in the entire 
village-curled around the body of a dead child. Caramon stopped to pet the small 
dog.
The animal cringed, then licked the big man's hand. It then licked the child's 
cold face, looking up at the warrior hopefully, expecting this human to make 
everything all right, to make his little playmate run and laugh again. He 
remembered Caramon stroking the dog's soft fur with his huge hands. He 
remembered Riverwind picking up a rock, holding it, aimlessly, as he stared 
around his burned and blasted village. He remembered Sturm, standing transfixed 
before the gibbet, staring at the sign, and he remembered the knight's lips 
moving as though in prayer or perhaps a silent vow.
He remembered the sorrow-lined face of the dwarf who had seen so much tragedy in 
his long lifetime, as he stood in the center of the ruined village, patting 
Tasslehoff gently on the back after finding the kender sobbing in a corner.
He remembered Goldmoon's frantic search for survivors. She crawled through the 
blackened rubble, screaming out names, listening for faint answers to her calls 
until she was hoarse and Riverwind finally convinced her it was hopeless. If 
there were any survivors, they had long since fled.
He remembered standing alone, in the center of the town, looking at piles of 
dust with arrowheads in them, and recognizing them as bodies of draconians.
He remembered a cold hand touching his arm and the mage's whispering voice. 
"Tanis, we must leave. There is nothing more we can do and we must reach Xak 
Tsaroth. Then we will have our revenge."
And so they left Que-shu. They traveled far into the night, none of them wanting 
to stop, each wanting to push his body to the point of exhaustion so that, when 
they finally slept, there would be no evil dreams.
But the dreams came anyway.
 
 
13
Chill dawn.
Vine bridges. Dark water.
 
Tanis felt clawed hands clutching at his throat. He struggled and fought, then 
woke to find Riverwind bending over him in the darkness, shaking him roughly.
"What . . . ?" Tanis sat up.
"You were dreaming," the Plainsman said grimly. "I had to wake you. Your shouts 
would draw an army down on us."
"Yes, thanks," Tanis muttered. "I'm sorry." He sat up, trying to shake off the 
nightmare. "What time is it?"
"Still several hours till dawn," Riverwind said wearily. He returned to where he 
had been sitting, his back against the trunk of a twisted tree. Goldmoon lay 
sleeping on the ground beside him. She began to murmur and shake her head, 
making small, soft, moaning cries like a wounded animal. Riverwind stroked her 
silver-gold hair, and she quieted.
"You should have wakened me earlier," Tanis said. He stood up, rubbing his 
shoulders and neck. "It's my watch."
"Do you think I could sleep?" asked Riverwind bitterly.
"You've got to," Tanis answered. "You'll slow us up if you don't."
"The men in my tribe can travel for many days without sleep," Riverwind said. 
His eyes were dull and glazed, and he seemed to stare at nothing.
Tanis started to argue, then sighed and kept quiet. He knew that he could never 
truly understand the agony the Plainsman was suffering. To have friends and 
family-an entire life-utterly destroyed, must be so devastating that the mind 
shrank from even imagining it. Tanis left him and walked over to where Flint was 
sitting carving at a piece of wood.
"You might as well get some sleep," Tanis told the dwarf. "I'll watch for a 
while."
Flint nodded. "I heard you yelling over there." He sheathed his dagger and 
thrust the piece of wood into a pouch. "Defending Que-shu?"
Tanis frowned at the memory. Shivering in the chill night, he wrapped his cloak 
around him, drew up his hood. "Any idea where we are?" he asked Flint.
"The Plainsman says we're on a road known as Sageway East," the dwarf answered. 
He stretched out on the cold ground, dragging a blanket up around his shoulders. 
"Some old highway. It's been around since before the Cataclysm."
"I don't suppose we'd be fortunate enough to have this road take us into Xak 
Tsaroth?"
"Riverwind doesn't seem to think so," the dwarf mumbled sleepily. "Says he's 
only followed it a short distance. But at least it gets us through the 
mountains." He gave a great yawn and turned over, pillowing his head on his 
cloak.
Tanis breathed deeply. The night seemed peaceful enough. They hadn't run into 
any draconians or goblins in their wild flight from Que-shu. As Raistlin said, 
apparently the draconians had attacked Que-shu in search of the staff, not as 
part of any preparations for battle. They had struck and then withdrawn. The 
Forestmaster's time limit still held good, Tanis supposed-Xak Tsaroth within two 
days. And one day had already passed.
Shivering, the half-elf walked back over to Riverwind. "Do you have any idea how 
far we have to go and in what direction?" Tanis crouched down next to the 
Plainsman.
"Yes," Riverwind nodded, rubbing his burning eyes. "We must go to the northeast, 
toward Newsea. That is where the city is rumored to be. I have never been 
there-" He frowned, then shook his head. "I've never been there," he repeated.
"Can we reach it by tomorrow?" Tanis asked.
"Newsea is said to be two days' journey from Que-shu." The barbarian sighed. "If 
Tak Tsaroth exists, we should be able to reach it in a day, though I have heard 
that the land from here to Newsea is swampy and difficult to travel."
He shut his eyes, his hand absently stroking Goldmoon's hair. Tanis fell silent, 
hoping the Plainsman would sleep. The half-elf moved quietly to sit beneath the 
tree, staring into the night. He made a mental note to ask Tasslehoff in the 
morning if he had a map.
The kender did have a map, but it wasn't much help, dating, as it did, before 
the Cataclysm. Newsea wasn't on the map since it had appeared after the land had 
been torn apart and the waters of Turbidus Ocean had rushed in to fill it. 
Still, the map showed Xak Tsaroth only a short distance from the highway marked 
Sageway East. They should reach it some time that afternoon, if the territory 
they had to cross wasn't impassable.
The companions ate a cheerless breakfast, most forcing the food down without 
appetite. Raistlin brewed his foul-smelling herbal drink over the small fire, 
his strange eyes lingering on Goldmoon's staff.
"How precious it has become," he commented softly, "now that it has been 
purchased by the blood of innocents."
"Is it worth it? Is it worth the lives of my people?" Goldmoon asked, staring at 
the nondescript brown staff dully. She seemed to have aged during the night. 
Gray circles smudged the skin beneath her eyes.
None of the companions answered, each looking away in awkward silence. Riverwind 
stood up abruptly and stalked off into the woods by himself. Goldmoon lifted her 
eyes and stared after him, then her head sank into her hand and she began to 
weep silently. "He blames himself." She shook her head. "And I am not helping 
him. It wasn't his fault."
"It's not anyone's fault," Tanis said slowly, walking over to her. He put his 
hand on her shoulder, rubbing out the tenseness he felt in the bunched muscles 
of her neck. "We can't understand. We've just got to keep going and hope we find 
the answer in Xak Tsaroth."
She nodded and wiped her eyes, drew a deep breath, and blew her nose on a 
handkerchief Tasslehoff handed her.
"You're right," she said, swallowing. "My father would be ashamed of me. I must 
remember-I am Chieftain's Daughter."
"No," came Riverwind's deep voice from where he stood behind her in the shadows 
of the trees. "You are Chieftain."
Goldmoon gasped. She twisted to her feet to stare, wideeyed, at Riverwind. 
"Perhaps I am," she faltered, "but it is meaningless. Our people are dead-"
"I saw tracks," Riverwind answered. "Some managed to flee. They have probably 
gone into the mountains. They will return, and you will be their ruler."
"Our people . . . still alive!" Goldmoon's face became radiant.
"Not many. Maybe none now. It would depend on whether or not the draconians 
followed them into the mountains." Riverwind shrugged. "Still, you are now their 
ruler"- bitterness crept into his voice-"and I will be husband of Chieftain."
Goldmoon cringed, as though he had struck her. She blinked, then shook her head. 
"No, Riverwind," she said softly. "I... we've talked-"
"Have we?" he interrupted. "I was thinking about it last night. I've been gone 
so many years. My thoughts were of you-as a woman. I did not realize-"He 
swallowed and then drew a deep breath. "I left Goldmoon. I returned to find 
Chieftain's Daughter."
"What choice did I have?" Goldmoon cried angrily. "My father wasn't well. I had 
to rule or Loreman would have taken over the tribe. Do you know what's it 
like-being Chieftain's Daughter? Wondering at every meal if this morsel is the 
one with the poison? Struggling every day to find the money in the treasury to 
pay the soldiers so that foreman would have no excuse to take over! And all the 
time I must act as Chieftain's Daughter, while my father sits and drools and 
mumbles." Her voice choked with tears.
Riverwind listened, his face stern and unmoving. He stared at a point above her 
head. "We should get started," he said coldly. "It's nearly dawn."
The companions had traveled only a few miles on the old, broken road when it 
dumped them, literally, into a swamp. They had noticed that the ground was 
getting spongier and the tall, sturdy trees of the mountain canyon forests 
dwindled. Strange, twisted trees rose up before them. A miasma blotted out the 
sun, and the air became foul to breathe. Raistlin began to cough and he covered 
his mouth with a handkerchief. They stayed on the broken stones of the old road, 
avoiding the dank, swampy ground next to it.
Flint was walking in front with Tasslehoff when suddenly the dwarf gave a great 
shout and disappeared into the muck. They could see only his head.
"Help! The dwarf!" Tas shouted, and the others ran up.
"It's dragging me under!" Flint flailed about the black, oozing mud in panic.
"Hold still," Riverwind cautioned. "You have fallen in deathmirk. Don't go in 
after him!" he warned Sturm who had leaped forward. "You'll both die. Get a 
branch."
Caramon grabbed a young sapling, took a deep breath, grunted, and pulled. They 
could hear its roots snapping and creaking as the huge warrior dragged it out of 
the ground. Riverwind stretched out flat, extending the branch to the dwarf. 
Flint, nearly up to his nose in the slimy muck, thrashed about and finally 
grabbed hold of it. The warrior hauled the tree out of the deathmirk, the dwarf 
clinging to it.
"Tanis" The kender clutched at the half-elf and pointed. A snake, as big around 
as Caramon's arm, slithered into the ooze right where the dwarf had been 
floundering.
"We can't walk through this!" Tanis gestured at the swamp. "Maybe we should turn 
back."
"No time," Raistlin whispered, his hourglass eyes glittering.
"And there is no other way," Riverwind said. His voice sounded strange. "And we 
can get through-I know a path."
"What?" Tanis turned to him. "I thought you said-"
"I've been here," the Plainsman said in a strangled voice. "I can't remember 
when, but I've been here. I know the way through the swamp. And it leads to-" He 
licked his lips.
"Leads to a broken city of evil?" Tanis asked grimly when the Plainsman did not 
finish his sentence.
"Xak Tsaroth!" Raistlin hissed.
"Of course," Tanis said softly. "It makes sense. Where would we go to find 
answers about the staff-except to the place where the staff was given you?"
"And we must go now!" said Raistlin insistently. "We must be there by midnight 
tonight!"
The Plainsman took the lead. He found firm ground around the black water and, 
making them all walk single file, led them away from the road and deeper into 
the swamp. Trees that he called ironclaw rose out of the water, their roots 
standing exposed, twisting into the mud. Vines drooped from their branches and 
trailed across the faint path. The mist closed in, and soon no one could see 
beyond a few feet. They were forced to move slowly, testing every step. A false 
move and they would have plunged into the stinking morass that lay foul and 
stagnant all around them.
Suddenly the trail came to an end in dark swamp water.
"Now what?" Caramon asked gloomily.
This," Riverwind said, pointing. A crude bridge, made out of vines twisted into 
ropes, was attached to a tree. It spanned the water like a spider web.
"Who built it?" Tanis asked.
"I don't know," Riverwind said. "But you will find them all along the path, 
wherever it becomes impassable."
"I told you Xak Tsaroth would not remain abandoned," Raistlin whispered.
"Yes, well-I suppose we shouldn't throw stones at a gift of the gods," replied 
Tanis. "At least we don't have to swim!"
The journey across the vine bridge was not pleasant. The vines were coated with 
slimy moss, which made walking precarious. The structure swayed alarmingly when 
touched, and its motion became erratic when anyone crossed. They made it safely 
to the other side but had walked only a short distance before they were forced 
to use another bridge. And always below them and around them was the dark water, 
where strange eyes watched them hungrily. Then they reached a point where the 
firm ground ended and there were no vine bridges. Ahead was nothing but slimy 
water.
"It isn't very deep," Riverwind muttered. "Follow me. Step only where I step."
Riverwind took a step, then another step, feeling his way, the rest keeping 
right behind him, staring into the water. They stared in disgust and alarm as 
unknown and unseen things slithered past their legs. When they reached firm 
ground again, their legs were coated with slime; all of them gagged from the 
smell. But this last journey seemed, perhaps, to have been the worst. The jungle 
growth was not as thick and they could even seen the sun shining faintly through 
a green haze.
The farther north they traveled the firmer the terrain became. By midday, Tanis 
called a halt when he found a dry patch of ground beneath an ancient oak tree. 
The companions sank down to eat lunch and speak hopefully of leaving the swamp 
behind them. All except Goldmoon and Riverwind. They spoke not at all.
Flint's clothes were sopping wet. He shook with the cold and began complaining 
about pains in his joints. Tanis grew worried. He knew the dwarf was subject to 
rheumatism and remembered what Flint had said about fearing to slow them up.
Tanis tapped the kender and gestured him over to one side.
"I know you've got something in one of your pouches that would take the chill 
off the dwarf's bones, if you know what I mean," Tanis said softly.
"Oh, sure, Tanis," Tas said, brightening. He fumbled around, first in one pouch, 
then another, and finally came up with a gleaming silver flask. "Brandy. Otik's 
finest."
"I don't suppose you paid for it?" Tanis asked, grinning.
"I will," the kender replied, hurt. "Next time I'm there."
"Sure." Tanis patted him on the shoulder. "Share some with Flint. Not too much," 
he cautioned. "Just warm him up."
"All right. And we'll take the lead-we mighty warriors." Tas returned to the 
others. They were silently packing up the remains of lunch and preparing to move 
out. All of us could use some of Otik's finest, he thought. Goldmoon and 
Riverwind had not spoken to each other all morning. Their mood spread a pall on 
everyone. Tanis could think of nothing to do that would end the torture these 
two were experiencing. He could only hope that time would salve the wounds.
The companions continued along the trail for about an hour after lunch, moving 
more quickly since the thickest part of the jungle had been left behind. Just as 
they thought they had left the swamp, however, the firm ground came abruptly to 
an end. Weary, sick with the smell, and discouraged, the companions found 
themselves wading through the muck once again.
Only Flint and Tasslehoff were unaffected by the return to the swamp. These two 
had ranged far ahead of the others. Tasslehoff soon "forgot" Tanis's warning 
about drinking only a little of the brandy. The liquid warmed the blood and took 
the edge off the gloomy atmosphere, so the kender and dwarf passed the flask 
back and forth many times until it was empty and they were traipsing along, 
making jokes about what they would do if they encountered a draconian.
"I'd turn it to stone, all right," the dwarf said, swinging an imaginary 
battle-axe. "Wham!-right in the lizard's gizzard."
"I'll bet Raistlin could turn one to stone with a look!" Tas imitated the mage's 
grim face and dour stare. They both laughed loudly, then hushed, giggling, 
peering back unsteadily to see if Tanis had heard them.
"I'll bet Caramon'd stick a fork in one and eat it" Flint said.
Tas choked with laughter and wiped tears from his eyes. The dwarf roared. 
Suddenly the two came to the end of the spongy ground. Tasslehoff grabbed hold 
of the dwarf as Flint nearly plunged headfirst into a pool of swamp water so 
wide that a vine bridge would not span it. A huge ironclaw tree lay across the 
water, its thick trunk making a bridge wide enough for two people to walk across 
side-by-side.
"Now this is a bridge!" Flint said, stepping back a pace and trying to bring the 
log into focus. "No more spider crawling on those stupid green webs. Let's go."
"Shouldn't we wait for the others?" Tasslehoff asked mildly. "Tanis wouldn't 
want to us to get separated."
"Tanis? Humpf!" The dwarf sniffed. "We'll show him."
"All right," Tasslehoff agreed cheerfully. He leaped up onto the fallen tree. 
"Careful," he said, slipping slightly, then easily catching his balance. "It's 
slick." He took a few quick steps, arms outstretched, his feet pointed out like 
a rope walker he'd seen once at a summer fair.
The dwarf clambered up after the kender, Flint's thick boots clumping clumsily 
on the log. A voice in the unbrandied part of Flint's mind told him he could 
never have done this cold sober. It also told him he was a fool for crossing the 
bridge without waiting for the others, but he ignored it. He was feeling 
positively young again.
Tasslehoff, enchanted with pretending he was Mirgo the Magnificent, looked up 
and discovered that he did, indeed, have an audience -one of those draconian 
things leaped onto the log in front of him. The sight sobered Tas up rapidly. 
The kender was not given to fear, but he was certainly amazed. He had presence 
of mind enough to do two things. First he yelled out loudly, "Tanis, ambush!" 
Then he lifted his hoopak staff and swung it in a wide arc.
The move took the draconian by surprise. The creature sucked in its breath and 
jumped back off the log to the bank below. Tas, momentarily off balance, 
regained his feet quickly and wondered what to do next. He glanced around and 
saw another draconian on the bank. They were, he was puzzled to notice, not 
armed. Before he could consider this oddity, he heard a roar behind him. He had 
forgotten the dwarf.
"What is it?" Flint shouted.
"Draco-thing-a-ma-jiggers," Tas said, gripping his hoopak and peering through 
the mists. "Two ahead! Here they come!"
"Well, confound it, get out of my way!" Flint snarled. Reaching behind, he 
fumbled for his axe.
"Where am I supposed to go?" Tas shouted wildly.
"Duck!" yelled the dwarf.
The kender ducked, throwing himself down on the log as one of the draconians 
came toward him, its clawed hands outstretched. Flint swung his axe in a mighty 
blow that would have decapitated the draconian if it had come anywhere near it. 
Unfortunately, the dwarf miscalculated and the blade whistied harmlessly in 
front of the draconian who was waving its hands in the air and chanting strange 
words.
The momentum of Flint's swing spun the dwarf around. His feet slipped on the 
slimy log, and, with a loud cry, the dwarf tumbled backwards into the water.
Tasslehoff, having been around Raistlin for years, recognized that the draconian 
was casting a magic spell. Lying face down on the log, his hoopak staff clutched 
in his hand, the kender figured he had about one and a half seconds to consider 
what to do. The dwarf was gasping and spluttering in the water beneath him. Not 
inches away, the draconian was clearly reaching a stunning conclusion to his 
spellcasting. Deciding that anything was better than being magicked, Tas took a 
deep breath and dove off the log.
"Tanis! Ambush!"
"Damn!" swore Caramon as the kender's voice floated to them out of the mist 
somewhere ahead.
They all began running toward the sound, cursing the vines and the tree branches 
that blocked their way. Crashing out through the forest, they saw the fallen 
ironclaw bridge. Four draconians ran out of the shadows, blocking their path.
Suddenly the companions were plunged into darkness too thick to see their own 
hands, much less their comrades.
"Magic!" Tanis heard Raistlin hiss. "These are magic-users. Stand aside. You 
cannot fight them."
Then Tanis heard the mage cry out in agony.
"Raist!" Caramon shouted. "Where-ugh-" There was a groan and the sound of a 
heavy body thudding to the ground.
Tanis heard the draconians chanting. Even as he fumbled for his sword, he was 
suddenly covered, head to toe, in a thick, gooey substance that clogged up his 
nose and mouth. Struggling to free himself, he only enmeshed himself further. He 
heard Sturm swearing next to him, Goldmoon cried out, Riverwind's voice was 
choked off, then drowsiness overcame him. Tanis sank to his knees, still 
fighting to free himself from the weblike substance that glued his hands to his 
sides. Then he fell forward on his face and sank into an unnatural sleep. 
 
 
14
Prisoners of the draconians.
 
Laying on the ground, panting for breath, Tasslehoff watched as the draconians 
prepared to carry off his unconscious friends. The kender was well-hidden 
beneath a bush near the swamp. The dwarf was stretched out next to him, knocked 
out cold. Tas glanced at him in remorse. He'd had no choice. In his panic, Flint 
had dragged the kender down in the cold water. If he hadn't clunked the dwarf 
over the head with his hoopak staff, neither of them would have surfaced alive. 
He'd hauled the comatose dwarf up out of the water and hidden him beneath a 
bush.
Then Tasslehoff watched helplessly as the draconians bound his friends magically 
in what looked like strong spider webs. Tas saw they were all apparently 
unconscious-or dead- because they didn't struggle or put up a fight.
The kender did get a certain amount of grim amusement out of watching the 
draconians try to pick up Goldmoon's staff. Evidently they recognized it, for 
they croaked over it in their gutteral language and made gestures of glee. 
One-presumably the leader-reached out to grasp it. There was a flash of blue 
light. Giving a screeching cry, the draconian dropped the staff and hopped up 
and down on the bank, uttering words Tas assumed were impolite. The leader 
finally came up with an ingenious idea. Pulling a fur blanket from Goldmoon's 
pack, the draconian laid it down on the ground. The creature picked up a stick 
and used it to roll the staff onto the blanket. Then it gingerly wrapped the 
staff in the fur and lifted it up triumphantly. The draconians lifted the webbed 
bodies of the kender's friends and bore them away. Other draconians followed 
behind, carrying the companions' packs and their weapons.
As the draconians marched along a path very near the hidden kender, Flint 
suddenly groaned and stirred. Tas clamped his hand over the dwarf's mouth. The 
draconians didn't seem to hear and kept moving. Tas could see his friends 
clearly in the fading afternoon light as the draconians passed. They seemed to 
be sound asleep. Caramon was even snoring. The kender remembered Raistlin's 
sleep spell and figured that was what the draconians had used on his friends.
Flint groaned again. One of the draconians near the end of the line stopped and 
peered into the brush. Tas picked up his hoopak and held it over the dwarf's 
head-just in case. But it wasn't needed. The draconian shrugged and muttered to 
itself, then hurried to catch up with its squad. Sighing in relief, Tas took his 
hand off the dwarf's mouth. Flint blinked and opened his eyes.
"What happened?" The dwarf moaned, his hand on his head.
"You fell off the bridge and hit your head on a log," Tas said glibly.
"I did?" Flint looked suspicious. "I don't remember that. I remember one of 
those draconian things coming at me and I remember falling into the water-"
Well, you did, so don't argue," Tas said hurriedly, getting to his feet. "Can 
you walk?"
"Of course I can walk," the dwarf snapped. He stood up, a little wobbly, but 
erect. "Where is everybody?"
"The draconians captured them and carried them off."
"All of them?" Flints mouth fell open. "Just like that?"
"These draconians were magic-users," Tas said impatiently, anxious to get 
started. "They cast spells, I guess. They didn't hurt them, except for Raistlin. 
I think they did something terrible to him. I saw him as they passed. He looked 
awful. But he's the only one." The kender tugged on the dwarf's wet sleeve. 
"Let's go-we've got to follow them."
"Yeah, sure," Flint mumbled, looking around. Then he put his hand on head again. 
"Where's my helm?"
"At the bottom of the swamp," Tas said in exasperation. "Do you want to go in 
after it?"
The dwarf gave the murky water a horrified glance, shivered, and turned away 
hurriedly. He put his hand to his head again and felt a large bump. "I sure 
don't remember hitting my head," he muttered. Then a sudden thought struck him. 
He felt around his back wildly. "My axe!" he cried.
"Hush!" Tas scolded. "At least you're alive. Now we've got to rescue the 
others."
"And how do you propose to do that without any weapons except that overgrown 
slingshot?" Flint grumbled, stumping along after the fast-moving kender.
"We'll think of something," Tas said confidently, though he felt as if his heart 
were getting tangled up his feet, it had sunk so low.
The kender picked up the draconians' trail without any trouble. It was obviously 
an old and well-used trail; it looked as though hundreds of draconian feet had 
tramped along it. Tasslehoff, examining the tracks, suddenly realized that they 
might be walking into a large camp of the monsters. He shrugged. No use worrying 
about such minor details.
Unfortunately, Flint didn't share the same philosophy. "There's a whole damn 
army up there!" the dwarf gasped, grabbing the kender by the shoulder.
"Yes, well-" Tas paused to consider the situation. He brightened. "That's all 
the better. The more of them there are, the less chance they'll have of seeing 
us." He started off again. Flint frowned. There was something wrong with that 
logic, but right now he couldn't figure out what, and he was too wet and chilled 
to argue. Besides, he was thinking the same thing the kender was; the only other 
choice they had was to escape into the swamp themselves and leave their friends 
in the hands of the draconians. And that was no choice at all.
They walked another half hour. The sun sank into the mist, giving it a blood-red 
tinge, and night fell swiftly in the mirky swamp.
Soon they saw a blazing light ahead of them. They left the trail and sneaked 
into the brush. The kender moved silently as a mouse; the dwarf stepped on 
sticks that snapped beneath his feet, ran into trees, and blundered through the 
brush. Fortunately, the draconian camp was celebrating and probably wouldn't 
have heard an army of dwarves approaching. Flint and Tas knelt just beyond the 
firelight and watched. The dwarf suddenly grabbed the kender with such violence 
that he nearly pulled him over.
"Great Reorx!" Flint swore, pointing. "A dragon!"
Tas was too stunned to say anything. He and the dwarf watched in amazed horror 
as the draconians danced and prostrated themselves before a giant black dragon. 
The creature lurked inside the remaining half shell of a crumbled domed ruin. 
Its head was higher than the treetops, its wings span was enormous. One of the 
draconians, wearing robes, bent before the dragon, gesturing to the staff as it 
lay on the ground with the captured weapons.
"There's something strange about that dragon," Tas whispered after watching for 
a few moments.
"Like they're not supposed to exist?"
"That's just the point," Tas said. "Look at it. The creature isn't moving or 
reacting to anything. It's just sitting there. I always thought that dragons 
would be more lively, don't you know?"
"Go up and tickle its foot!" Flint snorted. "Then you'll see lively!"
"I think I'll do that," the kender said. Before the dwarf could say a word, 
Tasslehoff crept out of the brush, flitting from shadow to shadow as he drew 
near the camp. Flint could have torn his beard out in frustration, but it would 
have been disastrous to try and stop him now. The dwarf could do nothing but 
follow.
"Tanis!"
The half-elf heard someone calling him from across a huge chasm. He tried to 
answer, but his mouth was stuffed with something sticky. He shook his head. Then 
he felt an arm around his shoulders, helping him sit up. He opened his eyes. It 
was night. Judging by the flickering light, a huge fire blazed brightly 
somewhere. Sturm's face, looking concerned, was near his. Tanis sighed and 
reached out his hand to clasp the knight's shoulder. He tried to speak and was 
forced to pull off bits of the sticky substance that clung to his face and mouth 
like cobwebs.
"I'm all right," Tanis said when he could talk. "Where are we?" He glanced 
around. "Is everyone here? Anyone hurt?"
"We're in a draconian camp," Sturm said, helping the half-elf stand. "Tasslehoff 
and Flint are missing and Raistlin's hurt."
"Badly?" Tanis asked, alarmed by the serious expression on Sturm's face.
"Not good," the knight replied.
"Poisoned dart," Riverwind said. Tanis turned toward the Plainsman and got his 
first clear look at their prison. They were inside a cage made of bamboo. 
Draconian guards stood outside, their long, curved swords drawn and ready. 
Beyond the cage, hundreds of draconians milled around a campfire. And above the 
campfire . . .
"Yes," Sturm said, seeing Tanis's startled expression. "A dragon. More 
children's stories. Raistlin would gloat."
"Raistlin-" Tanis went over to the mage who was lying in a corner of the cage, 
covered in his cloak. The young mage was feverish and shaking with chills. 
Goldmoon knelt beside him, her hand on his forehead, stroking back the white 
hair. He was unconscious. His head tossed fitfully, and he murmured strange 
words, sometimes shouting out garbled commands. Caramon, his face nearly as pale 
as his brother's, sat beside him. Goldmoon met Tanis's questioning gaze and 
shook her head sadly, her eyes large and gleaming in the reflected firelight. 
Riverwind came over to stand beside Tanis.
"She found this in his neck," he said, carefully holding up a feathered dart 
between thumb and forefinger. He glanced at the mage without love but with a 
certain amount of pity. "Who can say what poison burns in his blood?"
"If we had the staff-" Goldmoon said.
"Right," Tanis said. "Where is it?"
"There," Sturm said, his mouth twisting wryly. He pointed.
Tanis peered past hundreds of draconians and saw the staff lying on Goldmoon's 
fur blanket in front of the black dragon. Reaching out, Tanis grasped a bar of 
the cage. "We could break out," he told Sturm. "Caramon could snap this like a 
twig."
"Tasslehoff could snap it like a twig if he were here," Sturm said. "Of course, 
then we've only got a few hundred of these creatures to take care of-not to 
mention the dragon."
"All right. Don't rub it in." Tanis sighed. "Any idea what happened to Flint and 
Tas?"
"Riverwind said he heard a splash just after Tas yelled out that we were being 
ambushed. If they were lucky, they dived off the log and escaped into the swamp. 
If not-" Sturm didn't finish.
Tanis closed his eyes to shut out the firelight. He felt tired, tired of 
fighting, tired of killing, tired of slogging through the muck. He thought 
longingly of lying down and sinking back into sleep. Instead, he opened his 
eyes, stalked over to the cage, and rattled the bars. A draconian guard turned 
around, sword raised.
"You speak Common?" Tanis asked in the very lowest, crudest form of the Common 
language used on Krynn.
"I speak Common. Apparently better than you do, elven scum," the draconian 
sneered. "What do you want?"
"One of our party is injured. We ask that you treat him. Give him an antidote to 
this poison dart."
"Poison?" The draconian peered into the cage. "Ah, yes, the magic-user." The 
creature gurgled deep in its throat, a sound obviously meant to be laughter. 
"Sick, is he? Yes, the poison acts swiftly. Can't have a magic-user around. Even 
behind bars they're deadly. But don't worry. He won't be lonely-the rest of you 
will be joining him soon enough. In fact, you should envy him. Your deaths will 
not be nearly so quick."
The draconian turned its back and said something to its partner, jerking its 
clawed thumb in the direction of the cage. Both of them croaked their gurgling 
laughter. Tanis, feeling disgust and rage welling up deep inside of him, looked 
back at Raistlin.
The mage was rapidly growing worse. Goldmoon put her hand on Raistlin's neck, 
feeling for the life beat, and then shook her head. Caramon made a moaning 
sound. Then his glance shifted to the two draconians, laughing and talking 
together outside.
"Stop-Caramon!" Tanis yelled, but it was too late.
With a roar like a wounded animal, the huge warrior leaped toward the 
draconians. Bamboo gave way before him, the shards splintering and cutting into 
his skin. Mad with the desire to kill, Caramon never noticed. Tanis jumped on 
his back as the warrior crashed past him, but Caramon shook him off as easily as 
a bear shakes off an annoying fly.
"Caramon, you fool-" Sturm grunted as he and Riverwind both threw themselves on 
the warrior. But Caramon's rage carried him on.
Whirling, one draconian raised its sword, but Caramon sent the weapon flying. 
The creature hit the ground, knocked senseless by a blow from the big man's 
fist. Within seconds, there were six draconians, bows and arrows in their hands, 
surrounding the warrior. Sturm and Riverwind wrestled Caramon to the ground. 
Sturm, sitting on him, shoved his face into the mud until he felt Caramon relax 
beneath him and heard him give a strangled sob.
At that instant, a high-pitched, shrill voice screeched through the camp. "Bring 
the warrior to me!" said the dragon.
Tanis felt the hair rise on his neck. The draconians lowered their weapons and 
turned to face the dragon, staring in astonishment and muttering among 
themselves. Riverwind and Sturm got to their feet. Caramon lay on the ground, 
choking with sobs. The draconian guards glanced at each other uneasily, while 
those standing near the dragon backed off hurriedly and formed an immense 
semicircle around it.
One of the creatures, whom Tanis supposed by the insignia on its armor to be 
some sort of captain, stalked up to a robed draconian who was staring, 
open-mouthed, at the black dragon.
"What's going on?" the captain demanded. The draconian spoke in the Common 
Tongue. Tanis, listening closely, realized they were of different species-the 
robed draconians were apparently the magic-users and the priests. Presumably, 
the two could not communicate in their own languages. The military draconian was 
clearly upset.
"Where is that Bozak priest of yours? He must tell us what to do!"
"The higher of my order is not here." The robed draconian quickly regained his 
composure. "One of them flew here and took him to confer with Lord Verminaard 
about the staff."
"But the dragon never speaks when the priest is not here."
The captain lowered his voice. "My boys don't like it. You better do something 
quickly!"
"What is this delay?" The dragons voice shrieked like a wailing wind. "Bring me 
the warrior!"
"Do as the dragon says." The robed draconian motioned quickly with a clawed 
hand. Several draconians rushed over, shoved Tanis and Riverwind and Sturm back 
into the shattered cage, and lifted the bleeding Caramon up by the arms. They 
dragged him over to stand before the dragon, his back to the blazing fire. Near 
him lay the blue crystal staff, Raistlin's staff, their weapons, and their 
packs.
Caramon raised his head to confront the monster, his eyes blurred with tears and 
blood from the many cuts the bamboo had inflicted on his face. The dragon loomed 
above him, seen dimly through the smoke rising from the bonfire.
"We mete out justice swiftly and surely, human scum," the dragon hissed. As it 
spoke, it beat its huge wings, fanning them slowly. The draconians gasped and 
began to back up, some stumbling over themselves as they hurried to get out of 
the monster's way. Obviously they knew what was coming.
Caramon stared at the creature without fear. "My brother is dying," he shouted. 
"Do what you will to me. I ask only one thing. Give me my sword so that I can 
die fighting!"
The dragon laughed shrilly; the draconians joined it, gurgling and croaking 
horribly. As the dragon's wings beat the air, it began to rock back and forth, 
seemingly preparing to leap on the warrior and devour him.
"This will be fun. Let him have his weapon," the dragon commanded. Its flapping 
wings caused a wind to whip through the camp, scattering sparks from the fire.
Caramon shoved the draconian guards aside. Wiping his hand across his eyes, he 
walked over to the pile of weapons and pulled out his sword. Then he turned to 
face the dragon, resignation and grief etched into his face. He raised his 
sword.
"We can't let him die out there by himself!" Stunn said harshly, and he took a 
step forward, prepared to break out.
Suddenly a voice came from the shadows behind them.
"Hssst . . . Tanis!"
The half-elf whirled around. "Flint!" he exclaimed, then glanced apprehensively 
at the draconian guards, but they were absorbed in watching the spectacle of 
Caramon and the dragon. Tanis hurried to the back of the bamboo cage where the 
dwarf stood.
"Get out of here!" the half-elf ordered. "There's nothing you can do. Raistlin's 
dying, and the dragon-"
"Is Tasslehoff," Flint said succinctly.
"What?" Tanis glared at the dwarf. "Make sense."
"The dragon is Tasslehoff," Flint repeated patiently.
For once Tanis was speechless. He stared at the dwarf.
"The dragon's made of wicker," the dwarf whispered hurriedly. "Tasslehoff 
sneaked behind it and looked inside. It's rigged! Anyone sitting inside the 
dragon can make the wings flap and speak through a hollow tube. I guess that's 
how the priests keep order around here. Anyway, Tasslehoff's the one flapping 
his wings and threatening to eat Caramon."
Tanis gasped. "But what do we do? There's still a hundred draconians around. 
Sooner or later they're going to realize what's going on."
"Get over to Caramon, you and Riverwind and Sturm. Grab your weapons and packs 
and the staff. I'll help Goldmoon carry Raistlin into the woods. Tasslehoff's 
got something in mind. Just be ready."
Tanis groaned.
"I don't like it any better than you do," the dwarf growled. "Trusting our lives 
to that rattle-brained kender. But-well, he is the dragon, after all."
"He certainly is," Tanis said, eyeing the dragon who was shrieking and wailing 
and flapping its wings and rocking back and forth. The draconians were staring 
at it in open-mouthed wonder. Tanis grabbed Sturm and Riverwind and huddled down 
near Goldmoon, who had not left Raistlin's side. The half-elf explained what was 
happening. Sturm looked at him as if he were as crazed as Raistlin. Riverwind 
shook his head.
"Well, have you got a better plan?" Tanis asked.
Both of them looked at the dragon, then back at Tanis, and shrugged.
"Goldmoon goes with the dwarf," Riverwind said.
She started to protest. He looked at her, his eyes expressionless, and she 
swallowed and fell silent.
"Yes," Tanis said. "Stay with Raistlin, lady, please. We'll bring the staff to 
you."
"Hurry then," she said through white lips. "He is very nearly gone."
"We'll hurry," Tanis said grimly. "I have a feeling that once things get started 
out there, we're going to be moving very fast!" He patted her hand. "Come on." 
He stood up and took a deep breath.
Riverwind's eyes were still on Goldmoon. He started to speak, then shook his 
head irritably and turned without a word to stand beside Tanis. Sturm joined 
them. The three crept up behind the draconian guards.
Caramon lifted his sword. It flashed in the firelight. The dragon went into a 
wild frenzy, and all of the draconians fell back, braying and beating their 
swords against their shields. Wind from the dragon's wings blew up ashes and 
sparks from the fire, setting some nearby bamboo huts on fire. The draconians 
did not notice, so eager were they for the kill. The dragon shrieked and howled, 
and Caramon felt his mouth go dry and his stomach muscles clench. It was the 
first time he had ever gone into battle without his brother; the thought made 
his heart throb painfully. He was about to leap forward and attack when Tanis, 
Sturm, and Riverwind appeared out of nowhere to stand by his side.
"We will not let our friend die alone!" the half-elf cried defiantly at the 
dragon. The draconians cheered wildly.
"Get out of here, Tanis!" Caramon scowled, his face flushed and streaked with 
tears. "This is my fight."
"Shut up and listen!" Tanis ordered. "Get your sword and mine, Sturm. Riverwind, 
grab your weapons and the packs and any draconian weapons you can pick up to 
replace those we lost. Caramon, pick up the two staffs."
Caramon stared at him. "What-"
"Tasslehoff's the dragon," Tanis said. "There isn't time to explain. Just do as 
I say! Get the staff and take it into the woods. Goldmoon's waiting." He laid 
his hand on the warrior's shoulder. Tanis shoved him. "Go! Raistlin's almost 
finished! You're his only chance."
This statement reached Caramon's mind. He ran to the pile of weapons and grabbed 
the blue crystal staff and Raistlin's Staff of Magius, while the draconians 
yelled. Sturm and Riverwind armed themselves, Sturm bringing Tanis his sword.
"And now, prepare to die, humans!" the dragon screamed. Its wings gave a great 
lurch and suddenly the creature was flying, hovering in midair. The draconians 
croaked and cried out in alarm, some breaking for the woods, others hurling 
themselves flat on the ground.
"Now!" yelled Tanis. "Run, Caramon!"
The big warrior broke for the woods, running swiftly toward where he could see 
Goldmoon and Flint waiting for him. A draconian appeared in front of him, but 
Caramon hurled it out of his way with a thrust of his great arm. He could hear a 
wild commotion behind him, Sturm chanting a Solamnic war cry, draconians 
yelling. Other draconians leaped at Caramon. He used the blue crystal staff as 
he had seen Goldmoon use it, swinging it in a wide arc with his huge right hand. 
It flashed blue flame and the draconians fell back.
Caramon reached the woods and found Raistlin lying at Goldmoon's feet, barely 
breathing. Goldmoon grabbed the staff from Caramon and laid it on the mage's 
inert body. Flint watched, shaking his head. "It won't work," muttered the 
dwarf. "It's used up."
"It has to work," Goldmoon said firmly. "Please," she murmured, "whoever is 
master of this staff, heal this man. Please."
Unknowing, she repeated it over and over. Caramon watched for a moment, blinking 
his eyes. Then the woods around him were lit by a gigantic burst of flame.
"Name of the Abyss!" Flint breathed. "Look at that!"
Caramon turned just in time to see the great black wicker dragon crash headlong 
into the blazing bonfire. Flaming logs flew into the air, showering sparks over 
the camp. The draconians' bamboo huts, some already ablaze, began burning 
fiercely. The wicker dragon gave a final, horrifying shriek and then it, too, 
caught fire.
"Tasslehoff!" Flint swore. "That blasted kender-he's inside there!" Before 
Caramon could stop him, the dwarf ran out into the blazing draconian camp.
"Caramon . . ." Raistlin murmured. The big warrior knelt beside his brother. 
Raistlin was still pale, but his eyes were open and clear. He sat up, weakly, 
leaning against his brother and stared out at the raging fire. "What's going 
on?"
"I'm not sure," Caramon said. "Tasslehoff turned into a dragon and after that 
things get real confused. You just rest." The warrior stared into the smoke, his 
sword drawn and ready in case any draconians came for them.
But the draconians now had little interest in the prisoners. The smaller breed, 
panic stricken, were fleeing into the forest as their great god-dragon went up 
in flames. A few of the robed draconians, bigger and apparently more intelligent 
than the other species, were trying desperately to bring order to the fearful 
chaos raging around them.
Sturm fought and slashed his way through the draconians without encountering any 
organized resistance. He had just reached the edge of the clearing, near the 
bamboo cage, when Flint passed him, running back toward the camp!
"Hey! Where-" Sturm yelled at the dwarf.
"Tas-in the dragon!" The dwarf didn't stop.
Sturm turned and saw the black wicker dragon burning with flames that shot high 
into the air. Thick smoke boiled up, blanketing the camp, the dank heavy swamp 
air preventing it from rising and drifting away. Sparks showered down as part of 
the blazing dragon exploded into the camp. Sturm ducked and batted out sparks 
that landed on his cape, then ran after the dwarf, catching up with the 
short-legged Flint easily.
"Flint," he panted, grasping the dwarf's arm. "It's no use. Nothing could live 
in that furnace! We've got to get back to the others-"
"Let go of me!" Flint roared so furiously that Sturm let go in amazement. The 
dwarf ran for the burning dragon again. Sturm heaved a sigh and ran after him, 
his eyes beginning to water in the smoke.
"Tasslehoff Burrfoot!" Flint called. "You idiotic kender! Where are you?"
There was no answer.
"Tasslehoff!" Flint screamed. "If you wreck this escape, I'll murder you. So 
help me-" Tears of frustration and grief and anger and smoke coursed down the 
dwarf's cheeks.
The heat was overwhelming. It seared Sturm's lungs, and the knight knew they 
couldn't breathe much more of this or they would perish themselves. He took hold 
of the dwarf firmly, intending to knock him out if necessary, when suddenly he 
saw movement near the edge of the blaze. He rubbed his eyes and looked closer.
The dragon lay on the ground, the head still connected to the blazing body by a 
long wicker neck. The head had not caught fire yet, but flames were starting to 
eat into the wicker neck. The head would soon be ablaze, too. Sturm saw the 
movement again.
"Flint! Look!" Sturm ran toward the head, the dwarf pounding along behind. Two 
small legs encased in bright blue pants were sticking out of the dragon's mouth, 
kicking feebly.
"Tas!" Sturm yelled. "Get out! The head's going to burn!"
"I can't! I'm stuck!" came a muffled voice.
Sturm stared at the head, frantically trying to figure out how to free the 
kender, while Flint just grabbed hold of Tas's legs and pulled.
"Ouch! Stop!" yelled Tas.
"No good," the dwarf puffed. "He's stuck fast."
The inferno crept up the dragon's neck.
Sturm drew his sword. "I may cut off his head," he muttered to Flint, "but it's 
his only chance." Estimating the size of the kender, guessing where his head 
would be, and hoping his hands weren't stretched out over his head, Sturm lifted 
his sword above the dragon's neck.
Flint closed his eyes.
The knight took a deep breath and brought his blade crash ing down on the 
dragon, severing the head from the neck. There was a cry from the kender inside 
but whether from pain or astonishment Sturm couldn't tell.
"Pull!" he yelled at the dwarf.
Flint grabbed hold of the wicker head and pulled it away from the blazing neck. 
Suddenly a tall, dark shape loomed out of the smoke. Sturm whipped around, sword 
ready, then saw it was Riverwind.
"What are yo-" The Plainsman stared at the dragon's head. Perhaps Flint and 
Sturm had gone mad.
"The kender's stuck in there!" Sturm yelled. "We can't take the head apart out 
here, surrounded by draconians! We've got to-"
His words were lost in a roar of flame, but Riverwind finally saw the blue legs 
sticking out of the dragon's mouth. He grabbed hold of one side of the dragon's 
head, thrusting his hands in one of the eyesockets. Sturm got hold of the other, 
and together they lifted the head-kender inside-and began running through the 
camp. Those few draconians they encountered took one look at the terrifying 
apparition and fled.
"C'mon, Raist," Caramon said solicitously, his arm around his brother's 
shoulder. "You've got to try and stand. We have to be ready to move out of here. 
How do you feel?"
"How do I ever feel?" whispered Raistlin bitterly. "Help me up. There! Now leave 
me in peace for a moment." He leaned against a tree, shivering but standing.
"Sure, Raist," Caramon said, hurt, backing off. Goldmoon glanced at Raistlin in 
disgust, remembering Caramon's grief when he thought his brother was dying. She 
turned away to watch for the others, staring through the gathering smoke.
Tanis appeared first, running so fast he crashed into Caramon. The big warrior 
caught him in his huge arms, breaking the half-elf's forward momentum and 
keeping him on his feet.
"Thanks!" Tanis gasped. He leaned over, hands on his knees, to catch his breath. 
"Where are the others?"
"Weren't they with you?" Caramon frowned.
"We got separated." Tanis drew in huge gulps of air, then coughed as the smoke 
flew down his lungs.
"SuTorakh!" interrupted Goldmoon in an awed voice. Tanis and Caramon both spun 
around in alarm, staring out into the smoke-filled camp to see a grotesque sight 
emerging from the swirling smoke. A dragon's head with a forked blue tongue was 
lunging at them. Tanis blinked in disbelief, then he heard a sound behind him 
that nearly made him leap into a tree in panic. He whirled around, heart in his 
throat, sword in his hand.
Raistlin was laughing.
Tanis had never heard the mage laugh before-even when Raistlin was a child-and 
he hoped he would never hear it again. It was weird, shrill, mocking laughter. 
Caramon stared at his brother in amazement, Goldmoon in horror. Finally the 
sound of Raistlin's laughter died until the mage was laughing silently, his 
golden eyes reflecting the glow of the draconian camp going up in flames.
Tanis shuddered and turned back around to see that in fact the dragon's head was 
carried by Sturm and Riverwind. Flint raced along in front, a draconian helm on 
his head. Tanis ran forward to meet them.
"What in the name of-"
"The kender's stuck in here!" Sturm said. He and Riverwind dropped the head to 
the ground, both of them breathing heavily. "We've got to get him out." Sturm 
eyed the laughing Raistlin warily. "What's the matter with him? Still poisoned?"
"No, he's better," Tanis said, examining the dragon's head.
"A pity," Sturm muttered as he knelt beside the half-elf.
"Tas, are you -all right?" Tanis called out, lifting the huge mouth to see 
inside.
"I think Sturm chopped off my hair!" the kender wailed.
"Lucky it wasn't your head!" Flint snorted.
"What's holding him?" Riverwind leaned down to peer inside the dragon's mouth.
"I'm not sure," Tanis said, swearing softly. "I can't see in all this blasted 
smoke." He stood up, sighing in frustration. "And we've got to get out of here! 
The draconians will get organized soon. Caramon, come here. See if you can rip 
off the top."
The big warrior came over to stand in front of the wicker dragon's head. Bracing 
himself, he got hold of the two eyesockets, closed his eyes, took a deep breath, 
then grunted and heaved. For a minute nothing happened. Tanis watched the 
muscles bulge on the big man's arms, saw his thigh muscles absorb the strain. 
Blood rushed to Caramon's face. Then there was the ripping and snapping sound of 
wood splintering. The top of the dragons head gave way with a sharp crack. 
Caramon staggered backwards as the top half of the head suddenly came off in his 
hands.
Tanis reached in, grabbed Tas's hand, and jerked him free. "Are you all right?" 
he asked. The kender seemed wobbly on his feet, but his grin was wide as ever.
"I'm fine," Tas said brightly. "Just a little singed." Then his face darkened. 
"Tanis," he said, his face crinkling with unusual worry. He felt at his long 
topknot. "My hair?"
"All there," Tanis said, smiling.
Tas breathed a sigh of relief. Then he began to talk. "Tanis, it was the most 
wonderful thing -flying like that. And the look on Caramon's face-"
"The story will have to wait," Tanis said firmly. "We've got to get out of here. 
Caramon? Can you and your brother make it all right?"
"Yeah, go on," Caramon said.
Raistlin stumbled forward, accepting the support of his brother's strong arm. 
The mage glanced behind at the sundered dragon's head and he wheezed, his 
shoulders shaking in silent, grim amusement.
 
 
15
Escape, The well.
Death on black wings.
 
Smoke from the burning draconian camp hung over the black swamplands, shielding 
the companions from the eyes of the strange, evil creatures. The smoke floated 
wraithlike through the swamps, drifting across the silver moon and obscuring the 
stars. The companions dared not risk a light-even the light from Raistlin's 
staff-for they could hear horns blowing all around them as the draconian leaders 
tried to reestablish order.
Riverwind led them. Although Tanis had always prided himself on his own woodland 
skills, he completely lost all sense direction in the black misty mire. An 
occasional fleeting glimpse of the stars, whenever the smoke lifted, showed him 
that they were bearing north.
They hadn't gone far when Riverwind missed a step and plunged knee-deep into 
muck. After Tanis and Caramon dragged the Plainsman out of the water, Tasslehoff 
crept ahead, testing the ground with his hoopak staff. It sank every time.
"We have no choice but to wade," Riverwind said grimly.
Choosing a path where the water seemed shallower, the company left firm ground 
and splashed into the muck. At first it was only ankle deep, then they sank to 
their knees. Soon they sank deeper still; Tanis was forced to carry Tasslehoff, 
the giggling kender grasping him around the neck. Flint steadfastly refused all 
offers of help, even when the tip of his beard got wet. Then he vanished. 
Caramon, following him, fished the dwarf out of the water and slung him over his 
shoulder like a wet sack, the dwarf too tired and frightened to grumble. 
Raistlin staggered, coughing, through the water, his robes dragging him down. 
Weary and still sick from the poison, the mage finally collapsed. Sturm grabbed 
hold of him and half-dragged,
half-carried the mage through the swamp.
After an hour of floundering in the icy water, they finally reached firm ground 
and sank down to rest, shivering with the cold.
The trees began to creak and groan, their branches bending as a sharp wind 
sprang up from the north. The wind blew the mists into wispy rags. Raistlin, 
lying on the ground, looked up. The mage caught his breath. He sat up, alarmed.
"Storm clouds." He choked, coughing, and fought to speak. "They come from the 
north. We have no time. No time! We must reach Xak Tsaroth. Hurry! Before the 
moon sets!"
Everyone looked up. A gathering darkness was moving out of the north, swallowing 
up the stars. Tanis could feel the same sense of urgency that was driving the 
mage. Wearily, he rose to his feet. Without a word, the rest of the group rose 
and stumbled forward, Riverwind taking the lead. But dark swamp water blocked 
their path once more.
"Not again!" Flint moaned.
"No, we do not have to wade again. Come look," Riverwind said. He led the way to 
the water's edge. There, amid many other ruins protruding from the dank ground, 
lay an obelisk that had either fallen or been pushed over to form a bridge 
across to the other bank of the swamp.
"I'll go first," Tas volunteered, hopping energetically onto the long stone. 
"Hey, there's writing on this thing. Runes of some sort."
"I must see!" Raistlin whispered, hurrying over. He spoke his word of command, 
"Shirak',' and the crystal on the tip of his staff burst into light.
"Hurry!" Sturm growled. "You've just told everything within a twenty-mile radius 
we're here."
But Raistlin would not be rushed. He held the light over the spidery runes, 
studying them intently. Tanis and the others climbed onto the obelisk and joined 
the mage.
The kender bent down, tracing the runes with his small hand. "What does it say, 
Raistlin? Can you read it? The language seems very old."
"It is old," the mage whispered. "It dates from before the Cataclysm. The runes 
say, 'The Great City of Xak Tsaroth, whose beauty Surrounds you, speaks to the 
good of its people and their generous deeds. The gods reward us in the grace of 
our home.' "
"How awful!" Goldmoon shuddered, looking at the ruin and desolation around her.
"The gods rewarded them indeed," Raistlin said, his lips parting in a cynical 
smile. No one spoke. Then Raistlin whispered,
"Durakc" and extinguished the light. Suddenly the night seemed much blacker. "We 
must keep going," the mage said. "Surely there is more than a fallen monument to 
mark what this place once stood for."
They crossed the obelisk into thick jungle. At first there seemed to be no 
trail, then Riverwind, searching diligently, found a trail cut through the vines 
and the trees. He bent down to study it. His face was grim when he rose.
"Draconians?" Tanis asked.
"Yes," he said heavily. "The tracks of many clawed feet. And they lead north, 
straight to the city."
Tanis asked in an undertone, "Is this the broken city-where you were given the 
staff?"
"And where death had black wings," Riverwind added. He closed his eyes, wiping 
his hand over his face. Then he drew a deep, ragged breath. "I don't know. I 
can't remember-but I am afraid without knowing why."
Tanis put his hand on Riverwind's arm. "The elves have a saying, 'Only the dead 
are without fear.' "
Riverwind startled him by suddenly clasping the half-elf's hand with his. "I 
have never known an elf," the Plainsman said. "My people distrust them, saying 
that the elves have no care for Krynn or for humans. I think my people may have 
been mistaken. I am glad I met you, Tanis of Qualinost. I count you as a 
friend."
Tanis knew enough of Plains lore to realize that, with this statement, Riverwind 
had declared himself willing to sacrifice everything for the half-elf-even his 
life. A vow of friendship was a solemn vow among the Plainsmen. "You are my 
friend, too, Riverwind," Tanis said simply. "You and Goldmoon both are my 
friends."
Riverwind turned his eyes to Goldmoon who stood near them, leaning on her staff, 
her eyes closed, her face drawn with pain and exhaustion. Riverwind's face 
softened with compassion as he looked at her. Then it hardened, pride drawing 
the stem mask over it again.
"Xak Tsaroth is not far off," he said coolly. "And these tracks are old." He led 
the way into the jungle. After only a short walk, the northern trail suddenly 
changed to cobblestones.
"A street!" exclaimed Tasslehoff.
"The outskirts of Xak Tsaroth!" Raistlin breathed.
"About time!" Flint stared all around in disgust. "What a mess! If the greatest 
gift ever given to man is here, it must be well hidden!"
Tanis agreed. He had never seen a more dismal place. As they walked, the broad 
street took them into an open paved courtyard. To the east stood four tall, 
free-standing columns that supported nothing; the building lay in ruins around 
them. A huge unbroken circular stone wall rose about four feet above the ground. 
Caramon, going over to inspect it, announced that it was a well.
"Deep at that," he said. He leaned over and peered down into it. "Smells bad, 
too."
North of the well stood what appeared to be the only building to have escaped 
the destruction of the Cataclysm. It was finely constructed of pure white stone, 
supported by tall, slender columns. Large golden double doors gleamed in the 
moonlight.
"That was a temple to the ancient gods," Raistlin said, more to himself than 
anyone else. But Goldmoon, standing near him, heard his soft whisper.
"A temple?" she repeated, staring at the building. "How beautiful." She walked 
toward it, strangely fascinated.
Tanis and the rest searched the grounds and found no other buildings intact. 
Fluted columns lay on the ground, their broken pieces aligned to show their 
former beauty. Statues lay broken and, in some cases, grotesquely defaced. 
Everything was old, so old it made even the dwarf feel young.
Flint sat down on a column. "Well, we're here." He blinked at Raistlin and 
yawned. "What now, mage?"
Raistlin's thin lips parted, but before he could reply, Tasslehoff yelled, 
"Draconian!"
Everyone spun around, weapons in their hands. A draconian, ready to move, was 
glaring at them from the edge of the well.
"Stop it!" Tani's shouted. "It will alert others!"
But before anyone could reach it, the draconian spread its wings and flew into 
the well. Raistlin, his golden eyes flaring in the moonlight, ran to the well 
and peered over the edge. Raising his hand as if to cast a spell, he hesitated, 
then dropped his hand limply to his side. "I can't," he said. "I can't think. I 
can't concentrate. I must sleep!"
"We're all tired," Tanis said wearily. "If something's down there, it warned it. 
There's nothing we can do now. We've got to rest."
"It has gone to warn something," Raistlin whispered. He huddled in his cloak and 
stared around, his eyes wide. "Can't you feel it? Any of you? Half-Elf? Evil 
about to waken and come forth."
Silence fell.
Then Tasslehoff climbed up on the stone wall and peered down. "Look! The 
draconian is floating down, just like a leaf. His wings don't flap-"
"Be quiet!" Tanis snapped.
Tasslehoff glanced at the half-elf in surprise-Tanis's voice sounded strained 
and unnatural. The half-elf was staring at the well, his hands clenching 
nervously. Everything was still. Too still. The storm clouds massed to the 
north, but there was no wind. Not a branch creaked, not a leaf stirred. The 
silver moon and the red cast twin shadows that made things seen from the corner 
of the eye unreal and distorted.
Then, slowly, Raistlin backed away from the well, raising his hands before him 
as if to ward off some dreadful danger.
"I feel it too." Tanis swallowed. "What is it?"
"Yes, what is it?" Tasslehoff, leaning over, stared eagerly into the well. It 
looked as deep and dark as the mage's hourglass eye.
"Get him away from there!" Raistlin cried.
Tanis, infected by the mage's fear and his own growing sense that something was 
terribly wrong, started to run for Tas. Even as he began to move, though, he 
felt the ground shake beneath his feet. The kender gave a startled cry as the 
ancient stone wall of the well cracked and gave way beneath him. Tas felt 
himself sliding into the terrible blackness below him. He scrabbled frantically 
with his hands and feet, trying to clutch the crumbling rocks. Tanis lunged 
desperately, but he was too far away.
Riverwind had started moving when he heard Raistlin's cry, and the tall man's 
long, swift strides carried him quickly to the well. Catching hold of Tas by his 
collar, the Plainsman plucked him from the wall just as the stones and mortar 
tumbled down into the blackness below.
The ground trembled again. Tanis tried to force his numb mind to figure out what 
was happening. Then a blast of cold air burst from the well. The wind swept dirt 
and leaves from the courtyard into the air, stinging his face and eyes.
"Run!" Tanis tried to yell, but he choked on the foul stench erupting from the 
well.
The columns left standing after the Cataclysm began to shake. The companions 
stared fearfully at the well. Then Riverwind tore his gaze away. "Goldmoon . . 
." he said, looking around. He dropped Tas to the ground. "Goldmoon!" He stopped 
as a high-pitched shriek rose from the depths of the well. The sound was so loud 
and shrill that it pierced the head.
Riverwind searched frantically for Goldmoon, calling her name.
Tanis was stunned by the noise. Unable to move, he saw Sturm, hand on his sword, 
slowly back away from the well. He saw Raistlin-the mage's ghastly face 
glistening metallic yellow, his golden eyes red in the red moon's light-scream 
something Tanis couldn't hear. He saw Tasslehoff staring at the well in 
wide-eyed wonder. Sturm ran across the courtyard, scooped up the kender under 
one arm, and ran on to the trees. Caramon ran to his exhausted brother, caught 
him up, and headed for cover. Tanis knew some monstrous evil was coming up out 
of the well, but he could not move. The words "run, fool, run" screamed in his 
brain. Riverwind, too, stayed near the well, fighting the fear that was growing 
within him; he couldn't find Goldmoon! Distracted by rescuing the kender from 
tumbling into the well, he had not seen Goldmoon approach the unbroken temple. 
He looked around wildly, struggling to keep his balance as the ground shook 
beneath his feet. The high-pitched shrieking noise, the throbbing and trembling 
of the ground, brought back hideous, nightmarish memories. "Death on black 
wings." He began to sweat and shake, then forced his mind to concentrate on 
Goldmoon. She needed him; he knew-and he alone knew-that her show of strength 
only masked her fear, doubt, uncertainty. She would be terribly afraid, and he 
had to find her.
As the stones of the well began to slide, Riverwind moved away and caught sight 
of Tanis. The half-elf was shouting and pointing past Riverwind toward the 
temple. Riverwind knew Tanis was saying something, but he couldn't hear above 
the shrieking sound. Then he knew! Goldmoon! Riverwind turned to go to her, but 
he lost his balance and fell to his knees. He saw Tanis start to run toward him.
Then the horror burst from the well-the horror of his fevered nightmares. 
Riverwind closed his eyes and saw no more.
It was a dragon.
Tanis, in those first few moments when the blood seemed to drain from his body, 
leaving him limp and lifeless, looked at the dragon as it burst forth from the 
well and thought, "How beautiful . . . how beautiful. . . ."
Sleek and black, the dragon rose, her glistening wings folded close to her 
sides, her scales gleaming. Her eyes glowed red-black, the color of molten rock. 
Her mouth opened in a snarl, teeth flashing white and wicked. Her long, red 
tongue curled as she breathed the night air. Clear of the well's confines, the 
dragon spread her wings, blotting out stars, obliterating moon-light. Each wing 
was tipped with a pure, white claw that shone blood-red in the light of 
Lunitari.
Fear such as Tanis had never imagined shriveled his stomach. His heart throbbed 
painfully; he couldn't catch his breath. He could only stare in horror and awe 
and marvel at the creature's deadly beauty. The dragon circled higher and higher 
into the night sky. Then, just as Tanis felt the paralyzing fear start to 
recede, just as he began to fumble for his bow and arrows, the dragon spoke.
One word she said-a word in the language of magic-and a thick, terrible darkness 
fell from the sky, blinding them all. Tanis instantly lost all grasp on where he 
was. He only knew there was a dragon above him about to attack. He was powerless 
to defend himself. All he could do was crouch down, crawl among the rubble, and 
try desperately to hide.
Deprived of his sense of sight, the half-elf concentrated on his sense of 
hearing. The shrieking noise had stopped as the darkness fell. Tanis could hear 
the slow, gentle flap of the dragon's leathery wings and knew it was circling 
above them, rising gradually. Then he couldn't hear even the flapping anymore; 
the wings had quit beating. He visualized a great, black bird of prey, hovering 
alone, waiting.
Then there was a very gentle rustling sound, the sound of leaves shivering as 
the wind rises before a storm. The sound grew louder and louder until it was the 
rushing of wind when the storm hits, and then it was the shrieking of the 
hurricane. Tanis pressed his body close against the crumbled well and covered 
his head with his arms.
The dragon was attacking.
She could not see through the darkness she had cast, but Khisanth knew that the 
intruders were still in the courtyard below. Her minions, the draconians, had 
warned her that a group walked the land, carrying the blue crystal staff. Lord 
Verminaard wanted that staff, wanted it kept safe with her, never to be seen in 
human lands. But she had lost it, and Lord Verminaard had not been pleased. She 
had to get it back. Therefore, Khisanth had waited an instant before casting her 
darkness spell, studying the intruders carefully, searching for the staff. 
Unaware that already it had passed beyond her sight, she was pleased. She had 
only to destroy.
The attacking dragon dropped from the sky, her leathery wings curving back like 
the blade of a black dagger. She dove straight for the well, where she had seen 
the intruders running for their lives. Knowing that they would be paralyzed by 
dragonfear, Khisanth was certain she could kill them all with one pass. She 
opened her fanged mouth.
Tanis heard the dragon coming nearer. The great rushing sound grew louder and 
louder, then stopped for an instant. He could hear huge tendons creaking, 
lifting and spreading giant wings. Then he heard a great gasping sound as of air 
being drawn into a gaping throat, then a strange sound that reminded him of 
steam escaping from a boiling kettle. Something liquid splashed near him. He 
could hear rocks splitting and cracking and bubbling. Drops of the liquid 
splashed on his hand, and he gasped as a searing pain penetrated his being.
Then Tanis heard a scream. It was a deep-voiced scream, a man's 
scream-Riverwind. So terrible, so agonized was the scream that Tanis dug his 
fingernails into his palms to keep from adding his own voice to that horrible 
wail and revealing himself to the dragon. The screaming seemed to go on and on 
and then it died into a moan. Tanis felt the rush of a large body swoosh past 
him in the darkness. The stones he pressed his body against shook. Then the 
tremor of the dragon's passage sank lower and lower into the depths of the well. 
Finally the ground was still.
There was silence.
Tanis drew a painful breath and opened his eyes. The darkness was gone. The 
stars shone; the moons glowed in the sky. For a moment the half-elf could do 
nothing but breathe and breathe again, trying to calm his shaking body. Then he 
was on his feet, running toward a dark form lying in the stone courtyard.
Tanis was the first to reach the Plainsman's body. He took one look, then choked 
and turned away.
What remained of Riverwind no longer resembled anything human. The man's flesh 
had been seared from his body. The white of bone was clearly visible where skin 
and muscle had melted from his arms. His eyes ran like jelly down the fleshless, 
cadaverous cheeks. His mouth gaped open in a silent scream. His ribcage lay 
exposed, hunks of flesh and charred cloth clinging to the bones. But-most 
horrible-the flesh on his torso had been burned away, leaving the organs 
exposed, pulsing red in the garish red moonlight.
Tanis sank down, vomiting. The half-elf had seen men die on his sword. He had 
seen them hacked to pieces by trolls. But this . . . this was horribly 
different, and Tanis knew the memory of this would haunt him forever. A strong 
arm gripped him by the shoulders, offering silent comfort and sympathy and 
understanding. The nausea passed. Tanis sat back and breathed. He wiped his 
mouth and nose, then tried to force himself to swallow, gagging painfully.
"You all right?" Caramon asked with concern.
Tanis nodded, unable to speak. Then he turned at the sound of Stunn's voice.
"May the true gods have mercy! Tanis, he's still alive! I saw his hand move!" 
Sturm choked. He could say no more.
Tanis rose to his feet and walked shakily toward the body. One of the charred 
and blackened hands had risen from the stones, plucking horribly at the air.
"End it!" Tanis said hoarsely, his throat raw from bile. "End it! Sturm-"
The knight had already drawn his sword. Kissing the hilt, he raised the blade to 
the sky and stood before Riverwind's body. He closed his eyes and mentally 
withdrew into an old world where death in battle had been glorious and fine. 
Slowly and solemnly, he began to recite the ancient Solamnic Death Chant. As he 
spoke the words that laid hold of the warrior's soul and transported it to 
realms of peace beyond, he reversed the blade of the sword and held it poised 
above Riverwind's chest.
 
"Return this man to Huma's breast
Beyond the wild, impartial skies;
Grant to him a warrior's rest
And set the last spark of his eyes
Free from the smothering clouds of wars,
Upon the torches of the stars.
Let the last surge of his breath
Take refuge in the cradling air
Above the dreams of ravens, where
Only the hawk remembers death.
Then let his shade to Huma rise,
Beyond the wild, impartial skies."
 
The knight's voice sank.
Tanis felt the peace of the gods wash over him like cool, cleansing water, 
easing his grief and submerging the horror. Caramon, beside him, wept silently. 
As they watched, moon-light flashed on the sword blade.
Then a clear voice spoke. "Stop. Bring him to me."
Both Tanis and Caramon sprang up to stand in front of the man's tortured body, 
knowing that Goldmoon must be spared this hideous sight. Sturm, lost in 
tradition, came back to reality with a start and reversed his killing stroke. 
Goldmoon stood, a tall, slender shadow silhouetted against the golden, moonlit 
doors of the temple. Tanis started to speak, but he felt suddenly the cold hand 
of the mage grip his arm. Shivering, he jerked away from Raistlin's touch.
"Do as she says," the mage hissed. "Carry him to her."
Tanis's face contorted with fury at the sight of Raistlin's expressionless face, 
uncaring eyes.
"Take him to her," Raistlin said coldly. "It is not for us to choose death for 
this man. That is for the gods."
 
 
16
A bitter choice.
The greatest gift.
 
Tanis stared at Raistlin. Not the quiver of an eyelid betrayed his feelings-if 
the mage had any feelings. Their eyes met and, as always, Tanis felt that the 
mage saw more than was visible to him. Suddenly Tanis hated Raistlin, hated him 
with a passion that shocked the half-elf, hated him for not feeling this pain, 
hated him and envied him at the same time.
"We must do something!" Sturm said harshly. "He's not dead and the dragon may 
return!"
"Very well," Tanis said, his voice catching in his throat. Wrap him in a 
blanket. . . . But give me a moment alone with Goldmoon."
The half-elf walked slowly across the courtyard. His footsteps echoed in the 
stillness of the night as he climbed marble steps to a wide porch where Goldmoon 
stood in front of the shining golden doors. Glancing behind him, Tanis could see 
his friends wrapping blankets from their packs around tree limbs to make a 
battlefield stretcher. The man's body was nothing more than a dark, shapeless 
mass in the moonlight.
"Bring him to me, Tanis," Goldmoon repeated as the half-elf came up to her. He 
took hold of her hand.
"Goldmoon," Tanis said, "Riverwind is horribly injured. He is dying. There is 
nothing you can do-not even the staff-"
"Hush, Tanis," Goldmoon said gently.
The half-elf fell silent, seeing her clearly for the first time. In 
astonishment, he realized that the Plainswoman was tranquil, calm, uplifted. Her 
face in the moonlight was the face of the sailor who has fought the stormy seas 
in his fragile boat and drifted at last into peaceful waters.
"Come inside the temple, my friend," Goldmoon said, her beautiful eyes looking 
intently into Tanis'. "Come inside and bring Riverwind to me."
Goldmoon had not heard the approach of the dragon, had not seen its attack on 
Riverwind. When they entered the broken courtyard of Xak Tsaroth, Goldmoon had 
felt a strange and powerful force drawing her into the temple. She walked across 
the rubble and up the stairs, oblivious to everything but the golden doors 
shimmering in the silver-red moonlight. She approached them and stood before 
them for a moment. Then she became aware of the commotion behind her and heard 
Riverwind calling her name. "Goldmoon . . ." She paused, unwilling to leave 
Riverwind and her friends, knowing a terrible evil was rising from the well.
"Come inside, child," a gentle voice called to her.
Goldmoon lifted her head and stared at the doors. Tears came to her eyes. The 
voice was her mother's. Tearsong, priestess of Que-shu, had died long ago, when 
Goldmoon was very young.
"Tearsong?" Goldmoon choked. "Mother-"
"The years have been many and sad for you, my daughter"-her mother's voice was 
not heard so much as felt in her heart-"and I fear your burden will not soon 
ease. Indeed, if you continue on you will leave this darkness only to enter a 
deeper darkness. Truth will light your way, my daughter, though you may find its 
light shines dimly in the vast and terrible night ahead. Still, without the 
truth, all will perish and be lost. Come here inside the temple with me, 
daughter. You will find what you seek."
"But my friends, Riverwind." Goldmoon looked back at the well and saw Riverwind 
stumble on the shaking cobblestones. "They cannot fight this evil. They will die 
without me. The staff could help! I cannot leave!" She started to turn back as 
the darkness fell.
"I can't see them! . . . Riverwind! . . . Mother, help me," she cried in agony.
But there was no answer. This isn't fair! Goldmoon screamed silently, clenching 
her fists. We never wanted this! We only wanted to love each other, and now-now 
we may lose that! We have sacrificed so much and none of it has made any 
difference. I am thirty years old, mother! Thirty and childless. They have taken 
my youth, they have taken my people. And I have nothing to show in return. 
Nothing -except this! She shook the staff. And now I am being asked once again 
to give still more.
Her anger calmed. Riverwind-had he been angry all those long years he searched 
for answers? All he had found was this staff, and it brought only more 
questions. No, he hadn't been angry, she thought. His faith is strong. I am the 
weak one. Riverwind was willing to die for his faith. It seems I must be willing 
to live-even if it means living without him.
Goldmoon leaned her head against the golden doors, their metal surface cool to 
her skin. Reluctantly, she made her bitter decision. I will go forward, 
mother-though if Riverwind dies, my heart dies too. I ask only one thing; If he 
dies, let him know, somehow, that I will continue his search.
Leaning upon her staff, the Chieftain of the Que-shu pushed open the golden 
doors and entered the temple. The doors shut behind her at the precise moment 
the black dragon burst from the well.
Goldmoon stepped inside soft, enfolding darkness. She could see nothing at 
first, but a memory of being held very close in her mother's warm embrace played 
through her mind. A pale light began to shine around her. Goldmoon saw she was 
under a vast dome that rose high above an intricately inlaid tile floor. Beneath 
the dome, in the center of the room, stood a marble statue of singular grace and 
beauty. The light in the room emanated from this statue. Goldmoon, entranced, 
moved toward it. The statue was of a woman in flowing robes. Her marble face 
bore an expression of radiant hope, tempered with sadness. A strange amulet hung 
around her neck.
"This is Mishakal, goddess of healing, whom I serve," said her mother's voice. 
"Listen to her words, my daughter."
Goldmoon stood directly in front of the statue, marveling at its beauty. But it 
seemed unfinished, incomplete. Part of the statue was missing, Goldmoon 
realized. The marble woman's hands were curved, as if they had been holding a 
long slender pole, but the hands were empty. Without conscious thought, with 
only the need to complete such beauty, Goldmoon slid her staff into the marble 
hands.
It began to gleam with a soft blue light. Goldmoon, startled, backed away. The 
staff's light grew into a blinding radiance. Goldmoon shielded her eyes and fell 
to her knees. A great and loving power filled her heart. She bitterly regretted 
her anger.
"Do not be ashamed of your questioning, beloved disciple. It was your 
questioning that led you to us, and it is your anger that will sustain you 
through the many trials ahead. You come seeking the truth and you shall receive 
it.
"The gods have not turned away from man-it is man who turned away from the true 
gods. Krynn is about to face its greatest trial. Men will need the truth more 
than ever. You, my disciple, must return the truth and power of the true gods to 
man. It is time to restore the balance of the universe. Evil now has tipped the 
scales. For, as the gods of good have returned to man, so have the gods of 
evil-constantly striving for men's souls. The Queen of Darkness has returned, 
seeking that which will allow her to walk freely in this land once more. 
Dragons, once banished to the nether regions, walk the land."
Dragons, thought Goldmoon dreamily. She found it difficult to concentrate and 
grasp the words that flooded her mind. It would not be until later that she 
would fully comprehend the message. Then she would remember the words forever.
"To gain the power to defeat them, you will need the truth of the gods-this is 
the greatest gift of which you were told. Below this temple, in the ruins 
haunted by the glories of ages past, rest the Disks of Mishakal; circular disks 
made of gleaming platinum. Find the Disks and you can call upon my power, for I 
am Mishakal, goddess of healing.
"Your way will not be easy. The gods of evil know and fear the great power of 
the truth. The ancient and powerful black dragon, Khisanth, known to men as 
Onyx, guards the Disks. Her lair is in the ruined city of Xak Tsaroth below us. 
Danger lies ahead of you if you choose to try and recover the Disks. Therefore I 
bless this staff. Present it boldly, never wavering, and you shall prevail."
The voice faded. It was then Goldmoon heard Riverwind's death cry.
Tanis entered the temple and felt as if he had walked backward into memory. The 
sun was shining through the trees in Qualinost. He and Laurana and her brother, 
Gilthanas, were lying on the riverbank, laughing and sharing dreams after some 
childish game. Happy childhood days had been few for Tanis- the half-elf learned 
early that he was different from the others. But that day had been a day of 
golden sunshine and warm friendship. The remembered peace washed over him, 
easing his grief and horror.
He turned to Goldmoon, standing silently beside him. "What is this place?"
"That is a story whose telling must wait," Goldmoon answered. With a light hand 
on Tanis's arm, she drew him across the shimmering tile floor until they both 
stood before the shining marble statue of Mishakal. The blue crystal staff cast 
a brilliant glow throughout the chamber.
But even as Tanis's lips parted in wonder, a shadow darkened the room. He and 
Goldmoon turned toward the door. Caramon and Sturm entered, bearing the body of 
Riverwind between them on the makeshift litter. Flint and Tasslehoff -the dwarf 
looking old and weary, the kender unusually subdued- stood on either side of the 
litter, an odd sort of honor guard. The somber procession moved slowly inside. 
Behind them came Raistlin, his hood pulled over his head, his hands folded in 
his robes-the spectre of death itself.
They moved across the marble floor, intent on the burden they bore, and came to 
a halt before Tanis and Goldmoon. Tanis, looking down at the body at Goldmoon's 
feet, shut his eyes. Blood had soaked through the thick blanket, spreading in 
great dark splotches across the fabric.
"Remove the blanket," Goldmoon commanded. Caramon looked at Tanis pleadingly.
"Goldmoon-" Tanis began gently.
Suddenly, before anyone could stop him, Raistlin bent down and tore the 
blood-stained blanket from the body.
Goldmoon gave a strangled gasp at the sight of Riverwind's tortured body, 
turning so pale that Tanis reached out a steadying hand, fearing she might 
faint. But Goldmoon was the daughter of a strong, proud people. She swallowed, 
drew a deep, shuddering breath. Then she turned and walked up to the marble 
statue. She lifted the blue crystal staff carefully from the goddess's hands, 
then she returned to kneel beside Riverwind's body.
"Kan-tokah," she said softly. "My beloved." Reaching out a shaking hand, she 
touched the dying Plainsman's forehead. The sightless face moved toward her as 
if he heard. One of the blackened hands twitched feebly, as if he would touch 
her. Then he gave a great shudder and lay perfectly still. Tears streamed 
unheeded down Goldmoon's cheeks as she lay the staff across Riverwind's body. 
Soft blue light filled the chamber. Everyone the light touched felt rested and 
refreshed. The pain and exhaustion from the day's toil left their bodies. The 
horror of the dragon's attack lifted from their minds, as the sun burns through 
fog. Then the light of the staff dimmed and faded. Night settled over the 
temple, lit once more only by the light emanating from the marble statue.
Tanis blinked, trying once more to reaccustom his eyes to the dark. Then he 
heard a deep voice.
"Kan-tokah neh sirakan."
He heard Goldmoon cry out in joy. Tanis looked down at what should have been 
Riverwind's corpse. Instead, he saw the Plainsman sit up, holding out his arms 
for Goldmoon. She clung to him, laughing and crying at the same time.
"And so," Goldmoon told them, coming to the end of her story, "we must find a 
way down into the ruined city that lies somewhere below the temple, and we must 
remove the Disks from the dragon's lair."
They were eating a frugal dinner, sitting on the floor in the main chamber of 
the temple. A quick inspection of the building revealed that it was empty, 
although Caramon told of finding draconian tracks on the staircase, as well as 
the tracks of some other creature the warrior couldn't identify.
It was not a large building. Two worship rooms were located on opposite sides of 
the hallway that led to the main chamber where the statue stood. Two circular 
rooms branched off the main chamber to the north and south. They were decorated 
with frescoes that were now covered with fungus and faded beyond recognition. 
Two sets of golden double doors led to the east. Caramon reported finding a 
staircase there that led down into the wrecked city below. The faint sound of 
surf could be heard, reminding them that they were perched on top of a great 
cliff, overlooking Newsea.
The companions sat, each preoccupied with his own thoughts, trying to assimilate 
the news Goldmoon had given them. Tasslehoff, however, continued to poke around 
the rooms, peering into dark corners. Finding little of interest, the kender 
grew bored and returned to the group, holding an old helmet in his hand. It was 
too big for him; kenderfolk never wore helmets anyway, considering them 
bothersome and restrictive. He tossed it to the dwarf.
"What's this?" Flint asked suspiciously, holding it up to the light cast by 
Raistlin's staff. It was a helm of ancient design, well crafted by a skilled 
metalsmith. Undoubtedly a dwarf, Flint decided, rubbing his hands over it 
lovingly. A long tail of animal hair decorated the top. Flint tossed the 
draconian helm he had been wearing to the floor. Then he put the new-found helm 
on his head. It fit perfectly. Smiling, he took it off, once more admiring the 
workmanship, Tas watched him with amusement.
'That's horsehair," he said, pointing to the tassel.
"No, it's not!" the dwarf protested, frowning. He sniffed at it, wrinkling his 
nose. Failing to sneeze, he glanced at Tanis in triumph. "It's hair from the 
mane of a griffon."
Caramon guffawed. "Griffon!" He snorted. "There's about as many griffons on 
Krynn as there are-"
"Dragons," interjected Raistlin smoothly.
The conversation died abruptly.
Sturm cleared his throat. "We'd better get some sleep," he said. "I'll take 
first watch."
"No one need keep watch this night," Goldmoon said softly.
She sat close to Riverwind. The tall Plainsman had not spoken much since his 
brush with death. He had stared for a long time at the statue of Mishakal, 
recognizing the woman in blue light who had given him the staff, but he refused 
to answer any questions or discuss it.
"We are safe here," Goldmoon affirmed, glancing at the statue.
Caramon raised his eyebrows. Sturm frowned and stroked his moustaches. Both men 
were too polite to question Goldmoon's faith, but Tanis knew that neither 
warrior would feel safe if watches weren't set. Yet there weren't many hours 
left until dawn and they all needed rest. Raistlin was already asleep, wrapped 
in his robes in a dark corner of the chamber.
"I think Goldmoon is right," Tasslehoff said. "Let's trust these old gods, since 
it seems we have found them."
"The elves never lost them; neither did the dwarves," Flint protested, scowling. 
"I don't understand any of this! Reorx is one of the ancient gods, presumably. 
We have worshipped him since before the Cataclysm."
"Worship?" Tanis asked. "Or cry to him in despair because your people were shut 
out of the Kingdom under the Mountain. No, don't get mad-" Tanis, seeing the 
dwarf's face flush an ugly red, held up his hand. "The elves are no better. We 
cried to the gods when our homeland was laid waste. We know of the gods and we 
honor their memories-as one would honor the dead. The elven clerics vanished 
long ago, as did the dwarven clerics. I remember Mishakal the Healer. I remember 
hearing the stories of her when I was young. I remember hearing stories of 
dragons, too. Children's tales, Raistlin would say. It seems our childhood has 
come back to haunt us-or save us, I don't know which. I have seen two miracles 
tonight, one of evil and one of good. I must believe in both, if I am to trust 
the evidence of my senses. Yet . . ." The half-elf sighed. "I say we take turns 
on watch tonight. I am sorry, lady. I wish my faith were as strong as yours."
Sturm took first watch. The rest wrapped themselves in their blankets and lay on 
the tile floor. The knight walked through the moonlit temple, checking the quiet 
rooms, more from force of habit than because he felt any threat. He could hear 
the wind blow chill and fierce outside, sweeping out from the north. But inside 
it was strangely warm and comfortable-too comfortable.
Sitting at the base of the statue, Sturm felt a sweet peacefulness creep over 
him. Startled, he sat bolt upright and realized, chagrined, that he had nearly 
fallen asleep on watch. That was inexcusable! Berating himself severely, the 
knight determined that he would walk his watch-the full two hours-as punishment. 
He started to rise, then stopped. He heard singing, a woman's voice. Sturm 
stared around wildly, his hand on his sword. Then his hand slipped from the 
hilt. He recognized the voice and the song. It was his mother's voice. Once more 
Sturm was with her. They were fleeing Solamnia, traveling alone except for one 
trusted retainer-and he would be dead before they reached Solace. The song was 
one of those wordless lullabies that were older than dragons. Sturm's mother 
held her child close, and tried to keep her fear from him by singing this 
gentle, soothing song. Sturm's eyes closed. Sleep blessed him, blessed all of 
the companions.
The light from Raistlin's staff glowed brightly, keeping away the darkness.
 
 
17
The Paths of the Dead.
Raistlins new friends.
 
The sound of metal crashing against the tile floor jolted Tanis out of a deep 
sleep. He sat up, alarmed, his hand fumbling for his sword.
"Sorry" Caramon said, grinning shamefacedly. "I dropped my breastplate."
Tanis drew a deep breath that turned into a yawn, stretched, and lay back down 
on his blanket. The sight of Caramon putting on his armor-with Tasslehoff's 
help-reminded the half-elf of what they faced today. He saw Sturm buckling his 
armor on as well, while Riverwind polished the sword he had picked up. Tanis 
firmly put the thought of what might happen to them today out of his mind.
That was not an easy task, especially for the elven part of Tanis-elves revere 
life and, although they believe that death is simply a movement into a higher 
plane of existence, death of any creature is seen to diminish life on this 
plane. Tanis forced the human side of him to take possession of his soul today. 
He would have to kill, and perhaps he would have to accept the death of one or 
more of these people he loved. He remembered how he had felt yesterday, when he 
thought he might lose Riverwind. The half-elf frowned and sat up suddenly, 
feeling as if he had awakened from a bad dream.
"Is everyone up?" he asked, scratching his beard.
Flint stumped over and handed him a hunk of bread and some dried strips of 
venison. "Up and breakfasted," the dwarf grumbled. "You could have slept through 
the Cataclysm, Half-Elf"
Tanis took a bite of venison without appetite. Then, wrinkling his nose, he 
sniffed. "What's that funny smell?"
"Some concoction of the mage's." The dwarf grimaced, plopping down next to 
Tanis. Flint pulled out a block of wood and began carving, hacking away 
furiously, making chips fly. "He pounded up some sort of powder in a cup and 
added water. Stirred it up and drank it, but not before it made that gullymudge 
smell. I'm happier not knowing what it was."
Tanis agreed. He chewed on the venison. Raistlin was now reading his spellbook, 
murmuring the words over and over until he had committed them to memory. Tanis 
wondered what kind of spell Raistlin had that might be useful against a dragon. 
From what little he remembered about dragonlore-learned ages ago from the elven 
bard, Quivalen Soth -only the spells of the very greatest mages had a chance of 
affecting dragons, who could work their own magic-as they had witnessed.
Tanis looked at the frail young man absorbed in his spellbook and shook his 
head. Raistlin might be powerful for his age, and he was certainly devious and 
clever. But dragons were ancient. They had been in Krynn before the first 
elves-the oldest of the races-walked the land. Of course, if the plan the 
companions discussed last night worked out, they wouldn't even encounter the 
dragon. They hoped simply to find the lair and escape with the Disks. It was a 
good plan, Tanis thought, and probably worth about as much as smoke on the wind. 
Despair began to creep over him like a dank fog.
"Well, I'm all set," Caramon announced cheerfully. The big warrior felt 
immeasurably better in his armor. The dragon seemed a very small annoyance this 
morning. He tunelessly whistled an old marching song as he stuffed his 
mud-stained clothing into his pack. Sturm, his armor carefully adjusted, sat 
apart from the companions, his eyes closed, performing whatever secret ritual 
knights performed, preparing himself mentally for combat. Tanis stood up, stiff 
and cold, moving around to get the circulation going and ease the soreness from 
his muscles. Elves did nothing before battle, except ask forgiveness for taking 
life.
"We, too, are ready," Goldmoon said. She was dressed in a heavy gray tunic made 
of soft leather trimmed with fur. She had braided her long silver-gold hair in a 
twist around her head-a precaution against an enemy using her hair to gain a 
handhold.
"Let's get this over with." Tanis sighed as he picked up the longbow and quiver 
of arrows Riverwind had taken from the draconian camp and slung them over his 
shoulder. In addition, Tanis was armed with a dagger and his longsword. Sturm 
had his two-handed sword. Caramon carried his shield, a longsword, and two 
daggers Riverwind had scrounged. Flint had replaced his lost battle-axe with one 
from the draconian camp. Tasslehoff had his hoopak and a small dagger he had 
discovered. He was very proud of it and was deeply wounded when Caramon told him 
it would be of use if they ran into any ferocious rabbits. Riverwind bore his 
longsword strapped to his back and still carried Tanis's dagger. Goldmoon bore 
no weapon other than the staff. We're well armed, Tanis thought gloomily. For 
all the good it will do us.
The companions left the chamber of Mishakal, Goldmoon coming last. She gently 
touched the statue of the goddess with her hand as she passed, whispering a 
silent prayer.
Tas led the way, skipping merrily, his topknot bouncing behind him. He was going 
to see a real live dragon! The kender couldn't imagine anything more exciting.
Following Caramon's directions, they headed east, passing through two more sets 
of golden double doors, and came to a large circular room. A tall, slime-coated 
pedestal stood in the center-so tall not even Riverwind could see what, if 
anything, was on it. Tas stood beneath it, staring up at it wistfully.
"I tried to climb it last night," he said, "but it was too slippery. I wonder 
what's up there?"
"Well, whatever it is will have to stay forever beyond the reach of kenders," 
Tanis snapped irritably. He walked over to investigate the staircase that 
spiraled down into the darkness. The stairs were broken and covered with rotting 
plants and fungus.
"The Paths of the Dead," Raistlin said suddenly.
"What?" Tanis started.
"The Paths of the Dead," the mage repeated. "That's what this staircase is 
called."
"How in the name of Reorx do you know that?" Flint growled.
"I have read something of this city," Raistlin replied in his whispering voice.
"This is the first we've heard of it," Sturm said coldly. "What else do you know 
that you haven't told us?"
"A great many things, knight," Raistlin returned, scowling. "While you and my 
brother played with wooden swords, I spent my time in study."
"Yes, study of that which is dark and mysterious," the knight sneered. "What 
really happened in the Towers of High Sorcery, Raistlin? You didn't gain these 
wonderful powers of yours without giving something in return. What did you 
sacrifice in that Tower? Your health-or your soul!"
"I was with my brother in the Tower," Caramon said, the warrior's normally 
cheerful face now haggard. "I saw him battle powerful mages and wizards with 
only a few simple spells. He defeated them, though they shattered his body. I 
carried him, dying, from the terrible place. And I-" The big man hesitated.
Raistlin stepped forward quickly and placed his cold, thin hand on his twin's 
arm.
"Be careful what you say," he hissed.
Caramon drew a ragged breath and swallowed. "I know what he sacrificed," the 
warrior said in a husky voice. Then he lifted his head proudly. "We are 
forbidden to speak of it. But you have known me many years, Sturm Brightblade, 
and I give you my word of honor-you may trust my brother as you trust me. If 
ever a time comes when that is not so, may my death- and his-be not far behind."
Raistlin's eyes narrowed at this vow. He regarded his brother with a thoughtful, 
somber expression. Then Tanis saw the mage's lip curl, the serious mien wiped 
out by his customary cynicism. It was a startling change. For a moment, the 
twins' resemblance to each other had been remarkable. Now they were as different 
as opposite sides of a coin.
Sturm stepped forward and clasped Caramon's hand, gripping it tightly, 
wordlessly. Then he turned to face Raistlin, unable to regard him without 
obvious disgust. "I apologize, Raistlin, " the knight said stiffly. "You should 
be thankful you have such a loyal brother."
"Oh, I am," Raistlin whispered.
Tanis glanced at the mage sharply, wondering if he had only imagined sarcasm in 
the mage's hissing voice. The half-elf licked his dry lips, a sudden, bitter 
taste in his mouth. "Can you guide us through this place?" he asked abruptly.
"I could have," Raistlin answered, "if we had come here prior to the Cataclysm. 
The books I studied dated back hundreds of years. During the Cataclysm, when the 
fiery mountain struck Krynn, the city of Xak Tsaroth was cast down the side of a 
cliff. I recognize this staircase because it is still intact. As for beyond-" He 
shrugged.
"Where do the stairs lead?"
"To a place known as the Hall of the Ancestors. Priests and kings of Xak Tsaroth 
were buried in crypts there."
"Let's get moving," Caramon said gruffly. "All we're doing here is scaring 
ourselves."
"Yes." Raistlin nodded. "We must go and go quickly. We have until nightfall. By 
tomorrow, this city will be overrun by the armies moving from the north."
"Bah!" Sturm frowned. "You may know lots of things as you claim, mage, but you 
can't know that! Caramon is right, though-we have stayed here too long. I will 
take the lead."
He started down the stairs, moving carefully to keep from slipping on the slimy 
surface. Tanis saw Raistlin's eyes-narrow, golden slits of enmity-follow Stunn 
down.
"Raistlin, go with him and light the way," Tanis ordered, ignoring the angry 
glance Sturm flashed up at him. "Caramon, walk with Goldmoon. Riverwind and I 
will take rear guard."
"And where does that leave us?" Flint grumbled to the kender as they followed 
behind Goldmoon and Caramon. "In the middle, as usual. Just more useless 
baggage-"
"There might be anything up there," Tas said, looking back to the pedestal. He 
obviously hadn't heard a word of what had been said. "A crystal ball of 
farseeing, a magic ring like I once had. Did I ever tell you about my magic 
ring?" Flint groaned. Tanis heard the kender's voice prattling on as the two 
disappeared down the stairs.
The half-elf turned to Riverwind. "You were here-you must have been. We have 
seen the goddess who gave you the staff. Did you come down here?"
"I don't know," Riverwind said wearily. "I remember nothing about it. 
Nothing-except the dragon."
Tanis fell silent. The dragon. It all came down to the dragon. The creature 
loomed large in everyone's thoughts. And how feeble the small group seemed 
against a monster who had sprung full grown from Krynn's darkest legends. Why 
us? Tanis thought bitterly. Was there ever a more unlikely group of 
heroes-bickering, grumbling, arguing-half of us not trusting the other half. "We 
were chosen." That thought brought little comfort. Tanis remembered Raistlin's 
words. "Who chose us-and why!" The half-elf was beginning to wonder.
They moved silently down the steep stairway that curled ever deeper into the 
hillside. At first it was intensely dark as they spiraled down. Then the way 
began to get lighter, until Raistlin was able to extinguish the light on his 
staff. Soon Sturm raised his hand, halting the others behind him. Beyond 
stretched a short corridor, no more than a few feet long. This led to a large 
arched doorway that revealed a vast open area. A pale gray light filtered into 
the corridor, as did the odor of dankness and decay.
The companions stood for long moments, listening carefully. The sound of rushing 
water seemed to come from below and beyond the door, nearly drowning out all 
other sounds. Still, Tanis thought he had heard something else-a sharp crack- 
and he had felt more than heard a thumping and throbbing on the floor. But it 
didn't last long, and the sharp crack wasn't repeated. Then, more puzzling 
still, came a metallic scraping sound punctuated by an occasional shrill 
screech. Tanis glanced at Tasslehoff questioningly.
The kender shrugged. "I haven't a clue," he said, cocking his head and listening 
closely. "I've never heard anything like it, Tanis, except once-" He paused, 
then shook his head. "Do you want me to go look?" he asked eagerly.
"Go"
Tasslehoff crept down the short corridor, flitting from shadow to shadow. A 
mouse running across thick carpet makes more noise than a kender when he wants 
to escape notice. He reached the door and peered out. Ahead of him stretched 
what must once have been a vast ceremonial hall. Hall of the Ancestors, that's 
what Raistlin called it. Now it was a Hall of Ruins. Part of the floor to the 
east had fallen into a hole from which a foul-smelling white mist boiled up. Tas 
noticed other huge holes gaping in the floor, while chunks of large stone tile 
stuck up like grave markers. Carefully testing the floor beneath his feet, the 
kender stepped out into the hall. Through the mist he could faintly distinguish 
a dark doorway on the south wall . . . and another on the north. The strange 
screeching sound came from the south. Tas turned and began walking in that 
direction.
He suddenly heard the thumping and throbbing sound again to the north, behind 
him, and felt the floor start to tremble. The kender hurriedly dashed back into 
the stairwell. His friends had heard the sound and were flattened against the 
wall, weapons in hand. The thumping sound grew into a loud whoosh. Then ten or 
fifteen squat, shadowy figures rushed past the arched doorway. The floor shook. 
They heard hard breathing and an occasional muttered word. Then the figures 
vanished in the mist, heading south. There was another sharp cracking sound, 
then silence.
"What in the name of the Abyss was that?" Caramon exclaimed. "Those weren't 
draconians, unless they've come up with a short, fat breed. And where'd they 
come from?"
"They came from the north end of the hall," Tas said. "There's a doorway there 
and one to the south. The weird screeching sounds come from the south, where 
those things were headed."
"What's east?" Tanis asked.
"Judging by the sound of falling water I could hear, about a thousand-foot 
drop," the kender replied. "The floor's caved in. I wouldn't recommend walking 
over there."
Flint sniffed. "I smell something . . . something familiar. I can't place it."
"I smell death," Goldmoon said, shivering, holding her staff close.
"Naw, this is something worse," Flint muttered. Then his eyes opened wide and 
his face grew red with rage and anger. "I've got it!" he roared. "Gully dwarf!" 
He unslung his axe. "That's what those miserable little things were. Well, the 
won't be gully dwarves for long. They'll be stinking corpses!"
He dashed forward. Tanis, Sturm, and Caramon leaped after him just as he reached 
the end of the corridor and dragged him back.
"Keep quiet!" Tanis ordered the sputtering dwarf. "Now, how sure are you that 
they are gully dwarves?"
The dwarf angrily shook himself from Caramon's grasp. "Sure!" he started to 
roar, then dropped it to a loud whisper. "Didn't they hold me prisoner for three 
years?"
"Did they?" Tanis asked, startled.
"That's why I never told you where I was these last five years," the dwarf said, 
flushing with embarrassment. His face darkened. "But I swore I'd get revenge. 
I'll kill every living gully dwarf I come across."
"Wait a minute," Sturm interrupted. "Gully dwarves aren't evil-not like goblins 
at any rate. What could they be doing living here with draconians?"
"Slaves," Raistlin answered coolly. "Undoubtedly the gully dwarves have lived 
here many years, probably ever since the city was abandoned. When the draconians 
were sent, perhaps, to guard the Disks, they found the gully dwarves and used 
them as slave labor."
"They might be able to help us then," Tanis murmured.
"Gully dwarves!" Flint exploded. "You'd trust those filthy little-"
"No," Tanis said. "We cannot trust them, of course. But nearly every slave is 
willing to betray his master, and gully dwarves-like most dwarves-feel little 
loyalty to anyone except their own chieftains. As long as we don't ask them to 
do anything that might endanger their own dirty skins, we might be able to buy 
their aid."
"Well, i'll be an ogre's hind end!" Flint said in disgust. He hurled his axe to 
the ground, tore his pack off, and slumped down against the wall, arms folded. 
"Go on. Go ask your new friends to help you. I'll not be with you! They'll help 
you, all right. Help you right up the dragon's snout!"
Tanis and Sturm exchanged concerned glances, remembering the boat incident. 
Flint could be incredibly stubborn, and Tanis thought it quite likely that this 
time the dwarf would prove immovable.
"I dunno." Caramon sighed and shook his head. "It's too bad the dwarf's staying 
behind. If we do get the gully dwarves to help us, who'll keep the scum in 
line?"
Amazed that Caramon could be so subtle, Tanis smiled and picked up on the 
warrior's lead. "Sturm, I guess."
"Sturm!" The dwarf bounded to his feet. "A knight who won't stab an enemy in the 
back? You need someone who knows these foul creatures-"
"You're right, Flint," Tanis said gravely. "I guess you'll have to come with 
us."
"You bet," Flint grumbled. He grabbed his things and stumped off down the 
corridor. He turned around. "You coming?"
Hiding their smiles, the companions followed the dwarf out into the Hall of the 
Ancestors. They kept close to the wall, avoiding the treacherous floor. They 
headed south, following the gully dwarves, and entered a dimly lit passage that 
ran south only a few hundred feet, then turned sharply east. Once again they 
heard the cracking noise. The metallic screeching had stopped. Suddenly, they 
heard behind them the sound of pounding feet.
"Gully dwarves!" growled Flint.
"Back!" Tanis ordered. "Be ready to jump them. We can't let them raise an 
alarm!"
Everyone flattened himself against the wall, sword drawn and ready. Flint held 
his battle-axe, a look of eager anticipation on his face. Staring back into the 
vast hall, they saw another group of short fat figures running toward them.
Suddenly, the leader of the gully dwarves looked up and saw them. Caramon leaped 
out in front of the small running figures, his huge arm raised commandingly. 
"Halt!" he said. The gully dwarves glanced up at him, swarmed around him, and 
disappeared around the corner to the east. Caramon turned around to stare after 
them in astonishment.
"Halt ..." he said half-heartedly.
A gully dwarf popped back around the corner, glared at Caramon, and put a grubby 
finger to his lips. "Shhhhh!" Then the squat figure vanished. They heard the 
cracking sound and the screeching noise started up again.
"What do you suppose is going on?" Tanis asked softly.
"Do they all look like that?" Goldmoon said, her eyes wide. "They're so filthy 
and ragged, and there are sores all over their bodies."
"And they have the brains of a doorknob," Flint grunted.
The group cautiously rounded the comer, hands on their weapons. A long, narrow 
corridor extended east, lit by torches that flickered and smoked in the stifling 
air. The light reflected off walls wet with condensed moisture. Arched doorways 
revealing only blackness opened up off the hallway
"The crypts," Raistlin whispered.
Tanis shivered. Water dripped on him from the ceiling. The metallic screeching 
was louder and nearer. Goldmoon touched the half-elf's arm and pointed. Tanis 
saw, down at the far end of the corridor, a doorway. Beyond the opening was 
another passageway forming a T-intersection. The corridor was filled with gully 
dwarves.
"I wonder why the little guys are lined up," Caramon said.
"This is our chance to find out," Tanis said. He was starting forward when he 
felt the mage's hand on his arm.
"Leave this to me," Raistlin whispered.
"We had better come with you," Sturm stated, "to cover you, of course."
"Of course," Raistlin sniffed. "Very well, but do not disturb me."
Tanis nodded. "Flint, you and Riverwind guard this end of the corridor," Flint 
opened his mouth to protest, then scowled and fell back to stand opposite the 
Plainsmen.
"Stay well behind me," Raistlin ordered, then moved down the corridor, his red 
robes rustling around his ankles, the Staff of Magius thumping softly on the 
floor at each step. Tanis and Sturm followed, moving along the side of the 
dripping walls. Cold air flowed from the crypts. Peering inside one, Tanis could 
see the dark outline of a sarcophagus reflected in the sputtering torchlight. 
The coffin was elaborately carved, decorated with gold that shone no longer. An 
oppressive air hung over the crypts. Some of the tombs appeared to have been 
broken into and plundered. Tanis caught a glimpse of a skull grinning out of the 
darkness. He wondered if these ancient dead were planning their revenge for 
having their rest disturbed. Tanis forced himself to return to reality. It was 
bleak enough.
Raistlin stopped when he neared the end of the corridor. The gully dwarves 
watched him curiously, ignoring the others behind him. The mage did not speak. 
He reached into a pouch on his belt and drew out several golden coins. The gully 
dwarves' eyes brightened. One or two at the front of the line edged toward 
Raistlin to get a better view. The mage held up a coin so they all could see it. 
Then he threw it high into the air and ... it vanished!
The gully dwarves gasped. Raistlin opened his hand with a flourish to reveal the 
coin. There was scattered applause. The gully dwarves crept closer, mouths 
gaping in wonder.
Gully dwarves-or Aghar, as their race was known-were truly a miserable lot. The 
lowest caste in dwarven society, they were to be found all over Krynn, living in 
filth and squalor in places that had been abandoned by most other living 
creatures, including animals. Like all dwarves, they were clannish, and several 
clans often lived together, following the rule of their chieftains or one 
particularly powerful clan leader. Three clans lived in Xak Tsaroth-the Sluds, 
the Bulps, and the Glups. Members of all three clans now surrounded Raistlin. 
There were both males and females, though it was not easy to tell the sexes 
apart. The females lacked whiskers on their chins but had them on their cheeks. 
They wore a tattered overskirt wrapped around their waists extending to their 
bony knees. Otherwise, they were every bit as ugly as their male counterparts. 
Despite their wretched appearance, gully dwarves generally led a cheerful 
existence.
Raistlin, with marvelous dexterity, made the coin dance over his knuckles, 
flipping it in and out of his fingers. Then he made it disappear, only to 
reappear inside the ear of some startled gully dwarf who stared at the mage in 
amazement. This last trick produced a momentary interruption in the performance 
as the Aghar's friends grabbed him and peered intently into his ear, one of them 
even sticking his finger inside to see if more coins might be forthcoming. This 
interesting activity ceased, though, when Raistlin reached into another pouch 
and removed a small scroll of parchment. Spreading it open with his long, thin 
fingers, the mage began to read from it, chanting softly, "SuA tangus moipar, 
ast akular kalipar" The gully dwarves watched in total fascination.
When the mage finished reading, the spidery-looking words on the scroll began to 
burn. They flared, then disappeared, leaving traces of green smoke.
"What was that all about?" Sturm asked suspiciously.
"They are now spellbound," Raistlin replied. "I have cast over them a spell of 
friendship."
The gully dwarves were enthralled and, Tanis noticed, the expressions on their 
faces had changed from interest to open, unabashed affection for the mage. They 
reached out and patted him with their dirty hands, jabbering away in their 
shapeless language. Sturm glanced at Tanis in alarm. Tanis knew what the knight 
was thinking; Raistlin could have cast that spell on any of them at any time.
Hearing the sound of running feet, Tanis looked quickly back to where Riverwind 
stood guard. The Plainsman pointed to the gully dwarves, then held up his hands, 
fingers spread. Ten more were heading their way. Soon, the new Aghar trotted 
into view, passing Riverwind without so much as a glance. They pulled up short 
on seeing the commotion around the mage.
"What happening?" said one, staring at Raistlin. The spellbound gully dwarves 
were gathered around the mage, tugging on his robe and dragging him down the 
hall.
"Friend. This our friend," they all chattered wildly in a crude form of Common.
"Yes," Raistlin said in a soft and gentle voice, so smooth and winning that 
Tanis was momentarily taken aback. "You are all my friends," the mage continued. 
"Now, tell me, my friends- where does this corridor lead?" Raistlin pointed to 
the east. 
There was an immediate babble of answers.
"Corridor lead that way," said one, pointing east.
"No, it lead that way!" said another, pointing west.
A scuffle broke out, the gully dwarves pushing and shoving. Soon fists were 
flying and then one gully dwarf had another on the ground, kicking him, yelling, 
"That way! That way!" at the top of his lungs.
Sturm turned to Tanis. "This is ridiculous! They'll bring every draconian in the 
place down on us. I don't know what that crazy magician has done, but you've got 
to stop him."
Before Tanis could intervene, however, one female gully dwarf took matters into 
her own hands. Dashing into the melee, she grabbed the two combatants, knocked 
their heads together smartly, and dumped them on the floor. The others, who had 
been cheering them on, immediately hushed, and the newcomer turned to Raistlin. 
She had a thick, bulbous nose and her hair stood up wildly on her head. She wore 
a patched and ragged dress, thick shoes, and stockings that collapsed around her 
ankles. But she seemed to be a leader among the gully dwarves, for they all eyed 
her with respect. This may have been because she carried a huge, heavy bag slung 
over one shoulder. The bag dragged along the ground as she walked, occasionally 
tripping her. But the bag was apparently of great importance to her. When one of 
the other gully dwarves attempted to touch it, she whirled around and smacked 
him across the face.
"Corridor lead to big bosses," she said, nodding her head toward the east.
"Thank you, my dear," Raistlin said, reaching out to touch her cheek. He spoke a 
few words, "Tan-tago, musalah."
The female gully dwarf watched, fascinated, as he spoke. Then she sighed and 
gazed up at him in adoration.
"Tell me, little one," Raistlin said. "How many bosses?"
The gully dwarf frowned, concentrating. She raised a grubby hand. "One," she 
said, holding up one finger. "And one, and one, and one." Looking up at Raistlin 
triumphantly, she held up four fingers and said, "Two."
"I'm beginning to agree with Flint," Sturm growled.
"Shhhh," Tanis said. Just then the screeching noise stopped. The gully dwarves 
looked down the corridor uneasily as into the silence came the harsh cracking 
sound again.
"What is that noise?" Raistlin asked his spellbound adorer.
"Whip," the female gully dwarf said emotionlessly. Reaching out her filthy hand, 
she took hold of Raistlin's robe and started to pull him toward the east end of 
the corridor. "Bosses get mad. We go."
"What is it you do for the bosses?" Raistlin asked, holding back.
"We go. You see." The gully dwarf tugged on him. "We down. They up. Down. Up. 
Down. Up. Come. You go. We give ride down."
Raistlin, being carried along on a tide of Aghar, looked back at Tanis, 
motioning with his hand. Tanis signaled to Riverwind and Flint, and everyone 
started moving down the hall behind the gully dwarves. Those Raistlin had 
charmed remained clustered around him, trying to stay as close as possible, 
while the rest ran off down the corridor when the whip cracked again. The 
companions followed Raistlin and the gully dwarves down to the comer, where the 
screeching noise started up once again, much louder now.
The female gully dwarf brightened as she heard it. She and the rest of the gully 
dwarves halted. Some of them slouched against the slime-covered walls, others 
plopped on the floor like sacks. The female stayed near Raistlin, holding the 
hem of his sleeve in her small hand. "What is it?" he asked. "Why have we 
stopped?"
"We wait. Not our turn yet," she informed him.
"What will we do when it is our turn?" he asked patiently.
"Go down," she said, staring up at him adoringly.
Raistlin looked at Tanis, shook his head. The mage decided to try a new 
approach.
"What is your name, little one?" he asked.
"Bupu."
Caramon snorted and quickly clapped his hand over his mouth.
"Now, Bupu," Raistlin said in dulcet tones, "do you know where the dragon's lair 
is?"
"Dragon?" Bupu repeated, astounded. "You want dragon?"
"No," Raistlin said hastily, "we don't want the dragon-just the dragon's lair, 
where the dragon lives."
"Oh, me not know that." Bupu shook her head. Then, seeing disappointment on 
Raistlin's face, she clutched his hand. "But me take you to the great Highbulp. 
He know everything."
Raistlin raised his eyebrows. "And how do we get to the Highbulp?"
"Down!" she said, grinning happily. The screeching sound stopped. There was a 
crack of a whip. "It our turn to go down now. You come. You come now. Go see 
Highbulp."
"Just a moment." Raistlin extricated himself from the gully dwarf's grasp. "I 
must talk to my friends." He walked over to Tanis and Sturm. "This Highbulp is 
probably head of the clan, maybe head of several clans."
"If he's as intelligent as this lot, he won't know where his own wash bowl is, 
let alone the dragon," Sturm growled.
"He'll know, most likely," Flint spoke up grudgingly. "They're not smart, but 
gully dwarves remember everything they see or hear if you can just get them to 
put it into words of more than one syllable."
"We better go see the great Highbulp then," Tanis said ruefully. "Now, if we 
could just figure out what this up and down business is and that squeaking 
noise-"
"I know!" said a voice.
Tanis looked around. He had completely forgotten about Tasslehoff. The kender 
came running back in from around the comer, his topknot dancing, eyes shining 
with merriment. "It's a lift, Tanis," he said. "Like in dwarven mines. I was in 
a mine, once. It was the most wonderful thing. They had a lift that took rock up 
and down. And this is just like it. Well, almost like it. You see-" He was 
suddenly overcome with giggles and couldn't go on. The rest glaring at him, the 
kender made a violent effort to control himself
"They're using a giant lard-rendering pot! The gully dwarves that have been 
standing in line here run out when one of the draco-thing-a-ma-jiggers cracks 
this big whip. They all jump into the pot that's attached to a huge chain 
wrapped around a spoked wheel with teeth that fit into the links of the chain- 
that's what's squeaking! The wheel turns and down they go, and pretty soon up 
comes another pot-"
"Big bosses. Pot full of big bosses," Bupu said.
"Filled with draconians!" Tanis repeated in alarm.
"Not come here," Bupu said. "Go that way-" She waved a hand vaguely.
Tanis remained uneasy. "So these are the bosses. How many draconians are there 
by the pot?"
"Two," said Bupu, holding Raistlin's sleeve securely. "Not more than two."
"Actually, there are four," Tas said with an apologetic glance for contradicting 
the gully dwarf. "They're the little ones, not the big ones that cast spells."
"Four." Caramon flexed his huge arms. "We can handle four."
"Yes, but we've got to time it so that fifteen more aren't arriving," Tanis 
pointed out.
The whip cracked again.
"Come!" Bupu tugged urgently on Raistlin's sleeve. "We go. Bosses get mad."
"I'd say this is as good a time as any," Sturm said, shrugging. "Let the gully 
dwarves run as usual. We'll follow and overwhelm the bosses in the confusion. If 
one pot is up here waiting to be loaded with gully dwarves, the other has to be 
on the ground level."
"I suppose," Tanis said. He turned to the gully dwarves. "When you get to the 
lift-er, pot-don't jump in. Just dodge aside and keep out of the way. All 
right?"
The gully dwarves stared at Tanis with deep suspicion. The half-elf sighed and 
looked at Raistlin. Smiling slightly, the mage repeated Tanis's instructions. 
Immediately the gully dwarves began to smile and nod enthusiastically.
The whip cracked again and the companions heard a harsh voice. "Quit loafing, 
you scum, or we'll chop your nasty feet off and give you an excuse for being 
slow!"
"We'll see whose feet get chopped off, " Caramon said.
"This be some fun!" said one of the gully dwarves solemnly. The Aghar dashed 
down the corridor.
 
 
18
Fight at the lift.
Bupu's cure for a cough.
 
A lot mist rose from two large holes in the floor, swirling around whatever was 
nearby. Between the two holes was a large wheel, around which ran a gigantic 
chain. A tremendous black iron pot hung suspended from the chain over one of the 
holes. The other end of the chain disappeared through the other hole. Four 
armor-clad draconians, two of them swinging leather whips and armed with curved 
swords, stood around the pot. They were visible only briefly, then mist hid them 
from view. Tanis could hear the whip crack and a guttural voice bellowing.
"You louse-ridden dwarf vermin! What're you doing, holding back there. Get into 
this pot before I flay the filthy flesh from your nasty bones! I-ulp!"
The draconian stopped in midsentence, its eyes bulging out of its reptilian head 
as Caramon emerged from the mist, roaring his battle-cry. The draconian let out 
a yell that changed into a choking gurgle as Caramon grabbed the creature around 
its scrawny neck, lifted it off its clawed feet, and hurled it back against the 
wall. Gully dwarves scattered as the body hit the wall with a bone-crushing 
thump.
Even as Caramon attacked, Sturm-swinging his great two-handed sword-yelled out 
the knight's salute to an enemy and lopped the head off a draconian who never 
saw what was coming. The severed head rolled on the floor with a crunching sound 
as it changed to stone.
Unlike goblins, who attack anything that moves without strategy or thought, 
draconians are intelligent and quick-thinking. The two remaining by the pot had 
no intention of taking on five skilled and well-armed warriors. One of them 
immediately jumped into the pot, yelling instructions to its companion in their 
guttural language. The other draconian dashed over to the wheel and freed the 
mechanism. The pot began to drop through the hole.
"Stop it!" Tanis yelled. "It's going for reinforcements!"
"Wrong!" shouted Tasslehoff, peering over the edge. "The reinforcements are 
already on the way up in the other pot. There must be twenty of them!"
Caramon ran to stop the draconian operating the lift, but he was too late. The 
creature left the mechanism turning and dashed toward the pot. With a great 
bound, it leaped in after its companion. Caramon, on the principle of don't let 
the enemy get away, jumped right into the pot after it! The gully dwarves 
cheered and hooted, some dashing over to the edge to get a better view.
"That big idiot!" Sturm swore. Shoving gully dwarves aside to look down, he saw 
swinging fists and flashing armor as Caramon and the draconians flailed away at 
each other. Caramon's added weight caused the pot to fall faster.
"They'll cut the lummox to jerky down there," Sturm muttered. "I'm going after 
him," he yelled to Tanis. Launching himself into the air. he grabbed hold of the 
chain and slid right down it into the pot.
"Now we've lost both of them!" Tanis groaned. "Flint, come with me. Riverwind, 
stay up here with Raistlin and Goldmoon. See if you can reverse that damned 
wheel! No, Tas, not you!"
Too late. The Render, screaming enthusiastically, leaped onto the chain and 
began shinnying down. Tanis and Flint jumped into the hole, too. Tanis wrapped 
his arms and legs around the chain, hanging on just above the kender, but the 
dwarf missed his hold, landing in the pot helmet first. Caramon promptly stepped 
on him.
The draconians in the pot pinned the warrior against the side. He punched one, 
sending it slamming to the other side, and drew his dagger on the other as it 
fumbled for its sword. Caramon stabbed before the draconian could get the sword 
free, but the warrior's dagger glanced off the creature's armor and was jarred 
out of Caramon's grasp. The draconian went for his face, trying to gouge his 
eyes out with its clawed hands. Grabbing the draconian's wrists in a crushing 
grip, Caramon succeeded in wrenching its hands away from his face. The two 
powerful beings-human and draconian- struggled against the side of the pot.
The other draconian recovered from Caramon's blow and seized its sword. But its 
dive for the warrior came to an abrupt halt when Sturm, sliding down the chain, 
kicked it hard in the face with his heavy boot. The draconian reeled backwards, 
the sword flying from its grasp. Sturm leaped and tried to club the creature 
with the flat of his sword, but the draconian thrust the blade aside with its 
hands.
"Get off me!" Flint roared from the bottom of the pot. Blinded by his helm, he 
was being slowly crushed by Caramon's big feet. In a spurt of ferocious anger, 
the dwarf straightened his helm, then heaved himself up, causing Caramon to lose 
his footing and tumble forward into the draconian. The creature sidestepped 
while Caramon staggered into the huge chain. The draconian swung its sword 
wildly. Caramon ducked and the sword clanged uselessly against the chain, 
notching the blade. Flint hurled himself at the draconian, hitting it squarely 
in the stomach with his head. The two fell against the side.
The pot gained momentum, swirling the foul mists around them.
Keeping his eyes on the action below, Tanis lowered himself down the chain. 
"Stay put!" he snarled at Tasslehoff. Letting go his grip, Tanis dropped down 
and landed in the midst of the melee. Tas, disappointed but reluctant to disobey 
Tanis, clung to the chain with one hand while he reached into his pouch and 
pulled out a rock, ready to drop it-on the head of an enemy, he hoped.
The pot began to sway as the combatants fell against the sides in their 
struggles, all the while dropping lower and lower, causing the other pot-filled 
with screaming and cursing draconians-to rise higher and higher.
Riverwind, standing at the hole with the gully dwarves, could see very little 
through the mist. He could, however, hear thumps and curses and groans from the 
pot holding his friends. Then out of the mist rose the other pot. Draconians 
stood, swords in their hands, staring, open-mouthed, up at him, their long red 
tongues panting in anticipation. In moments, he and Goldmoon, Raistlin, and 
fifteen gully dwarves would be facing about twenty angry draconians!
He spun around, stumbled over a gully dwarf, regained his balance, and ran to 
the mechanism. Somehow he had to stop that pot from rising. The huge wheel was 
turning slowly, the chain screeching through the spokes. Riverwind stared at it 
with the idea of grabbing the chain in his bare hands. A flurry of red shoved 
him aside. Raistlin watched the wheel for an instant, timing its rotation, then 
he jammed the Staff of Magius in between the wheel and the floor. The staff 
shivered for an instant and Riverwind held his breath, fearing the staff would 
snap. But it held! The mechanism shuddered to a stop.
"Riverwind!" Goldmoon yelled from where she had remained by the hole. The 
Plainsman ran over to the edge, Raistlin following. The gully dwarves, lined up 
around the hole, were having a wonderful time, thoroughly enjoying one of the 
most interesting events to occur in their lives. Only Bupu moved away from the 
edge-she trotted after Raistlin, grasping his robe whenever possible.
"Khark-umatr'breathed Riverwind as he looked down into the swirling mist.
Caramon tossed overboard the draconian he had been fighting. It fell with a 
shriek into the mist. The big warrior had claw marks on his face and a sword 
slash on his right arm. Sturm, Tanis, and Flint still battled the second 
draconian who seemed willing to kill regardless of the consequences. When it 
finally became clear that hitting was not enough, Tanis stabbed it with his 
dagger. The creature sank down, immediately turning to rock, holding Tanis's 
weapon fast in its stony corpse.
Then the pot lurched to a halt, jolting everyone.
"Look out! Neighbors!" yelled Tasslehoff, dropping off the chain. Tanis looked 
over to see the other pot, filled with draconians, swinging only about twenty 
feet away. Armed to the teeth, the draconians were preparing a boarding 
maneuver. Two clambered up onto the edge of the pot, ready to leap across the 
misty gap. Caramon leaned over the edge of the pot and made a wild and vicious 
swing with his sword in an attempt to slash one of the boarders. He missed and 
the momentum of his swing set the pot rotating on its chain.
Caramon lost his balance and fell forward, his great weight tipping the pot 
dangerously. He found himself staring directly down at the ground far below him. 
Sturm grabbed hold of Caramon's collar and yanked him back, causing the pot to 
rock erratically. Tanis slipped, landing on his hands and knees at the bottom of 
the pot where he discovered that the stone draconian had decayed into dust, 
allowing him to retrieve his dagger.
"Here they come!" Flint yelled, hauling Tanis to his feet.
One draconian launched itself toward them and caught hold of the edge of the pot 
with its clawed hands. The pot tilted precariously once again.
"Get over there!" Tanis shoved Caramon to the opposite side, hoping the 
warrior's weight would keep the pot stable. Sturm hacked at the draconian's 
hands, trying to force it to let go. Then another draconian flew over, gauging 
its distance better than the first. It landed in the pot next to Sturm.
"Don't move!" Tanis screamed at Caramon as the warrior instinctively charged 
into combat. The pot tilted. The big man quickly returned to his position. The 
pot righted itself. The draconian hanging onto the edge, its fingers oozing 
green, let go, spread its wings, and floated down into the mist.
Tanis spun around to fight the draconian that had landed in the pot and fell 
over Flint, knocking the dwarf off his feet again. The half-elf staggered 
against the side. As the pot rocked, he stared down. The mists parted and he saw 
the ruined city of Xak Tsaroth far below him. When he drew back, feeling sick 
and disoriented, he saw Tasslehoff fighting the draconian. The little kender 
crawled up the creatures back and bashed it on the head with a rock. At the 
bottom of the pot, Flint picked up Caramon's dropped dagger and stabbed the same 
creature in the leg. The draconian screamed as the blade bit deep. Knowing more 
draconians were about to fly over, Tanis looked up in despair. But the despair 
turned to hope when he saw Riverwind and Goldmoon staring down through the mist.
"Bring us back up!" Tanis yelled frantically, then something hit him on the 
head. The pain was excruciating. He felt himself falling and falling and 
falling. . . .
Raistlin did not hear Tanis's yell-the mage had already gone into action.
"Come here, my friends," Raistlin said swiftly. The spellbound gully dwarves 
gathered eagerly around him. "Those bosses down there want to hurt me," he said 
softly.
The gully dwarves growled. Several frowned darkly. A few shook their fists at 
the potful of draconians.
"But you can help," Raistlin said. "You can stop them."
The gully dwarves stared at the mage dubiously. Friendship-after all-went only 
so far.
"All you must do," Raistlin said patiently, "is run over and jump on that 
chain." He pointed at the chain attached to the draconians' pot.
The gully dwarves' faces brightened. That didn't sound bad. In fact, it was 
something they did almost daily when they missed catching hold of the pot.
Raistlin waved his arm. "Go!" he ordered.
The gully dwarves-all except Bupu-glanced at each other, then dashed to the edge 
of the hole and, yelling wildly, flung themselves onto the chain above the 
draconians, clinging to it with marvelous dexterity.
The mage ran over to the wheel, Bupu trotting along after him. Grabbing the 
Staff of Magius, he tugged it free. The wheel shivered and began to move once 
again, turning more and more rapidly as the weight of the gully dwarves caused 
the draconian pot to plummet back down into the mists.
Several of the draconians who had been perched on the edge about to jump into 
the other pot were caught off guard by the sudden jolt. They lost their balance 
and fell. Though their wings stopped their fall, they shrieked in rage as they 
drifted to the ground below, their cries contrasting oddly with the gleeful 
shouts of the gully dwarves.
Riverwind leaned out over the edge of the hole and caught hold of the 
companions' pot as it reached the wheel.
"Are you all right?" Goldmoon asked anxiously, leaning over to help Caramon out.
"Tanis is hurt," Caramon said, supporting the half-elf.
"It's just a bump," Tanis protested groggily. He felt a large lump rising on the 
back of his skull. "I thought I was falling out of that thing." He shuddered at 
the memory.
"We can't get down that way!" Sturm said, climbing out of the pot. "And we can't 
stay around up here. It won't take them long to get this lift back in operation 
and then they'll be after us. We'll have to go back."
"No! Don't go!" Bupu clutched at Raistlin. "I know way to Highbulp!" She tugged 
at his sleeve, pointing north. "Good way! Secret way! No bosses," she said 
softly, stroking his hand. "I not let bosses get you. You pretty."
"We don't seem to have much choice. We've got to get down there," Tanis said, 
wincing when Goldmoon's staff touched him. Then the healing power flowed through 
his body. He relaxed as the pain eased and sighed. "As you said, they've lived 
here for years."
Flint growled and shook his head as Bupu started down the corridor, heading 
north.
"Stop! Listen!" Tasslehoff called softly. They heard the sound of clawed feet 
coming toward them.
"Draconians!" said Sturm. "We've got to get out of here! Head back west."
"I knew it," Flint grumbled, scowling. "That gully dwarf's led us right into 
those lizards!"
"Wait!" Goldmoon gripped Tanis's arm. "Look at her!"
The half-elf turned to see Bupu remove something limp and shapeless from the bag 
she carried over her shoulder. Stepping up to the wall, she waved the thing in 
front of the stone slab and muttered a few words. The wall shivered, and within 
seconds, a doorway appeared, leading into darkness.
The companions exchanged uneasy glances.
"No choice," Tanis muttered. The rattle and clank of armored draconians could be 
heard clearly, marching down the corridor toward them. "Raistlin, light," he 
ordered.
The mage spoke and the crystal on his staff flared. He and Bupu and Tanis 
quickly passed through the secret door. The rest followed, and the other door 
slid shut behind them. The mage's staff revealed a small, square room decorated 
with wall carvings so covered with green slime that they were impossible to 
distinguish. They stood in silence as they heard draconians pass in the 
corridor.
"They must have heard the fight," Sturm whispered. "It won't take them long to 
get the lift in motion, then we'll have the whole draconian force after us!"
"I know way down." Bupu waved her hand deprecatingly. "No worry."
"How did you open the door, little one?" Raistlin asked curiously, kneeling 
beside Bupu.
"Magic," she said shyly and she held out her hand. Lying in the gully dwarf's 
grubby palm was a dead rat, its teeth fixed in a permanent grimace. Raistlin 
raised his eyebrows, then Tasslehoff touched his arm.
"It's not magic, Raistlin," the kender whispered. "It's a simple, hidden floor 
lock. I saw it when she pointed at the wall and I was about to say something 
when she went through this magic rigmarole. She steps on it when she gets close 
to the door and waves that thing." The kender giggled. "She probably tripped it 
once, accidentally, while carrying the rat."
Bupu gave the kender a scathing glance. "Magic!" she stated, pouting and 
stroking the rat lovingly. She popped it back into her bag and said, "Come, you 
go." She led them north, passing through broken, slime-coated rooms. Finally she 
came to a halt in a room filled with rock dust and debris. Part of the ceiling 
had collapsed and the floor was littered with broken tiles. The gully dwarf 
jabbered and pointed at something in the northeast coner of the room.
"Go down!" she said.
Tanis and Raistlin walked over to inspect. They found a four-foot wide pipe, one 
end sticking up out of the crumbling floor. Apparently it had fallen through the 
ceiling, caving in the northeast section of the room. Raistlin thrust his staff 
down inside the pipe and peered inside.
"Come, you go!" Bupu said, pointing and tugging at Raistlin's sleeve urgently. 
"Bosses can't follow."
"That's probably true," Tanis said. "Not with their wings."
"But there's not room enough to swing a sword," Sturm said, frowning. "I don't 
like it-"
Suddenly everyone stopped talking. They heard the wheel creak and the chain 
start to screech. The companions looked at each other.
"Me first!" Tasslehoff grinned. Poking his head in the pipe he crawled forward 
on his hands and knees.
"Are you sure I'll fit?" Caramon asked, staring at the opening anxiously.
"Don't worry." Tas's voice floated out. "It's so slick with slime you'll slip 
through like a greased pig."
This cheerful statement did not seem to impress Caramon. He continued to regard 
the pipe gloomily as Raistlin, led by Bupu, clutched his robes around him and 
slid inside, his staff lighting the way. Flint climbed in next. Goldmoon 
followed, grimacing in disgust as her hands slipped in the thick, green slime. 
Riverwind slid in after her.
"This is insane-I hope you know that!" Sturm muttered in disgust.
Tanis didn't answer. He clapped Caramon on the back. "Your turn," he said, 
listening to the sound of the chain moving faster and faster.
Caramon groaned. Getting down on his hands and knees, the big warrior crawled 
forward into the pipe opening. His sword hilt caught on the edge. Backing out, 
he fumbled to readjust the sword, then he tried again. This time his rump stuck 
up too far making his back scrape along the top. Tanis planted his foot firmly 
on the big warrior's rear end and shoved.
"Flatten down!" the half-elf ordered.
Caramon collapsed like a wet sack with another groan. He squirmed in, head 
first, shoving his shield in front of him, his armor dragging along the metal 
pipe with a shrill, scraping sound that set Tanis's teeth on edge.
The half-elf reached out and grasped the top of the pipe. Thrusting his legs in 
first, he began to slide in the foul-smelling slime. He twisted his head around 
to look back at Sturm, who came last.
"Sanity ended when we followed Tika into the kitchen of the Inn of the Last 
Home," he said.
"True enough," the knight agreed with a sigh.
Tasslehoff, enthralled by the new experience of crawling down the pipe, suddenly 
saw dark figures at the bottom end. Scrabbling for a handhold, he slid to a 
stop.
"Raistlin!" the kender whispered. "Something's coming up the pipe!"
"What is it?" the mage started to ask, but the foul, moist air caught in his 
throat and he began to cough. Trying to catch his breath, he shone the staff's 
light down the pipe to see who approached.
Bupu took one look and sniffed. "Gulp-pulphers!" she muttered. Waving her hand, 
she shouted. "Go back! Go back!"
"We go up-ride lift! Big bosses get mad!" yelled one.
"We go down. See Highbulp!" Bupu said importantly.
At this, the other gully dwarves began backing down, muttering and swearing.
But Raistlin couldn't move for a moment. He clutched his chest, hacking, the 
sound echoing alarmingly in the stillness of the narrow pipe. Bupu gazed at him 
anxiously, then thrust her small hand into her bag, fished around for several 
moments, and came up with an object that she held up to the light. She squinted 
at it, then sighed and shook her head. "This not what I want," she mumbled.
Tasslehoff, catching sight of a brilliant, colorful flash, crept closer. "What 
is that?" he asked, even though he knew the answer. Raistlin, too, was staring 
at the object with wide glittering eyes.
Bupu shrugged. "Pretty rock," she said without interest, searching through the 
bag once more.
"An emerald!" Raistlin wheezed.
Bupu glanced up. "You like?" she asked Raistlin.
"Very much!" The mage gasped.
"You keep," Bupu put the jewel in the mage's hand. Then, with a cry of triumph, 
she brought out what she had been searching for. Tas, leaning up close to see 
the new wonder, drew back in disgust. It was a dead-very dead-lizard. There was 
a piece of chewed-on leather cord tied around the lizard's stiff tail. Bupu held 
it toward Raistlin.
"You wear around neck," she said. "Cure cough."
The mage, accustomed to handling much more unpleasant objects than this, smiled 
at Bupu and thanked her, but declined the cure, assuring her that his cough was 
much improved. She looked at him dubiously, but he did seem better-the spasm had 
passed. After a moment, she shrugged and put the lizard back into her bag. 
Raistlin, examining the emerald with expert eyes, stared coldly at Tasslehoff. 
The kender, sighing, turned his back and continued down the pipe. Raistlin 
slipped the stone into one of the secret inner pockets sewn into his robes.
When a branch pipe joined theirs, Tas looked questioningly at the gully dwarf. 
Bupu hesitantly pointed south, into the new pipe. Tas entered slowly. "This is 
stee-" he gasped as he began to slide rapidly down. He tried to slow his 
descent, but the slime was too thick. Caramon's explosive oath, echoing down the 
pipe from behind him, told the kender that his companions were having the same 
problem. Suddenly Tas saw light ahead of him. The tunnel was coming to an 
end-but where? Tas had a vivid vision of bursting out five hundred feet above 
nothing. But there wasn't anything he could do to stop himself. The light grew 
brighter, and Tasslehoff shot out the end of the pipe with a small shriek.
Raistlin slid out of the pipe, nearly falling on Bupu. The mage, looking around, 
thought for an instant that he had tumbled into a fire. Great, billowing clouds 
of white rolled around the room. Raistlin began to cough and gasp for breath.
"Wha-?" Flint flew out of the end of the pipe, falling on his hands and knees. 
He peered through the cloud. "Poison?" He gasped crawling over to the mage. 
Raistlin shook his head, but he couldn't answer. Bupu clutched the mage, 
dragging him toward the door. Goldmoon slid out on her stomach, knocking the 
breath from her body. Riverwind tumbled out, twisting his body to avoid hitting 
Goldmoon. There was a clanging bang as Caramon's shield shot from the pipe. 
Caramon's spiked armor and broad girth had slowed him enough so that he was able 
to crawl out of the pipe. But he was bruised and battered and covered with green 
filth. By the time Tanis arrived, everyone was gagging in the powdery 
atmosphere.
"What in the name of the Abyss?" Tanis said, astonished, then promptly choked as 
he inhaled a lungful of the white stuff. "Get out of here," he croaked. "Where's 
that gully dwarf?"
Bupu appeared in the doorway. She had taken Raistlin out of the room and was now 
motioning to the others. They emerged thankfully into the unclouded air and 
slumped down to rest among the ruins of a street. Tanis hoped they weren't 
waiting for an army of draconians. Suddenly he looked up. "Where's Tas?" he 
asked in alarm, staggering to his feet.
"Here I am," said a choked and miserable voice.
Tanis whirled around.
Tasslehoff-at least Tanis presumed it was Tasslehoff-stood before him. The 
kender was covered from topknot to toes in a thick, white, pasty substance. All 
Tanis could see of him were two brown eyes blinking out of a white mask.
"What happened?" the half-elf asked. He had never seen anyone quite so miserable 
as the bedraggled kender.
Tasslehoff didn't answer. He just pointed back inside.
Tanis, fearing something disastrous, ran over and peered cautiously through the 
crumbling doorway. The white cloud had dissipated so that he could see around 
the room now. Over in one corner-directly opposite the pipe opening-stood a 
number of large, bulging sacks. Two of them had been split open, spilling a mass 
of white onto the floor.
Then Tanis understood. He put his hand over his face to hide his smile. "Flour," 
he murmured.
 
 
19
One broken city.
Highbulp Phudge I, the Great.
 
The night of the Cataclysm had been a night of horror for the city of Xak 
Tsaroth. When the fiery mountain struck Krynn, the land split apart. The ancient 
and beautiful city of Xak Tsaroth slid down the face of a cliff into a vast 
cavern formed by the huge rents in the ground. Thus, underground, it was lost to 
the sight of men, and most people believed the city had vanished entirely, 
swallowed up by Newsea. But it still existed, clinging to the rough sides of the 
cavern walls, spread out upon the floor of the cavern-there were ruined 
buildings on several different levels. 
The building the companions had fallen into, which Tanis assumed must have been 
a bakery, was on the middle level, caught by rocks and held up against the sheer 
cliff face. Water from underground streams flowed down the sides of the rock and 
ran into the street, swirling among the ruins. Tanis's gaze followed the course 
of the water. It ran down the middle of the cracked cobblestone street, running 
past other small shops and houses where people had once lived and gone about 
their business. When the city fell, the tall buildings that once lined the 
street toppled against one another, forming a crude archway of broken marble 
slabs above the cobblestones. Doors and broken shop windows yawned into the 
street. All was still and quiet, except for the noise of the dripping water. The 
air was heavy with the odor of decay. It weighed upon the spirit. And though the 
air was warmer down beneath the ground level than up above, the gloomy 
atmosphere chilled the blood. No one spoke. They washed the slime from their 
bodies (and the flour from Tas) as best they could, then refilled their water 
skins. Sturm and Caramon searched the area but saw no draconians. After a few 
moments of rest, the companions rose and moved on.
Bupu led them south, down the street, beneath the archway of ruined buildings. 
The street opened into a plaza-here the water in the streets became a river, 
flowing west.
"Follow river." Bupu pointed.
Tanis frowned, hearing above the noise of the river another sound, the crashing 
and roaring of a great waterfall. But Bupu insisted, so the heroes edged their 
way around the plaza river, occasionally plunging ankle deep in the water. 
Reaching the end of the street, the companions discovered the waterfall. The 
street dropped off into air, and the river gushed out from between broken 
columns to fall nearly five hundred feet into the bottom of the cavern. There 
rested the remainder of the ruined city of Xak Tsaroth.
They could see by the dim light that filtered through cracks in the cavern roof 
far above that the heart of the ancient city lay scattered about on the floor of 
the cavern in many states of decay. Some of the buildings were almost completely 
intact. Others, however, were nothing but rubble. A chill fog, created by the 
many waterfalls plunging down into the cavern, hung over the city. Most of the 
streets had become rivers, which combined to flow into a deep abyss to the 
north. Peering through the mists, the companions could see the huge chain 
hanging only a few hundred feet away, slightly north of their present position. 
They realized that the lift raised and lowered people at least one thousand 
feet.
"Where does the Highbulp live?" Tanis asked, looking down into the dead city 
below him.
"Bupu says he lives over there"-Raistlin gestured-"in those buildings on the 
western side of the cavern."
"And who lives in the reconstructed buildings right below us?" Tanis asked.
"Bosses," Bupu replied, scowling.
"How many bosses?"
"One, and one, and one." Bupu counted until she had used up all her fingers. 
"Two," she said. "Not more than two."
"Which could be anything from two hundred to two thousand," Sturm muttered. "How 
do we get to see the Highwhoop."
"Highbulp!" Bupu glared at him. "Highbulp Phudge I. The great."
"How do we get to him, without the bosses catching us?"
In answer, Bupu pointed upward to the rising pot full of draconians. Tanis 
looked blank, glanced at Sturm who shrugged disgustedly. Bupu sighed in 
exasperation and turned to Raistlin, obviously considering the others incapable 
of understanding. "Bosses go up. We go down," she said.
Raistlin stared at the lift through the mist. Then he nodded in understanding. 
"The draconians probably believe that we are trapped up there with no way to get 
down into the city. If most of the draconians are up above, that would allow us 
to move safely below."
"All right," Sturm said. "But how in the name of Istar do we get down? Most of 
us can't fly!"
Bupu spread her hands. "Vines!" she said. Seeing everyone's look of confusion, 
the gully dwarf stumped over to the edge of the waterfall and pointed down. 
Thick, green vines hung over the edge of the rocky cliff like giant snakes. The 
leaves on the vines were torn, tattered, and, in some places, stripped off 
entirely, but the vines themselves appeared thick and tough, even if they were 
slippery.
Goldmoon, unusually pale, crept toward the edge, peered over, and backed away 
hurriedly. It was a five-hundred-foot drop straight down to a rubble-strewn 
cobblestone street.
Riverwind put his arm around her, comfortingly.
"I've climbed worse," Caramon said complacently.
"Well, I don't like it," said Flint. "But anything's better than sliding down a 
sewer." Grabbing hold of the vine, he swung himself over the ledge and began to 
inch slowly down hand over hand. "It's not bad," he shouted up.
Tasslehoff slid down a vine after Flint, traveling rapidly and with such skill 
that he received a grunt of approbation from Bupu.
The gully dwarf turned to look at Raistlin, pointing at his long, flowing robes 
and frowning. The mage smiled at her reassuringly. Standing on the edge of the 
cliff, he said softly, "Pveathrfall" The crystal ball on top of his staff flared 
and Raistlin leaped off the edge of the cliff, disappearing into the mist below. 
Bupu shrieked. Tanis caught her, fearing the adoring gully dwarf might throw 
herself over.
"He'll be fine," the half-elf assured her, feeling a flash of pity when he saw 
the look of genuine anguish on her face. "He is magi," he said. "Magic. You 
know."
Bupu obviously did not know because she stared at Tanis suspiciously, threw her 
bag around her neck, grabbed hold of a vine, and began scrabbling down the 
slippery rock. The rest of the companions were preparing to follow when Goldmoon 
whispered brokenly, "I can't."
Riverwind took her hands. "Kan-toka" he said softly, "it will be all right. You 
heard what the dwarf said. Just don't look down."
Goldmoon shook her head, her chin quivering. "There must be another way," she 
said stubbornly. "We will search for it!"
"What's the problem?" Tanis asked. "We should hurry-"
"She's afraid of heights," Riverwind said.
Goldmoon shoved him away. "How dare you tell him that!" she shouted, her face 
flushed with anger.
Riverwind stared at her coldly. "Why not?" he said, his voice grating. "He's not 
your subject. You can let him know you're human, that you have human frailties. 
You have only one subject to impress now. Chieftain, and that is me!"
If Riverwind had stabbed her, he could have inflicted no more terrible pain. The 
color drained from Goldmoon's lips. Her eyes grew wide and staring, like the 
eyes of a corpse. "Please secure the staff on my back," she said to Tanis.
"Goldmoon, he didn't mean-" he began.
"Do as I command!" she ordered curtly, her blue eyes blazing in anger.
Tanis, sighing, tied the staff to her back with a length of rope. Goldmoon did 
not even glance at Riverwind. When the staff was fastened tightly, she started 
toward the edge of the cliff. Sturm jumped in front of her.
"Allow me to go down the vine ahead of you," he said. "If you slip-"
"If I slip and fall, you'd fall with me. The only thing we'd accomplish would be 
to die together," she snapped. Leaning down, she took a firm grip on the vine 
and swung herself over the edge. Almost immediately, her sweating hands slipped. 
Tanis's breath caught in his throat. Sturm lunged forward, though he knew there 
wasn't anything he could do. Riverwind stood watching, not a sign of emotion on 
his face. Goldmoon clutched frantically at the vines and thick leaves. She 
caught hold and clung to them tightly, unable to breath, unwilling to move. She 
pressed her face against the wet leaves, shuddering, her eyes closed to block 
out the sight of the terrifying drop to the ground below. Sturm went over the 
edge and climbed down to her.
"Leave me alone," Goldmoon said to him through clenched teeth. She drew a 
trembling breath, cast a proud, defiant glance at Riverwind, then began to lower 
herself down the vine.
Sturm stayed near her, keeping an eye on her, as he skillfully climbed down the 
cliff face. Tanis, standing next to Riverwind, wanted to say something to the 
Plainsman but feared to do more harm. Saying nothing, therefore, he went over 
the edge. Riverwind followed silently.
The half-elf found the climb easy, though he slipped the last few feet, landing 
in an inch of water. Raistlin, he noticed, was shivering with the cold, his 
cough worsening in the damp air. Several gully dwarves stood around the mage, 
staring at him with admiring eyes. Tanis wondered how long the charm spell would 
last.
Goldmoon leaned against the wall, shaking. She did not look at Riverwind as he 
reached the ground and moved away from her, his face still expressionless.
"Where are we?" Tanis shouted above the noise of the waterfall. The mist was so 
thick he couldn't see anything except broken columns, overgrown with vines and 
fungus.
"Great Plaza that way." Bupu urgently jabbed her grubby finger toward the west. 
"Come. You follow. Go see Highbulp!"
She started off. Tanis reached out his hand and caught hold of her, dragging her 
to a stop. She glared at him, deeply offended. The half-elf removed his hand. 
"Please. Just listen a moment! What about the dragon? Where's the dragon?"
Bupu's eyes widened. "You want dragon?" she asked.
"No!" yelled Tanis. "We don't want the dragon. But we need to know if the dragon 
comes into this part of the city-" He felt Sturm's hand on his shoulder and gave 
up. "Forget it. Never mind," he said wearily. "Go on."
Bupu regarded Raistlin with deep sympathy for having to put up with these insane 
people, then she took the mage's hand and trotted off down the street to the 
west, the other gully dwarves trailing along behind. Half-deafened by the 
thundering noise of the waterfall, the companions waded after, glancing about 
them uneasily-dark windows loomed above them, dark doorways threatened. At each 
moment, they expected scaly, armored draconians to appear. But the gully dwarves 
did not seem concerned. They sloshed along the street, keeping as close to 
Raistlin as possible, and jabbering in their uncouth language.
Eventually the sounds of the waterfall faded in the distance. The mist continued 
to swirl around them, however, and the silence of the dead city was oppressive. 
Dark water gushed and gurgled past their feet along the cobblestone riverbed. 
Suddenly the buildings came to an end and the street opened into a huge, 
circular plaza. Through the water they could see the remnants in the plaza of 
flagstone paving in an intricate sunburst design. In the center of the plaza, 
the river was joined by another stream rushing in from the north. They formed a 
small whirlpool as the waters met and swirled before joining and continuing west 
between another group of tumble-down buildings.
Here, light streamed into the plaza from a crack in the cavern roof hundreds of 
feet above, illuminating the ghostly mists, dancing off the surface of the water 
whenever the mists parted.
"Other side Great Plaza," Bupu pointed.
The companions came to a halt in the shadows of the ruined buildings. All of 
them had the same thought: The plaza was over one hundred feet across without a 
scrap of shelter. Once they ventured out, there would be no hiding.
Bupu, trotting along without concern, suddenly realized no one was following her 
except other gully dwarves. She looked back, irritated at the delay. "You 
come-Highbulp this way."
"Look!" Goldmoon grasped Tanis's arm.
On the other side of the great flagstone plaza were great, tall marble columns 
that supported a stone roof. The columns were cracked and shattered, letting the 
roof sag. The mists parted and Tanis caught a glimpse of a courtyard behind the 
columns. Dark forms of tall, domed buildings were visible beyond the courtyard. 
Then the mists closed around them. Though now sunk into degradation and ruin, 
this structure must have once been the most magnificent in Xak Tsaroth.
"The Royal Palace," Raistlin confirmed, coughing.
"Shhhh!" Goldmoon shook Tanis's arm. "Can't you see? No, wait-"
The mists flowed in front of the pillars. For a moment the companions could not 
see anything. Then the fog swirled away. The companions shrank back into the 
dark doorway.
The gully dwarves came to a skidding halt in the plaza and, whirling around, 
raced back to cower behind Raistlin.
Bupu peered at Tanis from under the mage's sleeve. "That dragon," she said. "You 
want?"
It was the dragon.
Sleek and shining black, her leathery wings folded at her side, Khisanth 
slithered out from under the roof, ducking her head to fit beneath the sagging 
stone facade. Her clawed front feet clicked on the marble stairs as she stopped 
and stared into the floating mist with her bright red eyes. Her back legs and 
heavy reptilian tail were not visible, the dragon's body extending thirty feet 
or more back into the courtyard. A cringing draconian walked beside her, the two 
apparently deep in conversation.
Khisanth was angry. The draconian had brought her disturbing news-it was 
impossible that any of the strangers could have survived her attack at the well! 
But now the captain of her guard reported strangers in the city! Strangers who 
attacked her forces with skill and daring, strangers bearing a brown staff whose 
description was known to every draconian serving in this part of the Ansalon 
continent.
"I cannot believe this report! None could have escaped me." Khisanth's voice was 
soft, almost purring, yet the draconian trembled as he heard it. "The staff was 
not with them. I would have sensed its presence. You say these intruders are 
still above, in the upper chambers? Are you certain?"
The draconian gulped and nodded. "There is no way down, royal one, except the 
lift."
"There are other ways, you lizard," Khisanth sneered. "These miserable gully 
dwarves crawl around the place like parasites. The intruders have the staff, and 
they are trying to get down into the city. That means only one thing-they are 
after the Disks! How could they have learned of them?" The dragon snaked her 
head around and up and down as if she could see those who threatened her plans 
through the blinding mists. But the mists swirled past, thicker than ever.
Khisanth snarled in irritation. "The staff! That miserable staff! Verminaard 
should have foreseen this with those clerical been destroyed. But, no, he is 
busy with his war while I must rot here in this dank tomb of a city." Khisanth 
gnawed a talon as she pondered.
"You could destroy the Disks," the draconian suggested, greatly daring.
"Fool, don't you think we've tried?" Khisanth muttered. She lifted her head. 
"No, it is far too dangerous to stay here longer. If these intruders know of the 
secret, others must also. The Disks should be removed to a safe place. Inform 
Lord Verminaard that I am leaving Xak Tsaroth. I will join him in Pax Tharkas 
and I will bring the intruders with me for questioning."
"Inform Lord Verminarrd?" the draconian asked, shocked.
"Very well," Khisanth responded sarcastically. "If you insist on the charade, 
ask my Lord's permission. I suppose you have sent most of the troops up to the 
top?"
"Yes, royal one." The draconian bowed.
Khisanth considered the matter. "Perhaps you are not such an idiot after all," 
she mused. "I can handle things below. Concentrate your search in the upper 
parts of the city. When you find these intruders, bring them straight to me. Do 
not hurt them any more than necessary to subdue them. And be careful of that 
staff!"
The draconian fell to its knees before the dragon who sniffed in derision and 
crept back into the dark shadows out of which she had come.
The draconian ran down the stairs where it was joined by several more creatures 
who appeared out of the mist. After a brief, muffled exchange in their own 
language, the draconians started up the north street. They walked nonchalantly, 
laughing at some private joke, and soon vanished into the mist.
"They're not worried, are they?" Sturm said.
"No," Tanis agreed grimly. "They think they've got us."
"Let's face it, Tanis. They're right," Sturm said. "This plan we've been 
discussing has one major flaw. If we sneak in without the dragon knowing, and if 
we get the Disks-we still have to get out of this godforsaken city with 
draconians crawling all over the upper levels."
"I asked you before and I'll ask you now," Tanis said. "Have you got a better 
plan?"
"I've got a better plan," Caramon said gruffly. "No disrespect, Tanis, but we 
all know how elves feel about fighting."
The big man gestured toward the palace. "That's obviously where the dragon 
lives. Let's lure it out as we planned, only this time we'll fight it, not creep 
around its lair like thieves. When the dragon's disposed of, then we can get the 
Disks."
"My dear brother," Raistlin whispered, "your strength lies in your swordarm, not 
in your mind. Tanis is wise, as the knight said when we started on this little 
adventure. You would do well to pay attention to him. What do you know of 
dragons, my brother? You have seen the effects of its deadly breath."
Raistlin was overcome by a fit of coughing. He dragged a soft cloth out from the 
sleeve of his robe. Tanis saw that the cloth was stained with blood.
After a moment, Raistlin continued. "You could defend yourself against that, 
perhaps, and against the sharp claws and fangs, and the slashing tail, which can 
knock down those pillars. But what will you use, dear brother, against her 
magic?
Dragons are the most ancient of magic-users. She could charm you as I have 
charmed my little friend. She could put you to sleep with a word, then murder 
you while you dreamed."
"All right," Caramon muttered, chagrined. "I didn't know any of that. Damn it, 
who does know anything about these creatures!"
"There is much lore on the dragons in Solamnia," Sturm said softly.
He wants to fight the dragon, too, Tanis realized. He is thinking of Huma, the 
perfect knight, called Dragonbane.
Bupu tugged on Raistlin's robe. "Come. You go. No more bosses. No more dragon." 
She and the other gully dwarves started splashing across the flagstone plaza.
"Well?" Tanis said, looking at the two warriors.
"It seems we have no choice," Sturm said stiffly. "We do not face the enemy, we 
hide behind gully dwarves! Sooner or later a time must come when we face these 
monsters!" He spun on his heel and walked off, his back straight, his moustaches 
bristling. The companions followed.
"Maybe we're worrying needlessly." Tanis scratched his beard, glancing back at 
the palace that was now obscured by the mist. "Perhaps this is the only dragon 
left in Krynn-one that survived the Age of Dreams."
Raistlin's lips twisted. "Remember the stars, Tanis," he murmured. "The Queen of 
Darkness has returned. Recall the words of the Canticle ' swarm of her shrieking 
hosts.' Her hosts were dragons, according to the ancient ones. She has returned 
and her hosts have come with her."
"This way!" Bupu clutched at Raistlin. pointing down a street branching off to 
the north. "This home!"
"At least it's dry," Flint grumbled. Turning right, they left the river behind 
them. Mist closed in around the companions as they entered another nest of 
ruined buildings. This section of town must have been the poorer part of the 
city of Xak Tsaroth, even in its glory days-the buildings were in the last 
stages of decay and collapse. The gully dwarves began whooping and hollering as 
they ran down the street. Sturm looked at Tanis in alarm at the noise.
"Can't you get them to be quieter?" Tanis asked Bupu. "So the 
draconians-er-bosses won't find us."
"Pooh!" She shrugged. "No bosses. They not come here. Afraid of the great 
Highbulp."
Tanis had his doubts about that, but, glancing around, he couldn't see any signs 
of the draconians. From what he had observed, the lizardlike men seemed to lead 
a well-ordered, militaristic life. By contrast, the streets in this part of town 
were cluttered with trash and filth. The disreputable buildings erupted with 
gully dwarves. Males, females, and dirty, ragged children stared at them 
curiously as they walked down the street. Bupu and the other spellbound gully 
dwarves swarmed around Raistlin, practically carrying him.
The draconians were undeniably smart, Tanis thought. They allowed their slaves 
to live their private lives in peace-so long as they didn't stir up trouble. A 
good idea, considering that gully dwarves out numbered draconians about ten to 
one.
Though they were basically cowards, gully dwarves had a reputation as very nasty 
fighters when backed into a corner.
Bupu brought the group to a halt in front of one of the darkest, dingiest, 
filthiest alleys Tanis had ever seen. A foul mist flowed out it. The buildings 
leaned over, holding each other up like drunks stumbling out of a tavern. As he 
watched, small dark creatures skittered out of the alley and gully dwarf 
children began chasing after them.
"Dinner," shrieked one, smacking his lips.
"Those are rats!" Goldmoon cried in horror.
"Do we have to go in there?" Sturm growled, staring at the tottering buildings.
"The smell alone is enough to knock a troll dead," Caramon added. "And I'd 
rather die under the dragon's claw than have a gully dwarf hovel fall on top of 
me."
Bupu gestured down the alley. "The Highbulp!" she said, pointing to the most 
dilapidated building on the block.
"Stay here and keep watch if you want," Tanis told Sturm.
"I'll go talk with the Highbulp."
"No." The knight scowled, gesturing the half-elf into the alley. "We're in this 
together."
The alley ran several hundred feet to the east, then it twisted north and came 
suddenly to a dead end. Ahead of them was a decaying brick wall and no way out. 
Their return was blocked by gully dwarves who had run in after them.
"Ambush!" Sturm hissed and drew his sword. Caramon began to rumble deep in his 
throat. The gully dwarves, seeing the Hash of cold steel, panicked. Falling all 
over themselves and each other, they whirled and fled back down the alley.
Bupu glared at Sturm and Caramon in disgust. She turned to Raistlin. "You make 
them stop!" she demanded, pointing to the warriors. "Or I not take to Highbulp."
"Put your sword away, knight," Raistlin hissed, "unless you think you've found a 
foe worthy of your attention."
Sturm glowered at Raistlin, and for a moment Tanis thought he might attack the 
mage, but then the knight thrust his sword away. "I wish I knew what your game 
was, magician," Sturm said coldly. "You were so eager to come to this city, even 
before we knew about the Disks. Why? What are you after?"
Raistlin did not reply. He stared at the knight malevolently with his strange 
golden eyes, then turned to Bupu. "They will not trouble you further, little 
one," he whispered.
Bupu looked around to make certain they were properly cowed, then she walked 
forward and knocked twice on the wall with her grubby fist. "Secret door," she 
said importantly.
Two knocks answered Bupu's knock.
"That signal," she said. "Three knocks. Now they let in."
"But she only knocked twice-" Tas began, giggling.
Bupu glared at him.
"Shhh!" Tanis nudged the kender.
Nothing happened. Bupu, frowning, knocked twice more. Two knocks answered. She 
waited. Caramon, his eyes on the alley opening, began moving restlessly from one 
foot to the other. Bupu knocked twice again. Two knocks answered.
Finally Bupu yelled at the wall. "I knock secret code knock. You let in!"
"Secret knock five knocks," answered a muffled voice.
"I knock five knocks!" Bupu stated angrily. "You let in!"
"You knock six knocks."
"I count eight knocks," argued another voice.
Bupu suddenly pushed on the wall with both hands. It opened easily. She peered 
inside. "I knock four knocks. You let in!" she said, raising a clenched fist.
"All right," the voice grumbled.
Bupu shut the door, knocked twice. Tanis, hoping to avoid any more incidents and 
delays, glared at the kender who was writhing with suppressed laughter.
The door swung open-again. "You come in," the guard said sourly. "But that not 
four knocks," he whispered to Bupu loudly. She ignored him as she swept 
disdainfully past him, dragging her bag along the floor.
"We see Highbulp," she announced.
"You take this lot to Highbulp?" One of the guards gasped, staring at the giant 
Caramon and the tall Riverwind with wide eyes. His companion began backing up.
"See Highbulp," Bupu said proudly.
The gully dwarf guard, never taking his eyes off the formidable-looking group, 
backed into a stinking, filthy hallway, then broke into a run. He began shouting 
at the top of his lungs. "An army! An army has broken in!" They could hear his 
shouts echo down the hallway.
"Bah!" Bupu sniffed. "Glup-phunger spawn! Come. See Highbulp."
She started down the hallway, clutching her bag to her chest. The companions 
could still hear the shouts of the gully dwarf echoing down the corridor.
"An army! An army of giants! Save the Highbulp!"
The great Highbulp, Phudge I, was a gully dwarf among gully dwarves. He was 
almost intelligent, rumored to be fabulously wealthy, and a notorious coward. 
The Bulps had long been the elite clan of Xak Tsaroth-or "Th" as they called 
it--ever since Nulph Bulp fell down a shaft one night in a drunken stupor and 
discovered the city. Upon sobering up the next morning, he claimed it for his 
clan. The Bulps promptly moved in and, in later years, graciously allowed the 
clans Slud and Giup to occupy the city as well.
Life was good in the ruined city-by gully dwarf standards, anyway. The outside 
world left them alone (since the outside world hadn't the foggiest notion they 
were there and wouldn't have cared if it did). The Bulps had no trouble 
maintaining their dominance over the other clans, mostly because it was a Bulp 
(Glunggu) with a scientific turn of mind (certain jealous members of the Slud 
clan whispered that his mother had been a gnome) who developed the lift, putting 
to use the two enormous iron pots used by the city's former residents for 
rendering lard. The lift enabled the gully dwarves to extend their scavenging 
activities to the jungle above the sunken city-greatly improving their standard 
of living. Glunggu Bulp became a hero and was proclaimed Highbulp by unanimous 
decision.
The chieftainship of the clans had remained in the Bulp family ever since.
The years passed and then, suddenly, the outside world took an interest in Xak 
Tsaroth. The arrival of the dragon and the draconians put a sad crimp on the 
gully dwarf lifestyle. The draconians had initially intended to wipe out the 
filthy little nuisances, but the gully dwarves-led by the great Phudge-had 
cringed and cowered and whimpered and wailed and prostrated themselves so 
abjectly that the draconians were merciful and simply enslaved them.
So it was that the gully dwarves-for the first time in several hundred years of 
living in Xak Tsaroth-were forced to work. The draconians repaired buildings, 
put things into military order, and generally made life miserable for the gully 
dwarves who had to cook and clean and repair things.
Needless to say, the great Phudge was not pleased with this state of affairs. He 
spent long hours thinking up ways to remove the dragon. He knew the location of 
the dragon's lair, of course, and had even discovered a secret route leading 
there. He had actually sneaked in once, when the dragon was away. Phudge had 
been awestruck by the vast amount of pretty rocks and shining coins gathered in 
the huge underground room. The great Highbulp had traveled some in his wild 
youth and he knew that folk in the outside world coveted these pretty rocks and 
would give vast amounts of colorful and gaudy cloth (Phudge had a weakness for 
fine clothes) in return. On the spot, the Highbulp drew up a map so he wouldn't 
forget how to get back to the treasure. He even had the presence of mind to 
swipe a few of the smaller rocks.
Phudge dreamed of this wealth for months afterwards, but he never found another 
opportunity to return. This was due to two factors: one, the dragon never left 
again and, two, Phudge couldn't make heads nor tails of his map.
If only the dragon would leave permanently, he thought, or if some hero would 
come along and conveniently stick a sword into it! These were the Highbulp's 
fondest dreams, and this was the state of affairs when the great Phudge heard 
his guards proclaiming that an army was attacking.
Thus it came to pass that-when Bupu finally dragged the great Phudge out from 
under his bed and convinced him that he was not about to be set upon by an army 
of giants-Highbulp Phudge I began to believe that dreams could come true.
"And so you're here to kill the dragon," said the great Highbulp, Phudge I, to 
Tanis Half-Elven.
"No," Tanis said patiently, "we're not."
The companions stood in the Court of the Aghar before the throne of a gully 
dwarf Bupu had introduced as the great Highbulp. Bupu kept an eye on the 
companions as they entered the throne room, eagerly anticipating their looks of 
stunned awe. Bupu was not disappointed. The looks on the companions' faces as 
they entered might well be described as stunned.
The city of Xak Tsaroth had been stripped of its finery by the early Bulps who 
used it to decorate the throne room of their lord. Following the philosophy that 
if one yard of gold cloth is good, forty yards is better, and totally 
uninhibited by good taste, the gully dwarves turned the throne room of the great 
Highbulp into a masterpiece of confusion. Heavy, frayed gold cloth swirled and 
draped every available inch of wall space.
Huge tapestries hung from the ceiling (some of them upside-down). The tapestries 
must have once been beautiful, delicate-colored threads blending to show scenes 
of city life, or portray stories and legends from the past. But the gully 
dwarves, wanting to liven them up, painted over the cloth in garish, clashing 
colors. Thus Sturm was shocked to the core of his being when confronted by a 
bright red Huma battling a purple-spotted dragon beneath an emerald green sky.
Graceful, nude statues, standing in all the wrong places, adorned the room as 
well. These, too, the gully dwarves had enhanced, considering pure white marble 
drab and depressing.
They painted the statues with enough realism and attention to detail that 
Caramon-with an embarrassed glance at Goldmoon-flushed bright red and kept his 
eyes on the foor.
The companions, in fact, had problems maintaining their serious mien when 
ushered into this gallery of artistic horrors. One failed utterly; Tasslehoff 
was immediately overcome by the giggles so severely that Tanis was forced to 
send the kender back to the Waiting Place outside the Court to try and compose 
himself. The rest of the group bowed solemnly to the great Phudge-with the 
exception of Flint who stood bolt upright, his hands fingering his battle-axe, 
without the trace of a smile on his aged face.
The dwarf had laid his hand on Tanis's arm before they entered the court of the 
Highbulp. "Don't be taken in by this foolery, Tanis," Flint warned. "These 
creatures can be treacherous.
The Highbulp was somewhat flustered when the companions entered, especially at 
the sight of the tall fighters. But Raistlin made a few well-chosen remarks that 
considerably mollified and reassured (if disappointed) the Highbulp.
The mage, interrupted by fits of coughing, explained that they did not want to 
cause trouble, they simply planned to retrieve an object of religious value from 
the dragon's lair and leave, preferably without disturbing the dragon.
This, of course, didn't fit in with Phudge's plans. He therefore assumed he 
hadn't heard correctly. Cocooned in gaudy robes, he leaned back in the chipped 
gold-leaf throne and repeated calmly, "You here. Got swords. Kill dragon."
"No," said Tanis again. "As our friend, Raistlin, explained, the dragon is 
guarding an object that belongs to our gods. We want to remove the object and 
escape the city before the dragon is aware that it is gone."
The Highbulp frowned. "How me know you not take all treasure, leave Highbulp 
only one mad dragon? There be lot of treasure-pretty rocks."
Raistlin looked up sharply, his eyes gleaming. Sturm, fidgeting with his sword, 
glanced at the mage in disgust.
"We will bring you the pretty rocks," Tanis assured the Highbulp. "Help us and 
you will get all the treasure. We want only to find this relic of our gods."
It had become obvious to the Highbulp that he was dealing with thieves and 
liars, not the heroes he had expected. This group was apparently as frightened 
of the dragon as he was and that gave the Highbulp an idea. "What you want from 
Highbulp?" he asked, trying to subdue his glee and appear subtle.
Tanis sighed in relief. At last they seemed to be getting somewhere. "Bupu"-he 
indicated the female gully dwarf clinging to Raistlin's sleeve-"told us that you 
were the only one in the city who could lead us to the dragon's lair."
"Lead!" The great Phudge lost his composure for a moment and clutched his robes 
around him. "No lead! Great Highbulp not expendable. People need me!"
"No, no. I didn't mean lead," Tanis amended hastily. "If you had a map or could 
send someone to show us the way."
"Map!" Phudge mopped the sweat off his brow with the sleeve of his robe. "Should 
say so in first place. Map. Yes. I send for map. Meantime, you eat. Guests of 
the Highbulp. Guards take to mess hall."
"No, thank you," Tanis said politely, unable to look at the others. They had 
passed the gully dwarf mess hall on their way to see the Highbulp. The smell 
alone had been enough to ruin even Caramon's appetite.
"We have our own food," Tanis continued. "We would like some time to ourselves 
to rest and discuss our plans further."
"Certainly." The Highbulp scooted forward to the front of the throne. Two of his 
guards came over to help him down since his feet didn't touch the floor. "Go 
back to Waiting Place. Sit. Eat. Talk. I send map. Maybe you tell Phudge plans?"
Tanis glanced swiftly at the gully dwarf and saw the Highbulp's squinty eyes 
gleam with cunning. The half-elf felt cold, suddenly realizing this gully dwarf 
was no buffoon. Tanis began to wish he had talked more with Flint. "Our plans 
are hardly formed yet, your majesty," the half-elf said.
The great Highbulp knew better. Long ago he had drilled a hole through the wall 
of the room known as Waiting Place so that he could eavesdrop on his subjects as 
they waited for an audience with him, discovering what they intended to bother 
him about in advance. Thus he knew a great deal about the companions' plans 
already, so he let the matter drop. The use of the term "your majesty" may have 
had something to do with this; the Highbulp had never heard anything quite so 
suitable.
"Your majesty," Phudge repeated, sighing with pleasure. He poked one of his 
guards in the back. "You remember. From now on, say 'Your Majesty.'"
"Y-yes, y-your, uh, majesty," the gully dwarf stuttered. The great Phudge waved 
his filthy hand graciously and the companions bowed their way out. Highbulp, 
Phudge I, stood for a moment beside his throne, smiling in what he considered a 
charming manner until his guests were gone. Then his expression changed, 
transforming into a smile so shrewd and devious his guards crowded around him in 
eager anticipation.
"You," he said to one. "Go to quarters. Bring map. Give to fools in next room."
The guard saluted and ran off. The other guard remained close, waiting in 
open-mouthed expectation. Phudge glanced around, then drew the guard even 
nearer, considering exactly how to phrase his next command. He needed some 
heroes and if he had to create his own out of whatever scum came along, then he 
would do so. If they died, it was no great loss. If they succeeded in killing 
the dragon, so much the better. The gully dwarves would get what was-to 
them-more precious than all the pretty rocks in Krynn: a return to the sweet, 
halcyon days of freedom! And so, enough of this nonsense about sneaking around.
Phudge leaned over and whispered in the guard's ear. "You go to dragon. Give her 
best regards of his majesty, Highbulp, Phudge I, and tell her ... "
 
 
20
The Highbulps map.
The spellbook of Fistandantilus.
 
I don't trust that little bastard any farther than I can stand the smell of 
him," Caramon growled.
"I agree," Tanis said quietly. "But what choice do we have? We've agreed to 
bring him the treasure. He has everything to lose and nothing to gain if he 
betrays us."
They sat on the floor in the Waiting Place, a filthy antechamber outside the 
throne room. The decorations in this room were just as vulgar as in the Court. 
The companions were nervous and tense, speaking little and forcing themselves to 
eat.
Raistlin refused food. Curled up on the floor apart from the others, he prepared 
and drank down the strange herbal mixture that eased his cough. Then he wrapped 
himself in his robes and stretched out, eyes closed, on the floor. Bupu sat 
curled up near him, munching on something from her bag. Caramon, going over to 
check on his brother, was horrified to see a tail disappear into her mouth with 
a slurp.
Riverwind sat by himself. He did not take part in the hushed conversation as the 
friends went over their plans once again.
The Plainsman stared moodily at the floor. When he felt a light touch on his 
arm, he didn't even lift his head. Goldmoon, her face pale, knelt beside him. 
She tried to speak, failed, the cleared her throat.
"We must talk," she said firmly in their language.
"Is that a command?" he asked bitterly.
She swallowed. "Yes," she answered, barely audible.
Riverwind rose to his feet and walked over to stand in front of a garish 
tapestry. He did not look at Goldmoon or even speak to her. His face was drawn 
into a stern mask, but underneath, Goldmoon could see the searing pain in his 
soul. She gently laid her hand on his arm.
"Forgive me," she said softly.
Riverwind regarded her in astonishment. She stood before him, her head bowed, an 
almost childlike shame on her face.
He reached out to stroke the silver-gold hair of the one he loved more than life 
itself. He felt Goldmoon tremble at his touch and his heart ached with love. 
Moving his hand from her head to her neck, he very gently and tenderly drew the 
beloved head to his chest and then suddenly clasped her in his arms.
"I've never heard you say those words before," he said, smiling to himself, 
knowing she could not see him.
"I have never said them," she gulped, her cheek pressed against his leather 
shirt. "Oh, my beloved, I am sorrier than I can say that you came home to 
Chieftain's Daughter and not Goldmoon. But I've been so afraid."
"No," he whispered, "I am the one who should ask forgiveness." He raised his 
hand to wipe away her tears. "I didn't realize what you had gone through. All I 
could think of was myself and the dangers I had faced. I wish you had told me, 
heart's dearest."
"I wished you had asked," she replied, looking up at him earnestly. "I have been 
Chieftain's Daughter so long it is the only thing I know how to be. It is my 
strength. It gives me courage when I am frightened. I don't think I can let go."
"I don't want you to let go." He smiled at her, smoothing wayward strands of 
hair from her face. "I fell in love with Chieftain's Daughter the first time I 
saw you. Do you remember? At the games held in your honor."
"You refused to bow to receive my blessing," she said. "You acknowledged my 
father's leadership but denied that I was a goddess. You said man could not make 
gods of other men." Her eyes looked back so many, many years. "How tall and 
proud and handsome you were, talking of ancient gods that did not exist to me 
then."
"And how furious you were," he recalled, "and how beautiful! Your beauty was a 
blessing to me in itself. I needed no other. You wanted me thrown out of the 
games."
Goldmoon smiled sadly. "You thought I was angry because you had shamed me before 
the people, but that was not so."
"No? What was it then. Chieftain's Daughter?"
Her face flushed a dusky rose, but she lifted her clear blue eyes to him. "I was 
angry because I knew when I saw you standing there, refusing to kneel before me, 
that I had lost part of myself and that, until you claimed it, I would never be 
whole again."
For reply, the Plainsman pressed her to him, kissing her hair gently.
"Riverwind," she said, swallowing, "Chieftain's Daughter is still here. I don't 
think she can ever leave. But you must know that Goldmoon is underneath and, if 
this journey ever ends and we come to peace at last, then Goldmoon will be yours 
forever and we will banish Chieftain's Daughter to the winds."
A thump at the Highbulp's door caused everyone to start nervously as a gully 
dwarf guard stumbled into the room.
"Map," he said, thrusting a crumpled piece of paper at Tanis.
"Thank you," said the half-elf gravely. "And extend our thanks to the Highbulp."
"His Majesty, the Highbulp," the guard corrected with an anxious glance toward a 
tapestry-covered wall. Bobbing clumsily, he backed into the Highbulp's quarters.
Tanis spread the map out. Everyone gathered around it, even Flint. After one 
look however, the dwarf snorted derisively and walked back to his couch.
Tanis laughed ruefully. "We might have expected it. I wonder if the great Phudge 
remembers where the 'big secret room' is?"
"Of course not." Raistlin sat up, opening his strange, golden eyes and peering 
at them through half-closed lids. "That is why he has never returned for the 
treasure. However, there is one among us who knows where the dragon's lair is 
located." Everyone followed the mage's gaze.
Bupu glared back at them defiantly. "You right. I know," she said, sulking. "I 
know secret place. I go there, find pretty rocks But don't tell Highbulp!"
"Will you tell us?" Tanis asked. Bupu looked at Raistlin. He nodded.
"I tell," she mumbled. "Give map."
Raistlin, seeing the others engrossed in looking at the map, beckoned to his 
brother.
"Is the plan still the same?" the mage whispered.
"Yes." Caramon frowned. "And I don't like it. I should go with you."
"Nonsense," Raistlin hissed. "You would only be in my way!"
Then he added more gently, "I will be in no danger, I assure you." He laid his 
hand on his twin's arm and drew him close.
"Besides"-the mage glanced around-"there is something you must do for me, my 
brother. Something you must bring me from the dragon's lair."
Raistlin's touch was unusually hot, his eyes burned. Caramon uneasily started to 
pull back, seeing something in his brother he hadn't seen since the Towers of 
High Sorcery, but Raistlin's hand clutched at him.
"What is it?" Caramon asked reluctantly.
"A spellbook!" Raistlin whispered.
"So this is why you wanted to come to Xak Tsaroth!" said Caramon. "You knew this 
spellbook would be here."
"I read about it, years ago. I knew it had been in Xak Tsaroth prior to the 
Cataclysm, all of the Order knew it, but we assumed it had been destroyed with 
the city. When I found out Xak Tsaroth had escaped destruction, I realized there 
might be a chance the book had survived!"
"How do you know it's in the dragon's lair?"
"I don't. I am merely surmising. To magic-users, this book is Xak Tsaroth's 
greatest treasure. You may be certain that if the dragon found it, she is using 
it!"
"And you want me to get it for you," Caramon said slowly. "What does it look 
like?"
"Like my spellbook, of course, except the bone-white parchment is bound in 
night-blue leather with runes of silver stamped on the front. It will feel 
deathly cold to the touch."
"What do the runes say?"
"You do not want to know. . ." Raistlin whispered.
"Whose book was it?" Caramon asked suspiciously.
Raistlin fell silent, his golden eyes abstracted as if he were searching 
inwardly, trying to remember something forgotten.
"You have never heard of him, my brother," he said finally, in a whisper that 
forced Caramon to lean closer. "Yet he was one of the greatest of my order. His 
name was Fistandantilus."
"The way you describe the spellbook-" Caramon hesitated, fearing what Raistlin 
would reply. He swallowed and started over. "This Fistandantilus-did he wear the 
Black Robes?" He could not meet his brother's piercing gaze.
"Ask me no more!" Raistlin hissed. "You are as bad as the others! How can any of 
you understand me!" Seeing his twin's look of pain, the mage sighed. "Trust me, 
Caramon. It is not a particularly powerful spellbook-one of the mage's early 
books, in fact. One he had when he was very young, very young indeed," Raistlin 
murmured, staring far off. Then he blinked and said more briskly, "But it will 
be valuable to me nonetheless. You must get it! You must-" He started to cough.
"Sure, Raist," Caramon promised, soothing his brother.
"Don't get worked up. I'll find it."
"Good Caramon. Excellent Caramon," Raistlin whispered when he could speak. He 
sank back into the corner and closed his eyes. "Now let me rest. I must be 
ready."
Caramon stood up, looked at his brother a moment, then he turned around and 
nearly fell over Bupu who was standing behind him, gazing up at him suspiciously 
with wide eyes.
"What was all that about?" Sturm asked gruffly as Caramon returned to the group.
"Oh, nothing," the big man mumbled, flushing guiltily.
 
Stunn cast an alarmed glance at Tanis.
"What is it, Caramon?" Tanis asked, putting the rolled map in his belt and 
facing the warrior. "Anything wrong?"
"N-no-" Caramon stuttered. "It's nothing. I-uh-tried to get Raistlin to let me 
go with him. He said I'd just be in the way."
Tanis studied Caramon. He knew the big man was telling the truth, but Tanis also 
knew the warrior wasn't telling all the truth. Caramon would cheerfully shed the 
last drop of his blood for any member of the company, but Tanis suspected he 
would betray them all at Raistlin's command.
The giant looked at Tanis, silently begging him to ask no more questions.
"He's right, you know, Caramon," Tanis said finally, clapping the big man on the 
arm. "Raistlin won't be in danger. Bupu will be with him. She'll bring him back 
here to hide. He's just got to conjure up some of his fancy pyrotechnics, create 
a diversion to draw the dragon away from her lair. He'll be long gone by the 
time she gets there."
"Sure, I know that," said Caramon, forcing a chuckle. "You need me anyway."
"We do," Tanis said seriously. "Now is everyone ready?"
Silently, grimly, they stood up. Raistlin rose and came forward, hood over his 
face, hands folded in his robes. There was an aura around the mage, indefinable, 
yet frightening-the aura of power derived and created from within. Tanis cleared 
his throat.
"We'll give you a five hundred count," Tanis said to Raistlin. "Then we'll 
start. The secret place marked on the map is a trap door located in a building 
not far from here, according to your little friend. It leads beneath the city to 
a tunnel that comes up under the dragon's lair, near where we saw her today. 
Create your diversion in the plaza, then come back here. We'll meet here, give 
the Highbulp his treasure, and lie low until night. When it's dark, we'll 
escape."
"I understand," Raistlin said calmly.
I wish I did, Tanis thought bitterly. I wish I understood what was going on in 
that mind of yours, mage. But the half-elf said nothing.
"We go now?" asked Bupu, looking at Tanis anxiously.
"We go now," Tanis said.
Raistlin crept from the shadowy alley and moved swiftly down the street to the 
south. He saw no signs of life. It was as if all the gully dwarves had been 
swallowed up by the mist. He
found this thought disturbing and kept to the shadows. The frail mage could move 
silently if there was need. He only hoped he could control his coughing. The 
pain and congestion in his chest had eased when he drank the herbal mixture 
whose recipe had been given him by Par-Salian-a kind of apology from the great 
sorcerer for the trauma the young mage had endured. But the mixture's effect 
would soon wear off.
Bupu peered out from behind his robes, her beady black eyes squinting down the 
street leading east to the Great Plaza. "No one," she said and tugged on the 
mage's robe. "We go now."
No one-thought Raistlin, worried. It didn't make sense. Where were the crowds of 
gully dwarves? He had the feeling something had gone wrong, but there wasn't 
time to turn back-Tanis and the others were on their way to the secret tunnel 
entrance. The mage smiled bitterly. What a fool's quest this was turning out to 
be. They would probably all die in this wretched city.
Bupu tugged on his robe again. Shrugging, he cast his hood up over his head and, 
together, he and the gully dwarf flitted down the mist-shrouded street.
Two armor-clad figures detached themselves from a dark doorway and slunk quickly 
after Raistlin and Bupu.
"This is the place," Tanis said softly. Opening a rotting door, he peered in. 
"It's dark in here. We'll need a light."
There was a sound of flint striking metal and then a flare of light as Caramon 
lit one of the torches they had borrowed from the Highbulp. The warrior handed 
one to Tanis and lit one for himself and Riverwind. Tanis stepped inside the 
building and immediately found himself up to his ankles in water. Holding the 
torch aloft, he saw water pouring in steady streams down the walls of the dismal 
room. It swirled around the center of the floor, then ran out through cracks 
around the edges. Tanis sloshed to the center and held his torch close to the 
water.
"There it is. I can see it," he said as the others waded into the room. He 
pointed to a trap door in the floor. An iron pull-ring was barely visible in its 
center.
"Caramon?" Tanis stood back.
"Bah!" Flint snorted. "If a gully dwarf can open this, I can open it. Stand 
aside." The dwarf elbowed everyone back, plunged his hand into the water, and 
heaved. There was a moment's silence. Flint grunted, his face turned red. He 
stopped, straightened up with a gasp, then reached down and tried again. There 
wasn't a creak. The door remained shut.
Tanis put his hand on the dwarf's shoulder. "Flint, Bupu says she only goes down 
during the dry season. You're trying to lift half of Newsea along with the 
door."
"Well"-the dwarf puffed for breath-"why didn't you say so? Let the big ox try 
his luck."
Caramon stepped forward. He reached down into the water and gave a heave. His 
shoulder muscles bulged, and veins in his neck stood out. There was a sucking 
sound, then the suction was released so suddenly that the big warrior nearly 
fell over backwards. Water drained from the room as Caramon eased the wooden 
plank door over. Tanis held his torch down to see. A four-foot-square shaft 
gaped in the floor; a narrow iron ladder descended into the shaft.
"What's the count?" Tanis asked, his throat dry.
"Four hundred and three," answered Slurm's deep voice.
"Four hundred and four."
The companions stood around the trap door, shivering in the chill air, hearing 
nothing but the sound of water pouring down the shaft.
"Four hundred and fifty-one," noted the knight calmly.
Tanis scratched his beard. Caramon coughed twice, as though reminding them of 
his absent brother. Flint fidgeted and dropped his axe in the water. Tas 
absent-mindedly chewed on the end of his topknot. Goldmoon, pale but composed, 
drew near Riverwind, the nondescript brown staff in her hand. He put his arm 
around her. Nothing was worse than waiting.
"Five hundred," said Sturm finally.
"About time!" Tasslehoff swung himself down onto the ladder. Tanis went next, 
holding his torch to light the way for Goldmoon, who came after him. The others 
followed, climbing slowly down into an access shaft of the city sewage system. 
The shaft ran about twenty feet straight down, then opened up into a 
five-foot-wide tunnel that ran north and south.
"Check the depth of the water," Tanis warned the kender as Tas was about to let 
go of the ladder. The kender, hanging onto the last rung with one hand, lowered 
his hoopak staff into the dark, swirling water below him. The staff sank about 
half-way.
"Two feet," said Tas cheerfully. He dropped in with a splash, the water hitting 
him around the thighs. He looked up at Tanis inquiringly.
"That way," Tanis pointed. "South."
Holding his staff in the air, Tasslehoff let the current sweep him along.
"Where's that diversion?" Sturm asked, his voice echoing.
Tanis had been wondering that himself. "We probably won't be able to hear 
anything down here." He hoped that was true.
"Raist'll come through. Don't worry," Caramon said grimly.
"Tanis!" Tasslehoff fell back into the half-elf. "There's something down here! I 
felt it go by my feet."
"Just keep moving," Tanis muttered, "and hope it isn't hungry-"
They waded on in silence, the torchlight flickering off the walls, creating 
illusions in the mind's eye. More than once, Tanis saw something reach out for 
him, only to realize it was the shadow cast by Caramon's helm or Tas's hoopak.
The tunnel ran straight south for about two hundred feet, then turned east. The 
companions stopped. Down the eastern arm of the sewer glimmered a column of dim 
light, filtering down from above. This-according to Bupu-marked the dragon's 
lair.
"Douse the torches!" Tanis hissed, plunging his torch in the water. Touching the 
slimy wall, Tanis followed the kender- Tas's red outline showing up vividly to 
his elven eyes-through the tunnel. Behind him he heard Flint complaining about 
the effects of water on his rheumatism.
"Shhhh," Tanis whispered as they drew near the light. Trying to be silent in 
spite of clanking armor, they soon stood by a slender ladder that ran up to an 
iron grating.
"No one ever bothers to lock floor gratings." Tas pulled Tanis close to whisper 
in his ear. "But I'm sure I can open it, if it is."
Tanis nodded. He didn't add that Bupu had been able to open it as well. The art 
of picking locks was as much a matter of pride to the kender as Slum's 
moustaches were to the knight.
They all stood watching, knee-deep in water, as Tas skimmed up the ladder.
"I still don't hear anything outside," Sturm muttered.
"Shhhh!" Caramon growled harshly.
The grating had a lock, a simple one that Tas opened in moments. Then he 
silently lifted the grating and peered out.
Sudden darkness descended on him, darkness so thick and impenetrable it seemed 
to hit him like a lead weight, nearly making him lose his hold on the grating. 
Hurriedly he put the grating back into place without making a sound, then slid 
down the ladder, bumping into Tanis.
"Tas?" the half-elf grabbed him. "Is that you? I can't see. What's going on?"
"I don't know. It just got dark all of a sudden."
"What do you mean, you can't see?" Sturm whispered to Tanis. "What about your 
elf-talent?"
"Gone," Tanis said grimly, "just as in Darken Wood-and out by the well. . . ."
No one spoke as they stood huddled in the tunnel. All they could hear was the 
sound of their own breathing and water dripping from the walls.
The dragon was up there-waiting for them.
 
 
21
The sacrifice.
The twice-dead city.
 
Despair blacker than the darkness blinded Tanis. It was my plan, the only way we 
had a chance to get out of here alive, he thought. It was sound-it should have 
worked! What went wrong? Raistlin-could he have betrayed us? No! Tanis clenched 
his fist. No, damn it. The mage was distant, unlikable, impossible to 
understand, yes, but he was loyal to them, Tanis would swear it. Where was 
Raistlin? Dead, perhaps. Not that it mattered. They would all be dead.
"Tanis"-the half-elf felt a firm grasp on his arm and recognized Sturm's deep 
voice-"I know what you're thinking. We have no choice. We're running out of 
time. This is our only chance to get the Disks. We won't get another."
"I'm going to look," Tanis said. He climbed past the kender and peered through 
the grate. It was dark, magically dark.
Tanis put his head in his hand and tried to think. Sturm was right, time was 
running out. Yet how could he trust the knight's judgement? Sturm wanted to 
fight the dragon! Tanis crawled back down the ladder. "We're going," he said. 
Suddenly all he wanted to do was get this over with, then they could go home.
Home to Solace. "No, Tas." He grabbed hold of the kender and dragged him back 
down the ladder. "The fighters go first- Sturm and Caramon. Then the rest."
But the knight was already shoving past him eagerly, his sword clanking against 
his thigh.
"We're always last!" Tasslehoff sniffed, shoving the dwarf along. Flint climbed 
the ladder slowly, his knees creaking.
"Hurry up!" Tas said. "I hope nothing happens before we get there. I've never 
talked to a dragon."
"I'll bet the dragon's never talked to a kender either'" The dwarf snorted. "You 
realize, you hare-brain, that we're probably going to die. Tanis knows, I could 
tell by his voice."
Tas paused, clinging to the ladder while Sturm slowly pushed on the grating. 
"You know, Flint," the kender said seriously, "my people don't fear death. In a 
way, we look forward to it-the last big adventure. But I think I'd feel badly 
about leaving this life. I'd miss my things"-he patted his pouches-"and my maps, 
and you and Tanis. Unless," he added brightly, "we all go to the same place when 
we die."
Flint had a sudden vision of the happy-go-lucky kender lying cold and dead. He 
felt a lump of pain in his chest and was thankful for the concealing darkness. 
Clearing his throat, he said huskily, "If you think I'm going to share my 
afterlife with a bunch of kender, you're crazier than Raistlin. Come on!"
Sturm carefully lifted the grating and shoved it to one side It scraped over the 
floor, causing him to grit his teeth. He heaved himself up easily. Turning, he 
bent down to help Caramon who was having trouble squeezing his body and his 
clanking arsenal through the shaft.
"In the name of Istar, be quiet!" Sturm hissed.
"I'm trying," Caramon muttered, finally climbing over the edge. Sturm gave his 
hand to Goldmoon. Last came Tas, delighted that nobody had done anything 
exciting in his absence.
"We've got to have light," Sturm said.
"Light?" replied a voice as cold and dark as winter midnight. "Yes, let us have 
light."
The darkness fled instantly. The companions saw they were in a huge domed 
chamber that soared hundreds of feet into the air. Cold gray light filtered into 
the room through a crack in the ceiling, shining on a large altar in the center 
of the circular room. On the floor surrounding the altar were masses of jewels, 
coins, and other treasures of the dead city. The jewels did not gleam. The gold 
did not glitter. The dim light illuminated nothing-nothing except a black dragon 
perched on top of the pedestal like some huge beast of prey.
"Feeling betrayed?" the dragon asked in conversational tones.
"The mage betrayed us! Where is he? Serving you?" Sturm cried fiercely, drawing 
his sword and taking a step forward.
"Stand back, foul Knight of Solamnia. Stand back or your magic-user will use his 
magic no more!" The dragon snaked her great neck down and stared at them with 
gleaming red eyes. Then, slowly and delicately, she lifted one clawed foot. 
Lying beneath it, on the pedestal, was Raistlin.
"Raist!" Caramon roared and lunged for the altar.
"Stop, fool!" the dragon hissed. She rested one pointed claw lightly on the 
mage's abdomen. With a great effort, Raistlin moved his head to look at his 
brother with his strange golden eyes. He made a weak gesture and Caramon halted. 
Tanis saw something move on the floor beneath the altar. It was Bupu, huddled 
among the riches, too afraid even to whimper. The Staff of Magius lay next to 
her.
"Move one step closer and I will impale this shriveled human upon the altar with 
my claw."
Caramon's face flushed a deep, ugly red. "Let him go!" he shouted. "Your fight 
is with me."
"My fight is with none of you," the dragon said, lazily moving its wings. 
Raistlin flinched as the dragon's clawed foot shifted slightly, teasingly, 
digging her claw into his flesh. The mage's metallic skin glistened with sweat. 
He drew a deep, ragged breath. "Don't even twitch, mage," the dragon sneered.
We speak the same language, remember? One word of a spell and your friends' 
carcasses will be used to feed the gully dwarves!"
Raistlin's eyes closed as in exhaustion. But Tanis could see the mage's hands 
clench and unclench, and he knew Raistlin was preparing one final spell. It 
would be his last-by the time he cast it the dragon would kill him. But it might 
give Riverwind a chance to reach the Disks and get out alive with Goldmoon
Tanis edged toward the Plainsmen.
"As I was saying," the dragon continued smoothly. "I do not choose to fight any 
of you. How you have escaped my wrath so far, I do not understand. Still, you 
are here. And you return to me that which was stolen. Yes, lady of Que-shu, I 
see you hold the blue crystal staff. Bring it to me."
Tanis hissed one word to Goldmoon, "Stall!" But, looking at her cool marble 
face, he wondered if she heard him or if she even heard the dragon. She seemed 
to be listening to other words, other voices.
"Obey me." The dragon lowered her head menacingly. "Obey me or the mage dies. 
And after him-the knight. And then the half-elf. And so on-one after the other, 
until you lady of Que-shu, are the last survivor. Then you will bring me the 
staff and you will beg me to be merciful."
Goldmoon bowed her head in submission. Gently pushing Riverwind away with her 
hand, she turned to Tanis and clasped the half-elf in a loving embrace. 
"Farewell, my friend," she said loudly, laying her cheek against his. Her voice 
dropped to a whisper. "I know what I must do. I am going to take the staff to 
the dragon and-"
"No!" Tanis said fiercely. "It won't matter. The dragon intends to kill us 
anyway."
"Listen to me!" Goldmoon's nails dug into Tanis's arm. "Stay with Riverwind, 
Tanis. Do not let him try to stop me."
"And if I tried to stop you?" Tanis asked gently, holding Goldmoon close in his 
arms.
"You won't," she said with a sweet, sad smile. "You know that each of us has a 
destiny to fulfill-as the Forestmaster said Riverwind will need you. Farewell, 
my friend."
Goldmoon stepped back, her clear blue eyes on Riverwind as though she would 
memorize every detail to keep with her throughout eternity. Realizing she was 
saying goodbye, he
started to go to her.
"Riverwind," Tanis said softly. "Trust her. She trusted you, all those years. 
She waited while you fought the battles. Now it is you who must wait. This is 
her battle."
Riverwind trembled, then stood still. Tanis could see the veins swell in his 
neck, his jaw muscles clench. The half-elf gripped the Plainsman's arm. The tall 
man didn't even look at him. His eyes were on Goldmoon.
"What is this delay?" the dragon asked. "I grow bored. Come forward."
Goldmoon turned away from Riverwind. She walked past Flint and Tasslehoff. The 
dwarf bowed his head. Tas watched wide-eyed and solemn. Somehow this wasn't as 
exciting as he had imagined. For the first time in his life, the kender felt 
small and helpless and alone. It was a horrible, unpleasant feeling, and he 
thought death might be preferable.
Goldmoon stopped near Caramon, put her hand on his arm. "Don't worry," she said 
to the big warrior, who was staring at his brother in agony, "he'll be all 
right." Caramon choked and nodded. And then Goldmoon neared Sturm. Suddenly, as 
if the horror of the dragon was too overwhelming, she slumped forward. The 
knight caught her and held her.
"Come with me, Sturm," Goldmoon whispered as he put his arm around her. "You 
must vow to do as I command, no matter what happens. Vow on your honor as a 
Knight of Solamnia."
Sturm hesitated. Goldmoon's eyes, calm and clear, met his.
"Vow," she demanded, "or I go alone."
"I vow, lady," he said reverently. "I will obey."
Goldmoon sighed thankfully. "Walk with me. Make no threatening gesture."
Together the barbarian woman of the Plains and the knight walked toward the 
dragon.
Raistlin lay beneath the dragon's claw, his eyes closed, preparing himself 
mentally for the spell that would be his last. But the words to the spell would 
not form out of the turmoil in his mind. He fought to regain control.
I am wasting myself-and for what? Raistlin wondered bitterly. To get these fools 
out of the mess they got themselves into. They will not attack for fear of 
hurting me-even though they fear and despise me. It makes no sense-just as my 
sacrifice makes no sense. Why am I dying for them when I deserve to live more 
than they?
It is not for them you do this, a voice answered him. Raistlin started, trying 
to concentrate, to catch hold of the voice It was a real voice, a familiar 
voice, but he couldn't remember whose it was or where he had heard it. All he 
knew was that it spoke to him in moments of great stress. The closer to death he 
came the louder was the voice.
It is not for them that you make this sacrifice, the voice repeated. It is 
because you cannot bear defeat! Nothing has ever defeated you, not even death 
itself.
Raistlin drew a deep breath and relaxed. He did not understand the words 
completely, just as he could not remember the voice. But now the spell came 
easily to his mind. "Astol arakhkh urn-" he murmured, feeling the magic begin to 
course through his frail body. Then another voice broke his concentration and 
this voice was a living voice speaking to his mind He opened his eyes, turned 
his head slowly, and stared into the chamber at his companions.
The voice came from the woman-barbarian princess of a dead tribe. Raistlin 
looked at Goldmoon as she walked toward him leaning on Sturm's arm. The words in 
her mind had touched Raistlin's mind. He regarded the woman coldly detachedly. 
His distorted vision had forever killed any physical desire the mage might have 
felt when he looked upon human flesh. He could not see the beauty that so 
captivated Tanis and his brother. His hourglass eyes saw her withering and dying 
he felt no closeness, no compassion for her. He knew she pitied him-and he hated 
her for that-but she feared him as well So why, then, was she speaking to him?
She was telling him to wait.
Raistlin understood. She knew what he intended and she was telling him it wasn't 
necessary. She had been chosen. She was the one who was going to make the 
sacrifice.
He watched Goldmoon with his strange golden eyes as she drew nearer and nearer, 
her own eyes on the dragon. He saw Sturm moving solemnly beside her, looking as 
ancient and noble as old Huma himself. What a perfect cat's paw Sturm made, the 
ideal participant in Goldmoon's sacrifice. But why had Riverwind allowed her to 
go? Couldn't he see this coming? Raistlin glanced quickly at Riverwind. Ah, of 
course! The half-elf stood by his side, looking pained and grieved, dropping 
words of wisdom like blood, no doubt. The barbarian was becoming as gullible as 
Caramon. Raistlin flicked his eyes back to Goldmoon.
She stood before the dragon now, her face pale with resolve. Next to her, Sturm 
appeared grave and tortured, gnawed by inner conflict. Goldmoon had probably 
extracted some vow of strict obedience which the knight was honor-bound to 
fulfill. Raistlin's lip curled in a sneer.
The dragon spoke and the mage tensed, ready for action. "Lay the staff down with 
the other remnants of mankind's folly," the dragon commanded Goldmoon, inclining 
her shining, scaled head toward the pile of treasure below the altar.
Goldmoon, overcome with dragonfear, did not move. She could do nothing but stare 
at the monstrous creature, trembling. Sturm, next to her, searched the treasure 
trove with his eyes, looking for the Disks of Mishakal, fighting to control his 
fear of the dragon. Sturm had not known he could be this frightened of anything. 
He repeated the code, "Honor is Life," over and over, and he knew it was pride 
alone that kept him from running away.
Goldmoon saw Sturm's hand shake, she saw the knight's face glistening with 
sweat. Dear goddess, she cried in her soul, grant me courage! Then Sturm nudged 
her. She had to say something, she realized. She had been silent too long.
"What will you give us in return for the miraculous staff?" Goldmoon asked, 
forcing herself to speak calmly, though her throat was parched and her tongue 
felt swollen.
The dragon laughed-shrill, ugly laughter. "What will I give you?" The dragon 
snaked her head to stare at Goldmoon. "Nothing! Nothing at all. I do not deal 
with thieves. Still-" The dragon reared its head back, its red eyes closed to 
slits. Playfully she dug her claw into Raistlin's flesh; the mage flinched, but 
he bore the pain without a murmur. The dragon removed the claw and held it just 
high enough so that they could all see the blood drip from it. "It is not 
inconceivable that Lord Verminaard-the Dragon Highmaster -may view favorably the 
fact that you surrender the staff. He may even be inclined to mercy-he is a 
cleric and they have strange values. But know this, Lady of Que-shu, Lord 
Verminaard does not need your friends. Give up the staff now and they will be 
spared. Force me to take it-and they will die. The mage first of
 
 
nl!
 
Goldmoon, her spirit seemingly broken, slumped in defeat.
Sturm moved close to her, appearing to console her.
"I have found the Disks," he whispered harshly. He grasped her arm, feeling her 
shivering with fear. "Are you resolved on this course of action, my lady?" he 
asked softly.
Goldmoon bowed her head. She was deathly pale but composed and calm. Tendrils of 
her fine silver-golden hair had escaped from the binding and fell around her 
face, hiding her expression from the dragon. Though she appeared defeated she 
looked up at Sturm and smiled. There was both peace and sorrow in her smile, 
much like the smile on the marble goddess.
She did not speak but Sturm had his answer. He bowed in submission.
"May my courage be equal to yours, lady" he said. "I will not fail you."
"Farewell, knight. Tell Riverwind-" Goldmoon faltered, blinking her eyes as 
tears filled them. Fearing her resolve might yet break, she swallowed her words 
and turned to face the dragon as the voice of Mishakal filled her being, 
answering her prayer. Present the staff boldly! Goldmoon, imbued with an inner 
strength, raised the blue crystal staff.
"We do not choose to surrender!" Goldmoon shouted, her voice echoing throughout 
the chamber. Moving swiftly, before the startled dragon could react. Chieftain's 
Daughter swung her staff one last time, striking the clawed foot poised above 
Raistlin.
The staff made a low ringing sound as it struck the dragon- then it shattered. A 
burst of pure, radiant blue light beamed from the broken staff. The light grew 
brighter, spreading out in concentric waves, engulfing the dragon.
Khisanth screamed in rage. The dragon was injured, terribly, mortally. She 
lashed out with her tail, flung her head about, and fought to escape the burning 
blue flame. She wanted nothing except to kill those that dared inflict such 
pain, but the intense blue fire relentlessly consumed her-as it consumed 
Goldmoon.
The Chieftain's Daughter had not dropped the staff when it shattered. She held 
on to the fragmented end, watching as the light grew, keeping it as close to the 
dragon as she could. When the blue light touched her hands she felt intense, 
burning pain. Staggering, she fell to her knees, still clutching the staff. She 
heard the dragon shrieking and roaring above her, then she could hear nothing 
but the ringing of the staff. The pain grew so horrible it was no longer a part 
of her, and she was overcome with a great weariness. I will sleep, she thought. 
I will sleep and when I waken, I will be where I truly belong. . . .
Sturm saw the blue light slowly destroy the dragon, then it spread along the 
staff to Goldmoon. He heard the ringing sound grow louder and louder until it 
drowned out even the screams of the dying dragon. Sturm took a step toward 
Goldmoon, thinking to wrench the splintered staff from her hand and drag her 
clear of the deadly blue flame . . . but even as he approached, he knew he could 
not save her.
Half-blinded by the light and deafened by the sound, the knight realized that it 
would take all his strength and courage to fulfill his oath-to retrieve the 
Disks. He tore his gaze from Goldmoon, whose face was twisted in agony and whose 
flesh was withering in the fire. Gritting his teeth against the pain in his 
head, he staggered toward the treasure pile where he had seen the Disks-hundreds 
of thin sheets of platinum bound together by a single ring through the top. 
Reaching down, he lifted them, amazed at their lightness. Then his heart almost 
stopped beating when a bloody hand reached up from the pile of treasure and 
grasped his wrist.
"Help me!"
He could not hear the voice so much as sense the thought.
Grasping Raistlin's hand, he pulled the mage to his feet. Blood was visible 
through the red of Raistlin's robe, but he did not appear to be seriously 
injured-at least he could stand. But could he walk? Sturm needed help. He 
wondered where the others were; he couldn't see them in the brilliance. Suddenly 
Caramon loomed up by his side, his armor gleaming in the blue flame.
Raistlin clutched at him. "Help me find the spellbook!" he hissed.
"Who cares about that?" Caramon roared, reaching for his brother. "I'll get you 
out of here!"
Raistlin's mouth twisted so in fury and frustration that he could not speak. He 
dropped to his knees and began to search frantically through the pile of 
treasure. Caramon tried to draw him away, but Raistlin shoved him back with his 
frail hand.
And still the ringing sound pierced their ears. Sturm felt tears of pain trickle 
down his cheeks. Suddenly something crashed to the floor in front of the knight. 
The chamber ceiling was collapsing! The entire building shook around them, the 
ringing sound causing the pillars to tremble and the walls to crack.
Then the ringing died-and with it the dragon. Khisanth had vanished, leaving 
behind nothing but a pile of smoldering ash.
Sturm gasped in relief but not for long. As soon as the ringing sound ended, he 
could hear the sounds of the palace caving in, the cracking of the ceiling and 
the thuds and explosive crashes as huge stone slabs struck the floor. Then, out 
of the dust and noise, Tanis appeared before him. Blood trickled from a cut on 
the half-elf's cheek. Sturm grabbed his friend and pulled him to the altar as 
another chunk of ceiling plummeted near them.
"The whole city is collapsing!" Sturm yelled. "How do we get out?"
Tanis shook his head. "The only way I know is back the way we came, through that 
tunnel," he shouted. He ducked as another piece of ceiling crashed onto the 
empty altar.
"That'll be a death trap! There must be another way!"
"We'll find it," Tanis said firmly. He peered through the billowing dust. "Where 
are the others?" he asked. Then, turning, he saw Raistlin and Caramon. Tanis 
stared in horror and disgust at the mage scavenging among the treasure. Then he 
saw a small figure tugging Raistlin's sleeve. Bupu! Tanis made a lunge for her, 
nearly scaring the gully dwarf witless. She shrank back against Raistlin with a 
startled scream.
"We've got to get out of here!" Tanis roared. He grabbed hold of Raistlin's 
robes and dragged the slender young man to his feet. "Stop looting and get that 
gully dwarf of yours to show us the way out, or so help me, you'll die by my 
hands!"
Raistlin's thin lips parted a ghastly smile as Tanis flung him back against the 
altar. Bupu shrieked. "Cornel We go! I know way!"
"Raist," Caramon begged, "you can't find it! You'll die if we don't get out of 
here!"
"Very well," the mage snarled. He lifted the Staff of Magius from the altar and 
stood up, reaching out his arm for his brother's aid. "Bupu, show us the way," 
he commanded.
"Raistlin, light your staff so we can follow you." Tanis ordered. "I'm going to 
find the others."
"Over there," Caramon said grimly. "You're going to need help with the 
Plainsman."
Tanis flung his arm over his face as more stone fell, then jumped across the 
rubble. He found Riverwind collapsed where Goldmoon had been standing, Flint and 
Tasslehoff trying to get the Plainsman to his feet. There was nothing there now 
except a large area of blackened stone. Goldmoon had been totally consumed in 
the flames.
"Is he alive?" Tanis shouted.
"Yes!" Tas answered, his voice carrying shrilly above the noise. "But he won't 
move!"
"I'll talk to him," Tanis said. "Follow the others. We'll be there in a moment. 
Go on!"
Tasslehoff hesitated, but Flint, after a glance at Tanis's face, put his hand on 
the kender's arm. Snuffling, Tas turned and began running through the rubble 
with the dwarf.
Tanis knelt beside Riverwind, then the half-elf glanced up as Sturm appeared out 
of the gloom. "Go on," Tanis said. "You're in command now."
Sturm hesitated. A column toppled over near them, showering them in rock dust. 
Tanis flung his body across Riverwind's. "Go on!" he yelled at Sturm. "I'm 
holding you responsible!" Sturm drew a breath, laid a hand on Tanis's shoulder, 
then ran toward the light from Raistlin's staff.
The knight found the others huddled in a narrow hallway. The arched ceiling 
above them seemed to be holding together, but Sturm could hear thudding sounds 
above. The ground shook beneath their feet and little rivulets of water were 
beginning to seep through new cracks in the walls.
"Where's Tanis?" Caramon asked.
"He'll be along," Stunn said harshly. "We'll wait ... a few moments at least." 
He did not mention that he would wait until waiting had dissolved into death.
There was a shattering crack. Water began to gush through the wall, flooding the 
floor. Sturm was about to order the others out when a figure emerged from the 
collapsing doorway. It was Riverwind, carrying Tanis's inert body in his arms.
"What happened?" Sturm leaped forward, his throat constricting. "He's not-"
"He stayed with me," Riverwind said softly. "I told him to leave me. I wanted to 
die-there with her. Then-a slab of stone. He never saw it-"
"I'll carry him," Caramon said.
"No!" Riverwind glared at the big warrior. His arms gripped Tanis's body 
tighter. "I will carry him. We must go."
"Yes! This way! We go now!" urged the gully dwarf. She led them out of the city 
that was dying a second time. They emerged from the dragon's lair into the 
plaza, which was rapidly being submerged as Newsea poured into the crumbling 
cavern. The companions waded across, holding onto each other to keep from being 
swept away in the vicious current. Howling gully dwarves swarmed everywhere in a 
state of wild confusion, some getting caught in the current, others climbing up 
into the top stories of shaking buildings, still others dashing down the 
streets.
Sturm could think of only one way out. "Go east!" he shouted, gesturing down the 
broad street that led to the waterfall. He looked anxiously at Riverwind. The 
dazed Plainsman seemed oblivious to the commotion around him. Tanis was 
unconscious-maybe dead. Fear chilled Sturm's blood, but he forcibly suppressed 
all emotions. The knight ran ahead, catching up with the twins.
"Our only chance is the lift!" he yelled.
Caramon nodded slowly. "It will mean a fight."
"Yes, damn it!" said Sturm in exasperation, envisioning all of the draconians 
trying to leave this stricken city. "It will mean a fight! You got any better 
ideas?"
Caramon shook his head.
At a corner, Sturm waited to herd his limping, exhausted band in the right 
direction. Peering through the dust and mist, he could see the lift ahead of 
them. It was, as he had foreseen, surrounded by a dark, writhing mass of 
draconians. Fortunately, they were all intent on escape. They had to strike 
quickly, Sturm knew, to catch the creatures off guard. Timing was critical. He 
caught hold of the kender as Tas scurried past.
"Tas!" he yelled. "We're going up the lift!"
Tasslehoff nodded to show he understood, then made a face to imitate a draconian 
and slashed his hand across his throat.
"When we get near," Sturm shouted, "sneak around to where you can see the pot 
descending. When it starts to come down, signal me. We'll attack when it reaches 
the ground."
Tasslehoff's topknot bobbed.
"Tell Flint!" Sturm finished, his voice nearly gone from shouting. Tas nodded 
again and raced off to find the dwarf. Sturm straightened his aching back with a 
sigh and continued on down the street. He could see about twenty or twenty-five 
draconians gathered in the courtyard, watching for the pot that would carry them 
to safety to begin its descent. Sturm imagined the confusion up on the top- 
draconians whipping and bullying the panic-stricken gully dwarves, forcing them 
into the lift. He hoped the confusion would last.
Sturm saw the brothers in the shadows at the edge of the courtyard. He joined 
them, glancing up nervously as a stone slab crashed down behind him. As 
Riverwind staggered out of the mist and dust, Sturm started to help him, but the 
Plainsman looked at the knight as if he had never seen him before in his life.
"Bring Tanis over here," Sturm said. "You can lay him down and rest a moment. 
We're going up in the lift and we'll have a fight on our hands. Wait here. When 
we signal-"
"Do what you must," Riverwind interrupted coldly. He laid Tanis's body gently on 
the ground and slumped down beside him, burying his face in his hands.
Sturm hesitated. He started to kneel down by Tanis as Flint came to stand by his 
side.
"Go on. I'll check on him," the dwarf offered.
Sturm nodded thankfully. He saw Tasslehoff skitter across the courtyard and into 
a doorway. Looking toward the lift, he saw the draconians yelling and cursing 
into the mist as if they could hurry the pot's descent.
Flint poked Sturm in the ribs. "How are we going to fight all of them?" he 
shouted.
"We're not. You're going to stay here with Riverwind and Tanis" Sturm said. 
"Caramon and I can handle this," he added wishing he believed it himself.
"And I," whispered the mage. "I still have my spells." The knight did not 
answer. He distrusted magic and he distrusted Raistlin. Still, he had no 
choice-Caramon would not go into battle without his brother by his side. Tugging 
at his moustaches, Sturm restlessly loosened his sword. Caramon flexed his arms, 
clenching and unclenching his huge hands. Raistlin, his eyes closed, was lost in 
concentration. Bupu, hidden in a niche in the wall behind him, watched 
everything with wide, frightened eyes.
The pot swung into view, gully dwarves hanging from its sides. As Sturm hoped, 
the draconians on the ground began to fight among themselves, none wanting to be 
left behind. Their panic increased as great cracks ran through the pavement 
toward them. Water rose through the cracks. The city of Xak Tsaroth would soon 
be lying at the bottom of Newsea.
As the pot touched ground, the gully dwarves scurried over the sides and fled. 
The draconians clambered in, hitting and shoving each other.
"Now!" the knight yelled.
"Get out of my way!" the mage hissed. Pulling a handful of sand from one of his 
pouches, he sprinkled it on the ground and whispered, "Ast tasark sinuralan 
krynaw," moving his right hand in an arc in the direction of the draconians. 
First one, then a few more blinked their eyes and slumped to the ground in 
sleep, but others remained standing, glancing around in alarm. The mage ducked 
back into the doorway and, seeing nothing, the draconians turned back to the 
lift, stepping on the bodies of their sleeping comrades in their frantic rush. 
Raistlin leaned against the wall, closing his eyes wearily.
"How many?" he asked.
"Only about six." Caramon drew his sword from its sheath
"Just get in the damn pot!" Sturm yelled. "We'll come back for Tanis when the 
fight's ended."
Under cover of the mist, the two warriors- swords drawn- covered the distance to 
the draconians within a few heartbeats, Raistlin stumbling behind. Sturm shouted 
his battle-cry. At the sound, the draconians spun around in alarm.
And Riverwind raised his head.
The sound of battle penetrated Riverwind's fog of despair. The Plainsman saw 
Goldmoon before him, dying in the blue flame. The dead expression left his face, 
replaced by a ferocity so bestial and terrifying that Bupu, still hiding in the 
doorway, screamed in alarm. Riverwind leaped to his feet. He didn't even draw 
his sword but charged forward, empty-handed. He tore into the ranks of the 
scrambling draconians like a starving panther and began to kill. He killed with 
his bare hands, twisting, choking, gouging. Draconians stabbed at him with their 
swords; soon his leather tunic was soaked with blood. Yet he never stopped 
moving among them, never stopped killing. His face was that of a madman. The 
draconians in Riverwind's path saw death in his eyes, and they also saw that 
their weapons had no effect. One broke and ran and, soon, another.
Sturm, finishing an opponent, looked up grimly, prepared to find six more coming 
at him. Instead he saw the enemy fleeing for their lives into the mist. 
Riverwind, covered with blood, collapsed onto the ground.
"The lift!" The mage pointed. It was hovering about two feet off the ground and 
starting to move upward. There were gully dwarves in the top pot coming down.
"Stop it!" Sturm yelled. Tasslehoff raced from his hiding place and leaped for 
the edge. He clung, his feet dangling, trying desperately to keep the empty pot 
from rising. "Caramon! Hang onto it!" Sturm ordered the warrior. ''I'll get 
Tanis!"
"I can hold it, but not for long." The big man grunted, grasping onto the edge 
and digging his feet into the ground. He dragged the lift to a halt. Tasslehoff 
climbed inside, hoping his small body might add ballast.
Sturm ran back swiftly to Tanis. Flint was beside him, his axe in his hands.
"He's alive!" the dwarf called as the knight approached.
Sturm paused a moment to thank some god, somewhere, then he and Flint lifted the 
unconscious half-elf and carried him to the pot. They placed him inside, then 
returned for
Riverwind. It took four of them to get River-wind's bloody body into the lift. 
Tas tried without much success to stanch the wounds with one of his 
handkerchiefs.
"Hurry!" Caramon gasped. Despite all his efforts, the pot was rising slowly.
"Get in!" Sturm ordered Raistlin.
The mage glanced at him coldly and ran back into the mist. Within moments, he 
reappeared, carrying Bupu in his arms.
The knight grabbed the trembling gully dwarf and flung her into the lift. Bupu, 
whimpering, crouched on the bottom, still clutching her bag to her chest. 
Raistlin climbed over the side.
The pot continued to rise, Caramon's arms were nearly pulled out of their 
sockets.
"Go on," Sturm ordered Caramon, the knight being the last to leave the field of 
battle as usual. Caramon knew better than to argue. He heaved himself up, nearly 
tipping the pot over.
Flint and Raistlin dragged him in. Without Caramon holding it, the pot lunged 
upward rapidly. Sturm caught hold of it with both hands and clung to the side as 
it rose into the air. After two or three tries, he managed to swing a leg over 
the edge and climbed in with Caramon's help.
The knight knelt down beside Tanis and was relieved beyond expression to see the 
half-elf stir and moan. Sturm grasped the half-elf and held him close. "You have 
no idea how glad I am you're back!" the knight said, his voice husky.
"Riverwind-" Tanis murmured groggily.
"He's here. He saved your life. He saved all our lives." Sturm talked rapidly, 
almost incoherently. "We're in the lift, going up. The city's destroyed. Where 
are you hurt?"
"Broken ribs. feels like." Wincing in pain, Tanis looked over at Riverwind, 
still conscious, despite his wounds. "Poor man," Tanis said softly. "Goldmoon. I 
saw her die, Sturm. There was nothing I could do."
Sturm helped the half-elf rise to his feet. "We have the Disks," the knight said 
firmly. "It was what she wanted, what she fought for. They're in my pack. Are 
you sure you can stand?"
"Yes," Tanis said. He drew a ragged, painful breath. "We have the Disks, 
whatever good that will do us."
They were interrupted by the shrill screams as the second pot, gully dwarves 
flying like banners, went past them. The gully dwarves shook their fists and 
cursed the companions. Bupu laughed, then she stood up, looking at Raistlin in 
concern. The mage leaned wearily against the side of the pot, his lips moving 
silently, calling to mind another spell.
Sturm peered up through the mist. "I wonder how many will be at the top?" he 
asked.
Tanis, too, glanced up. "Most have fled, I hope," he said. He caught his breath 
sharply and clutched at his ribs.
There was a sudden lurch. The pot fell about a foot, stopped with a jolt, then 
slowly started to rise again. The companions looked at each other in alarm.
"The mechanism-"
"It's either starting to collapse or the draconians have recognized us and are 
trying to destroy it," Tanis said.
"There's nothing we can do," Sturm said in bitter frustration. He stared down at 
the pack containing the Disks, which lay at his feet. "Except pray to these 
gods-"
The pot lurched and dropped again. For a moment it hung, suspended, swaying in 
the mist-shrouded air. Then it started up, moving slowly, shuddering. The 
companions could see the edge of the rock ledge and the opening above them. The 
pot rose inch by creaking inch, each of those inside mentally supporting every 
link of the chain that was carrying them up to-
"Draconians!" cried Tas shrilly, pointing up.
Two draconians stared down at them. As the pot crept closer and closer, Tanis 
saw the draconians crouch, ready to jump.
"They're going to leap down here! The pot won't hold!" Flint rumbled. "We'll 
crash!"
"That may be their intent," Tanis said. "They have wings."
"Stand back," Raistlin said, staggering to his feet.
"Raist, don't!" His brother caught hold of him. "You're too weak."
"I have strength for one more spell," the mage whispered.
"But it may not work. If they see I am magi, they may be able to resist my 
magic."
"Hide behind Caramon's shield," Tanis said swiftly. The big man thrust his body 
and his shield in front of his brother.
The mist swirled around them, concealing them from draconian eyes but also 
preventing them from seeing the draconians. The pot rose, inch by inch, the 
chain creaking and lurching upwards. Raistlin stood poised behind Caramon's 
shield, his strange eyes staring, waiting for the mists to part.
Cool air touched Tanis's cheek. A breeze swirled the mists apart, just for an 
instant. The draconians were so close they could have almost touched them! The 
draconians saw them at the same time. One spread its wings and floated down 
toward the pot, sword in hand, shrieking in triumph.
Raistlin spoke. Caramon moved his shield and the mage spread his thin fingers. A 
ball of white shot from his hands, hitting the draconian squarely in the chest. 
The ball exploded, covering the creature in sticky webbing. Its cry of triumph 
changed to a horrifying shriek as the webbing tangled its wings. It plummeted 
into the mist, its body striking the edge of the iron pot as it fell. The pot 
began to rock and sway.
"There's still one more!" Raistlin gasped, sinking to his knees. "Hold me up, 
Caramon, help me stand!" The mage began to cough violently, blood trickling from 
his mouth.
"Raist!" his brother pleaded, dropping his shield and catching his fainting 
twin. "Stop! There's nothing you can do. You'll kill yourself!"
A look of command was enough. The warrior supported his brother as the mage 
began to speak again the eerie-sounding language of magic.
The remaining draconian hesitated, still hearing the yells of its fallen 
companion. It knew the human was a magic-user. It also knew that it could 
probably resist the magic. But this human facing it was like no human magic-user 
it had ever encountered. The humans body seemed weak practically to the point of 
death, but a strong aura of power surrounded him.
The mage raised his hand, pointing at the creature. The draconian cast one last, 
vicious glance at the companions, then turned and fled. Raistlin, unconscious, 
sank in his brother's arms as the pot completed its journey to the surface.
 
 
22
Bupu's gift.
An ominous sight.
 
Just as they pulled Riverwind out of the lift, a sharp tremor shook the floor of 
the Hall of the Ancestors. The companions, dragging Riverwind with them, 
scrambled back as the floor cracked. The floor gave way and tumbled down, 
carrying the great wheel and the iron pots down into the mist below.
"This whole place is caving in!" Caramon shouted in alarm, holding his brother 
in his arms.
"Run! Back to the temple of Mishakal." Tanis gasped with pain.
"Trusting in the gods again, huh?" Flint said. Tanis could not answer.
Sturm took hold of Riverwind's arms and started to lift him but the Plainsman 
shook his head and shoved him away. "My wounds are not serious. I can manage. 
Leave me." He remained slumped on the shattered floor. Tanis glanced 
questioningly at Sturm. The knight shrugged. The Solamnic Knights considered 
suicide noble and honorable. The elves considered it blasphemy.
The half-elf took hold of the Plainsman's long dark hair and jerked his head 
back so that the startled man was forced to look into Tanis's eyes. "Go ahead. 
Lie down and die!" Tanis said through clenched teeth. "Shame your chieftain! She 
at least had the courage to fight!"
Riverwind's eyes smoldered. He caught hold of Tanis's wrist and flung the 
half-elf away from him with such force that Tanis staggered into the wall, 
groaning in agony. The Plainsman stood up, staring at Tanis with hatred. Then he 
turned and stumbled down the shaking corridor, his head bent.
Sturm helped Tanis to his feet, the half-elf dizzy from the pain. They followed 
the others as fast as they could. The floor tilted crazily. When Sturm slipped, 
they crashed against a wall. A sarcophagus slid out into the hallway, spilling 
its grisly contents. A skull rolled over by Tanis's feet, startling the half-elf 
who fell to his knees. He feared he might faint from the pain.
"Go," he tried to say to Sturm, but he couldn't talk The knight picked him up 
and together they staggered on through the dust-choked corridor. At the foot of 
the stairs called the Paths of the Dead, they found Tasslehoff waiting.
"The others?" Sturm gasped, coughing in the dust.
"They've already gone up to the temple," Tasslehoff said. "Caramon told me to 
wait here for you. Flint says the temple's safe, dwarven stonework, you know. 
Raistlin's conscious. He said it was safe, too. Something about being held in 
the palm of the goddess. Riverwind's there. He glared at me. I think he could 
have killed me! But he made it up the stairs-"
"All right!" Tanis said to stop the prattling. "Enough! Put me down Sturm. I've 
got to rest a minute or I'll pass out. Take Tas and i'll meet you upstairs. Go 
on, damn it!"
Sturm grabbed Tasslehoff by the collar and dragged him up stairs. Tanis sank 
back. Sweat chilled his body; every breath was agony. Suddenly the remainder of 
the floor in the Hall of the Ancestors collapsed with a loud snapping noise. The 
Temple of Mishakal trembled and shook. Tanis staggered to his feet, then he 
paused a moment. Faintly, behind him, he could now hear the low, thundering 
rumble of water surging. Newsea had claimed Xak Tsaroth. The city that was dead 
was now buried.
Tanis emerged slowly from the stairwell into the circular room at the top. The 
climb had been a nightmare, each new step a miracle. The chamber was blessedly 
quiet, the only sound the harsh breathing of his friends who had made it that 
far and collapsed. He, too, could go no farther.
The half-elf glanced around to make certain the others were all right. Sturm had 
set down the pack containing the Disks and was slumped against a wall. Raistlin 
lay on a bench, his eyes closed, his breathing quick and shallow. Of course, 
Caramon sat beside him, his face dark with anxiety. Tasslehoff sat at the bottom 
of the pedestal, staring up at the top. Flint leaned against the doors, too 
tired to grumble.
"Where's Riverwind?" Tanis asked. He saw Caramon and Sturm exchange glances, 
then lower their eyes. Tanis staggered up, anger defeating his pain. Sturm rose 
and blocked his path.
"It's his decision, Tanis. It is the way of his people as it is the way of 
mine."
Tanis shoved the knight aside and walked toward the double doors. Flint did not 
move.
"Get out of my way," the half-elf said, his voice shaking. Flint looked up; the 
lines of grief and sorrow etched by a hundred years softened the dwarf's 
scowling expression. Tanis saw in Flint's eyes the accumulated wisdom that had 
drawn an unhappy half-human, half-elven boy into a strange and lasting 
friendship with a dwarf.
"Sit down, lad," Flint said in a gentle voice, as if he, too, remembered their 
origins. "If your elven head cannot understand, then listen to your human heart 
for once."
Tanis shut his eyes, tears stinging his lids. Then he heard a great cry from 
inside the temple-Riverwind. Tanis thrust the dwarf aside and pushed open the 
huge golden doors. Striding rapidly, ignoring his pain, he threw open the second 
set of doors and entered the chamber of Mishakal. Once again he felt peace and 
tranquility flood over him, but now the feeings only added to his anger over 
what had happened.
"I cannot believe in you!" Tanis cried. "What kind of gods are you, that you 
demand a human sacrifice? You are the same gods who brought the Cataclysm down 
on man. All right-so you're powerful! Now leave us alone! We don't need you'" 
The half-elf wept. Through his tears, he could see that Riverwind sword in hand, 
knelt before the statue. Tanis stumbled forward, hoping to prevent the act of 
self-destruction. Tanis rounded the base of the statue and stopped, stunned. For 
a minute he refused to believe his own sense of sight; perhaps grief and pain 
were playing tricks on his mind. He lifted his eyes to the statue's beautiful, 
calm face and steadied his reeling confused senses. Then he looked again.
Goldmoon lay there, sound asleep, her breast rising and falling with the rhythm 
of her quiet breathing. Her silver-gold hair had come loose from its braid and 
drifted around her face in the gentle wind that filled the chamber with the 
fragrance of spring. The staff was once again part of the marble statue but 
Tanis saw that now Goldmoon wore around her throat the necklace that had once 
adorned the statue.
I am a true cleric now," Goldmoon said softly. "I am a disciple of Mishakal and, 
though I have much to learn, I have the power of my faith. Above all else, I am 
a healer. I bring the gift of healing back into the land."
Reaching out her hand, Goldmoon touched Tanis on the forehead, whispering a 
prayer to Mishakal. The half-elf felt peace and strength flow through his body, 
cleansing his spirit and healing his wounds.
"We've got a cleric, now," Flint said, "and that'll come in handy. But from what 
we hear, this Lord Verminaard's a cleric too, and a powerful one at that. We may 
have found the ancient gods of good, but he found the ancient gods of evil a lot 
sooner. I don't see how these Disks are going to help much against hordes of 
dragons."
"You are right," Goldmoon said softly. "I am not a warrior. I am a healer. I do 
not have the power to unite the peoples of our world to fight this evil and 
restore the balance. My duty is to find the person who has the strength and the 
wisdom for this task. I am to give the Disks of Mishakal to that person."
The companions were silent for long moments. Then . . .
"We must leave here, Tanis," Raistlin hissed from out of the shadows of the 
Temple where he stood, staring out the door into the courtyard. "Listen."
Horns. They could all hear the shrill braying of many, many horns, carried on 
the north wind.
"The armies," said Tanis softly. "War has begun."
The companions fled Xak Tsaroth into the twilight. They traveled west, toward 
the mountains. The air was cold with the bite of early winter. Dead leaves, 
blown by chill winds, flew past their faces. They decided to head for Solace, 
planning to stock up on supplies and gather what information they could before 
determining where to go in their search for a leader. Tanis could foresee 
arguments along those lines. Already Sturm was talking of Solamnia. Goldmoon 
mentioned Haven, while Tanis himself was thinking the Disks of Mishakal would be 
safest in the elven kingdom.
Discussing vague plans, they traveled on well into the night. They saw no 
draconians and supposed that those escaping Xak Tsaroth had traveled north to 
join up with the armies of this Lord Verminaard, Dragon Highmaster. The silver 
moon rose, then the red. The companions climbed high, the sound of the horns 
driving them on past the point of exhaustion. They made camp on the summit of 
the mountain. After eating a cheerless supper, not daring to light a fire, they 
set the watch, then slept.
Raistlin woke in the cold gray hour before dawn. He had heard something. Had he 
been dreaming? No, there it was again-the sound of someone crying. Goldmoon, the 
mage thought irritably, and started to lie back down. Then he saw Bupu, curled 
in a ball of misery, blubbering into a blanket.
Raistlin glanced around. The others were asleep except for Flint standing watch 
on the other side of camp. The dwarf had apparently heard nothing, and he wasn't 
looking in Raistlin's direction. The mage stood up and padded softly over. 
Kneeling down beside the gully dwarf, he laid his hand on her shoulder "What is 
it, little one?"
Bupu rolled over to face him. Her eyes were red her nose swollen. Tears streaked 
down her dirty face. She snuffled and wiped her hand across her nose. "I don't 
want to leave you I want to go with you," she said brokenly, "but-oh-I will miss 
my people!" Sobbing, she buried her face in her hands.
A look of infinite tenderness touched Raistlin's face a look no one in his world 
would ever see. He reached out and stroked Bupu s coarse hair, knowing what it 
felt like to be weak and miserable, an object of ridicule and pity.
"Bupu," he said, "you have been a good and true friend to me. You saved my life 
and the lives of those I care about. Now you will do one last thing for me, 
little one. Go back I must travel roads that will be dark and dangerous before 
the end of my long journey. I cannot ask you to go with me "
Bupu lifted her head, her eyes brightening. Then a shadow tell across her face. 
"But you will be unhappy without me."
No, Raistlin said, smiling, "My happiness will lie in knowing you are safely 
back with your people."
"You sure?" Bupu asked anxiously.
"I am sure," Raistlin answered.
"Then I go." Bupu stood up. "But first, you take gift" She began to rummage 
around in her bag.
"No, little one," Raistlin began, remembering the dead lizard thats not 
necessary-" The words caught in his throat as he watched Bupu pull from her 
bag-a book! He stared in amazement, seeing the pale light of the chill morning 
illuminate silver runes on a night-blue leather binding.
Raistlin reached out a trembling hand. "The spellbook of Fistandantilus!" he 
breathed.
"You like?" Bupu said shyly.
"Yes little one!" Raistlin took the precious object in his hands and held it 
lovingly, stroking the leather. "Where-"
"I take from dragon," Bupu said, "when blue light shine. I glad you like. Now, I 
go. Find Highbulp Phudge I, the great" She slung her bag over her shoulder. Then 
she stopped and turned. "That cough-you sure you not want lizard cure?"
"No, thank you, little one," Raistlin said, rising.
Bupu looked at him sadly, then-greatly daring-she caught his hand in hers and 
kissed it swiftly. She turned away, her head bowed, sobbing bitterly.
Raistlin stepped forward. He laid his hand on her head. If I have any power at 
all, Great One, he said inside himself, power that has not yet been revealed to 
me, grant that this little one goes through her life in safety and happiness.
"Farewell, Bupu," he said softly.
She stared at him with wide, adoring eyes, then turned and ran off as fast as 
her floppy shoes would carry her.
"What was all that about?" Flint said, stumping over from the other side of the 
camp. "Oh," he added, seeing Bupu running off. "So you got rid of your pet gully 
dwarf."
Raistlin did not answer, but simply stared at Flint with a malevolence that made 
the dwarf shiver and walk hurriedly away.
The mage held the spellbook in his hands, admiring it. He longed to open it and 
revel in its treasures, but he knew that long weeks of study lay ahead of him 
before he could even read the new spells, much less acquire them. And with the 
spells would come more power! He sighed in ecstasy and hugged the book to his 
thin chest. Then he slipped it swiftly into his pack with his own spellbook. The 
others would be waking soon-let them wonder how he got the book.
Raistlin stood up, glancing out to the west, to his homeland, where the sky was 
brightening with the early morning sun.
Suddenly he stiffened. Then, dropping his pack, he ran across the camp and knelt 
down beside the half-elf.
"Tanis!" Raistlin hissed. "Wake up!"
Tanis woke and grabbed his dagger. "What-"
Raistlin pointed to the west.
Tanis blinked, trying to focus his sleep-scummed eyes. The view from the top of 
the mountain where they were camped was magnificent. He could see the tall trees 
give way to the grassy Plains. And beyond the Plains, snaking up into the sky-
"No!" Tanis choked. He gripped the mage. "No, it can't be!"
"Yes," Raistlin whispered. "Solace is burning."
 
 
1
Night of the dragons.
 
Tika wrung the rag out in the pail and watched, dully, as the water turned 
black. She threw the rag down on the bar and started to lift the bucket to carry 
it back to the kitchen to draw more water. Then she thought, why bother! Picking 
up the rag, she began to mop the tables again. When she thought Otik wasn't 
watching, she wiped her eyes with her apron.
But Otik was watching. His pudgy hands took hold of Tika's shoulders and gently 
turned her around. Tika gave a choking sob and laid her head on his shoulder.
"I'm sorry," Tika sobbed, "but I can't get this clean!"
Otik knew, of course, that this wasn't the real reason the girl was weeping, but 
it came close. He patted her back gently. "I know, I know, child. Don't cry. I 
understand."
"It's this damn soot!" Tika wailed. "It covers everything with black and every 
day I scrub it up and the next day it's back. They keep burning and burning!"
"Don't worry about it, Tika," Otik said, stroking her hair. "Be thankful the 
Inn's in one piece"
"Be thankful!" Tika pushed away from him, her face flushed. "No! I wish it had 
burned like everything else in Solace, then they wouldn't come in here! I wish 
it had burned! I wish it had
burned!" Tika sank down at the table, sobbing uncontrollably. Otik hovered 
around her.
"I know, my dear, I know," he repeated, smoothing the puffy sleeves of the 
blouse Tika had taken such pride in keeping clean and white. Now it was dingy 
and covered with soot, like everything in the ravaged town.
The attack on Solace had come without warning. Even when the first pitiable 
refugees began to trickle into the town from the north, telling horror stories 
of huge, winged monsters,
Hederick, the High Theocrat, assured the people of Solace that they were safe, 
their town would be spared. And the people believed him because they wanted to 
believe him.
And then came the night of the dragons.
The Inn was crowded that night, one of the few places people could go and not be 
reminded of the storm clouds hanging low in the northern skies. The fire burned 
brightly, the ale was rich,
the spiced potatoes were delicious. Yet, even here, the outside world intruded: 
everyone talked loudly and fearfully of war.
Hederick's words soothed their fearful hearts.
"We are not like these reckless fools to the north who made the mistake of 
defying the might of the Dragon Highlords," he called out, standing on a chair 
to be heard. "Lord Verminaard has personally assured the Council of Highseekers 
in Haven that he wants only peace. He seeks permission to move his armies 
through our town so that he may conquer the elflands to the south. And I say 
more power to him!"
Hederick paused for scattered cheering and applause.
"We have tolerated the elves in Qualinesti too long. I say, let this Verminaard 
drive them back to Silvanost or wherever they came from! In fact"Hederick 
warmed to his subject"some of you young men might consider joining the armies 
of this great lord. And he is a great lord! I have met him! He is a true cleric! 
I have seen the miracles he has performed! We will enter a new age under his 
leadership! We will drive the elves, dwarves, and other foreigners from our land 
and"
There came a low, dull, roaring sound, like the gathering of the waters of a 
mighty ocean. Silence fell abruptly. Everyone listened, puzzled, trying to 
figure out what might make such a noise. Hederick, aware that he had lost his 
audience, glanced around in irritation. The roaring sound grew louder and 
louder, coming closer. Suddenly the Inn was plunged into thick, smothering 
darkness. A few people screamed. Most ran for the windows, trying to peer out 
the few clear panes scattered among the colored glass.
"Go down and find out what's going on," someone said.
"It's so blasted dark I can't see the stairs," someone else muttered.
And then it was no longer dark.
Flames exploded outside the Inn. A wave of heat hit the building with force 
enough to shatter windows, showering those inside with glass. The mighty 
vallenwood treewhich no storm on Krynn had ever stirredbegan to sway and rock 
from the blast. The Inn tilted. Tables scooted sideways, benches slid down the 
floor to slam up against the wall. Hederick lost his balance and tumbled off his 
chair. Hot coals spewed from the fireplace as oil lamps from the ceiling and 
candles from the tables started small fires.
A high-pitched shriek rose above the noise and confusion the scream of some 
living creaturea scream filled with hatred and cruelty. The roaring noise 
passed over the Inn. There was a rush of wind, then the darkness lifted as a 
wall of flame sprang up to the south.
Tika dropped a tray of mugs to the floor as she grabbed desperately at the bar 
for support. People around her shouted and screamed, some in pain, some with 
terror.
Solace was burning.
A lurid orange glow lit the room. Clouds of black smoke rolled in through the 
broken windows. Smells of blazing wood filled Tika's nostrils, along with a more 
horrible smell the smell of burned flesh. Tika choked and looked up to see small 
flames licking the great limbs of the vallenwood that held up the ceiling. 
Sounds of varnish sizzling and popping in the heat mingled with the screams of 
the injured.
"Douse those fires!" Otik was yelling wildly.
"The kitchen!" The cook screamed as she flew out of the swinging doors, her 
clothes smoldering, a solid wall of flame behind her. Tika grabbed a pitcher of 
ale from the bar and tossed it on the cook's dress and held her still to drench 
he clothes. Rhea sank into a chair, weeping hysterically.
"Get out! The whole place'll go up!" someone shouted Hederick, pushing past the 
injured, was one of the first to reach the door. He ran onto the Inn's front 
landing then stopped, stunned, and gripped the rail for support. Staring 
northward, he saw the woods blazing and, by the ghastly light of the flames, he 
could see hundreds of marching creatures the lurid firelight reflecting off 
their leathery wings. Draconian ground troops. He watched, horrified, as the 
front ranks poured into the city of Solace, knowing there must be thousands more 
behind them. And above them flew creatures out of the stories of children.
Dragons.
Five red dragons wheeled overhead in the flame-lit sky. First one, then another, 
dove down, incinerating parts of the small town with its fiery breath, casting 
the thick, magical darkness. It was impossible to fight them warriors could not 
see well enough to aim their arrows or strike with their swords.
The rest of the night blurred in Tika's memory. She kept telling herself she 
must leave the burning Inn, yet the Inn was her home, she felt safe there, and 
so she stayed though the heat from the flaming kitchen grew so intense it hurt 
her lungs to breathe. Just when the flames spread to the common room the kitchen 
crashed to the ground. Otik and the barmaids flung buckets of ale on the flames 
in the common room until, finally the fire was extinguished.
Once the fire was out, Tika turned her attention to the wounded. Otik collapsed 
in a comer, shaking and sobbing. Tika sent one of the other barmaids to tend to 
him, while she began treating the injured. She worked for hours, resolutely 
refusing to look out of the windows, blocking from her mind the awful sounds of 
death and destruction outside.
Suddenly it occured to her that there was no end to the wounded, that more 
people were lying on the floor than had been in the Inn when it was attacked. 
Dazed, she looked up to see people straggling in. Wives helped their husbands. 
Husbands carried their wives. Mothers carried dying children.
"What's going on?" Tika asked a Seeker guard who staggered in, clutching his arm 
where an arrow had penetrated it. Others pushed behind him. "What's happening? 
Why are these people
coming here?"
The guard looked at her with dull, pain-filled eyes. "This is the only 
building," he mumbled. "All burning. All ..."
"No!" Tika went limp with shock and her knees trembled. At that moment, the 
guard fainted in her arms and she was forced to pull herself together. The last 
thing she saw as she dragged
him inside was Hederick, standing on the porch, staring out over the flaming 
town with glazed eyes. Tears streamed unheeded down his soot-streaked face.
"There's been a mistake," he whimpered, wringing his hands. "There's been a 
mistake made somewhere."
That had been a week ago. As it turned out, the Inn was not the only building 
left standing. The draconians knew which buildings were essential to their needs 
and destroyed all those
that were not. The Inn, Theros Ironfeld's blacksmith shop, and the general store 
were saved. The blacksmith shop had always been on the groundbecause of the 
inadvisability of having the hot forge located in a treebut the others had to 
be lowered to the ground because the draconians found it difficult to get into 
the trees.
Lord Verminaard ordered the dragons to lower the buildings. After a space had 
been scorched clear, one of the huge red monsters stuck his claws into the Inn 
and lifted it. The draconians
cheered as the dragon dropped it, not gently, onto the blackened grass. 
Fewmaster Toede, in charge of the town, ordered Otik to repair the Inn 
immediately. The draconians had one great weaknessa thirst for strong drink. 
Three days after the town was taken, the Inn reopened.
"I'm all right now," Tika told Otik. She sat up and dried her eyes, wiping her 
nose with her apron. "I haven't cried once, since that night," she said, more to 
herself than to him. Her lips tightened into a thin line. "And I'll never cry 
again!" she swore, rising from the table.
Otik, not understanding but thankful that Tika had regained her composure before 
the patrons arrived, bustled back behind the bar. "Nearly opening time," he 
said, trying to sound cheerful. "Maybe we'll have a good crowd today."
"How can you take their money!" Tika flared.
Otik, fearing another outburst, looked at her pleadingly.
"Their money is as good as anyone else's. Better than most these days," he said.
"Humpf!" Tika snorted. Her thick red curls quivered as she stalked angrily 
across the floor. Otik, knowing her temper, stepped backwards. It didn't help. 
He was caught. She jabbed her finger into his fat stomach. "How can you laugh at 
their crude jokes and cater to their whims?" she demanded. "I hate the stench of 
them! I hate their leers and their cold, scaly hands touching mine! Someday 
I'll"
"Tika, please!" Otik begged. "Have some regard for me. I'm too old to be carried 
off to the slave mines! And youthey'd take you tomorrow if you didn't work 
here. Please behave there's a good girl!"
Tika bit her lip in anger and frustration. She knew Otik was right. She risked 
more than being sent off in the slave caravans that passed through town almost 
dailyan angered draconian killed swiftly and without mercy. Just as she was 
thinking this, the door banged open and six draconian guards swaggered in. One 
of the them pulled the CLOSED sign off the door and tossed it into a corner.
"You're open," the creature said, dropping into a chair.
"Yes, certainly." Otic grinned weakly. "Tika. . ."
"I see them," Tika said dully.
 
 
2
The stranger.
Captured!
 
The crowd at the Inn that night was sparse. The patrons were now draconians, 
though occasional Solace residents came in for a drink. They generally did not 
stay long, finding the company unpleasant and memories of former times hard to 
bear.
Tonight there was a group of hobgoblins who kept wary eyes on the draconians and 
three crudely dressed humans from the north. Originally impressed into Lord 
Verminaard's service, they now fought for the sheer pleasure of killing and 
looting. A few Solace citizens sat huddled in a corner. Hederick, the Theocrat, 
was not in his nightly spot. Lord Verminaard had
rewarded the High Theocrat's service by placing him among the first to be sent 
to the slave mines.
Near dusk, a stranger entered the Inn, taking a table in a dark corner near the 
door. Tika couldn't tell much about himhe was heavily cloaked and wore a hood 
pulled low over his head. He seemed fatigued, sinking down into his chair as 
though his legs would not support him.
"What will you have?" Tika asked the stranger.
The man lowered his head, pulling down one side of his hood with a slender hand. 
"Nothing, thank you," he said in a soft, accented voice. "Is it permissible to 
sit here and rest? I'm supposed to meet someone."
"How about a glass of ale while you wait?" Tika smiled.
The man glanced up, and she saw brown eyes flash from the depths of his hood. 
"Very well," the stranger said. "I am thirsty. Bring me your ale."
Tika headed for the bar. As she drew the ale, she heard more customers entering 
the Inn.
"Just a half second," she called out, unable to turn around. "Sit anywhere 
you've a mind. I'll be with you soon as I can!" She glanced over her shoulder at 
the newcomers and nearly dropped the mug. Tika gasped, then got a grip on 
herself. Don't give them away!
"Sit down anywhere, strangers" she said loudly.
One of the men, a big fellow, seemed about to speak. Tika frowned fiercely at 
him and shook her head. Her eyes shifted to the draconians seated in the center 
of the room. A bearded man
led the group past the draconians, who examined the strangers with a great deal 
of interest.
They saw four men and a woman, a dwarf, and a kender. The men were dressed in 
mud-stained cloaks and boots. One was unusually tall, another unusually big. The 
woman was cloaked in furs and walked with her hand through the arm of the tall 
man. All of them seemed downcast and tired. One of the men coughed and leaned 
heavily upon a strange-looking staff. They crossed the room and sat down at a 
table in the far comer.
"More refugee scum," sneered a draconian. "The humans look healthy, though, and 
all know dwarves are hard workers. Wonder why they haven't been shipped out?"
"They will be, soon as the Fewmaster sees them."
"Perhaps we should take care of the matter now," said a third, scowling in the 
direction of the eight strangers.
"Naw, I'm off duty. They won't go far."
The others laughed and returned to their drinking. A number of empty glasses 
already sat before each of them.
Tika carried the ale to the brown-eyed stranger, set it before him hurriedly, 
then bustled back to the newcomers.
"What'll you have?" she asked coldly.
The tall, bearded man answered in a low, husky voice. "Ale and food," he said. 
"And wine for him," he nodded at the man who was coughing almost continually.
The frail man shook his head. "Hot water," he whispered.
Tika nodded and left. Out of habit, she started back toward where the old 
kitchen had been. Then, remembering it was gone, she whipped around and headed 
for the makeshift kitchen that had been built by goblins under draconian 
supervision. Once inside, she astounded the cook by grabbing the entire skillet 
of fried spiced potatoes and carrying it back out into the common room.
"Ale all around and a mug of hot water!" she called to Dezra behind the bar. 
Tika blessed her stars that Otik had gone home early. "Itrum, take that table." 
She motioned to the hobgoblins
as she hurried back to the newcomers. She slammed the skillet down, glancing at 
the draconians. Seeing them absorbed in their drinking, she suddenly flung her 
arms around the big man and gave him a kiss that made him flush.
"Oh, Caramon," she whispered swiftly, "I knew you'd come back for me! Take me 
with you! Please, please!"
"Now, there, there," Caramon said, patting her awkwardly on the back and looking 
pleadingly at Tanis. The half-elf swiftly intervened, his eyes on the 
draconians.
"Tika, calm down," he told her. "We've got an audience."
"Right," she said briskly and stood up, smoothing her apron. Handing plates 
around, she began to ladle out the spiced potates as Dezra brought the ale and 
hot water.
"Tell us what happened to Solace," Tanis said, his voice choked.
Quickly Tika whispered the story as she filled everyone's plate, giving Caramon 
a double portion. The companions listened in grim silence.
"And so," Tika concluded, "every week, the slave caravans leave for Pax Tharkas, 
except now they've taken almost everyoneleaving only the skilled, like Theros 
Ironfeld, behind. I fear for him." She lowered her voice. "He swore to me last 
night that he would work for them no more. It all started with that captive 
party of elves"
"Elves? What are elves doing here?" Tanis asked, speaking too loudly in his 
astonishment. The draconians turned to stare at him; the hooded stranger in the 
corner raised his head. Tanis hunched down and waited until the draconians 
turned their attention to their drinks. Then he started to ask Tika more about 
the elves. At that moment, a draconian yelled for ale.
Tika sighed. "I better go." She set the skillet down. "I'll leave that here. 
Finish them off."
The companions ate listlessly, the food tasting like ashes.
Raistlin mixed his strange herbal brew and drank it down, his cough improved 
almost immediately. Caramon watched Tika as he ate, his expression thoughtful. 
He could still feel the warmth of her body as she had embraced him and the 
softness of her lips. Pleasant sensations flowed through him, and he wondered if 
the stories he had heard about Tika were true. The thought both saddened him and 
made him angry.
One of the draconians raised its voice. "We may not be men like you're 
accustomed to, sweetie," it said drunkenly, flinging its scaled arm around 
Tika's waist. "But that doesn't mean we can't find ways of making you happy."
Caramon rumbled, deep in his chest. Sturm, overhearing, glowered and put his 
hand on his sword. Catching hold of the knight's arm, Tanis said urgently, "Both 
of you, stop it! We're in
an occupied town! Be sensible. This is no time for chivalry! You, too, Caramon! 
Tika can handle herself."
Sure enough, Tika slipped deftly out of the draconian s grip and flounced 
angrily into the kitchen.
"Well, what do we do now?" Flint grumbled. "We came back to Solace for supplies 
and find nothing but draconians. My house is little more than a cinder. Tanis 
doesn't even have a vallenwood tree, much less a home. All we've got are 
platinum Disks of some ancient goddess and a sick mage with a few new spells." 
He ignored Raistlin's glower. "We can't eat the Disks and the magician hasn't 
learned to conjure up food, so even if we knew where to go, we'd starve before 
we got there!"
"Should we still go to Haven?" Goldmoon asked, looking up at Tanis. "What if it 
is as bad as this? How do we know the Highseeker Council is even in existence?"
"I don't have the answers," Tanis said, sighing. He rubbed his eyes with his 
hand. "But I think we should try to reach Qualinesti."
Tasslehoff, bored by the conversation, yawned and leaned back in his chair. It 
didn't matter to him where they went. Examining the Inn with intense interest, 
he wanted to get up and look at where the kitchen had burned, but Tanis had 
warned him before they entered to stay out of trouble. The kender contented 
himself with studying the other customers.
He immediately noticed the hooded and cloaked stranger in the front of the Inn 
watching them intently as the conversation among the companions grew heated. 
Tanis raised his voice,
and the word "Qualinesti" rang out again. The stranger set down his mug of ale 
with a thud. Tas was just about to call Tanis's attention to this when Tika came 
out of the kitchen and
slammed food down in front of the draconians, skillfully avoiding their clawed 
hands. Then she walked back over to the group.
"Could I have some more potatoes?" Caramon asked.
"Of course." Tika smiled at him and picked up the skillet to return to the 
kitchen. Caramon felt Raistlin's eyes on him. He flushed and began to play with 
his fork.
"In Qualinest" Tanis reiterated, his voice rising as he contested a point with 
Sturm who wanted to go north.
Tas saw the stranger in the corner rise and start walking toward them. "Tanis, 
company," the kender said softly.
The conversation ceased. Their eyes on their tankards, all of them could feel 
and hear the approach of the stranger. Tanis cursed himself for not noticing him 
sooner.
The draconians, however, had noticed the stranger. Just as he reached the 
creatures' table, one of the draconians stuck out its clawed foot. The stranger 
tripped over it, stumbling headlong into a nearby table. The creatures laughed 
loudly. Then a draconian caught a glimpse of the stranger's face.
"Elf!" the draconian hissed, pulling off the hood to reveal the almond-shaped 
eyes, slanted ears, and delicate, masculine features of an elflord.
"Let me pass," the elf said, backing up, his hands raised. "I was only going to 
exchange a word of greeting with these travelers."
"You'll exchange a word of greeting with the Fewmaster, elf," the draconian 
snarled. Jumping up and grabbing the stranger's cloak collar, the creature 
shoved the elf back up against the bar.
The other two draconians laughed loudly.
Tika, on her way back to the kitchen with the skillet, stalked over toward the 
draconians. "Stop this!" she cried, taking hold of one of the draconians by the 
arm. "Leave him alone. He's a paying customer. Same as you."
"Go about your business, girl!" The draconian shoved Tika aside, then grabbed 
the elf with a clawed hand and hit him, twice, across the face. The blows drew 
blood. When the draconian let go, the elf staggered, shook his head groggily.
"Ah, kill him," shouted one of the humans from the north.
"Make him screech, like the others!"
"I'll cut his slanty eyes out of his head, that's what I'll do!"
The draconian drew his sword.
"This has gone far enough!" Sturm rushed forward, the others behind him, though 
all feared there was little hope of saving the elfthey were too far from him. 
But help was closer. With a shrill cry of rage, Tika Waylan brought her heavy 
iron skillet down on the draconian's head.
There was a loud clunking sound. The draconian stared stupidly at Tika for an 
instant, then slithered to the floor. The elf jumped forward, drawing a knife as 
the other two draconians leaped for Tika. Sturm reached her side and clubbed one 
of the draconians with his sword. Caramon caught the other up in his great arms 
and tossed it over the bar.
"Riverwind! Don't let them out the door!" Tanis cried, seeing the hobgoblins 
leap up. The Plainsman caught one hobgoblin as it put its hand on the doorknob, 
but another escaped his
grasp. They could hear it shouting for the guard.
Tika, still wielding her skillet, thunked a hobgoblin over the head. But another 
hobgoblin, seeing Caramon charge over, leaped out of the window.
Goldmoon rose to her feet. "Use your magic!" she said to Raistlin, grabbing him 
by the arm. "Do something!"
The mage looked at the woman coldly. "It is hopeless," he whispered. "I will not 
waste my strength."
Goldmoon glared at him in fury, but he had returned to his drink. Biting her 
lip, she ran over to Riverwind, the pouch with the precious Disks of Mishakal in 
her arms. She could hear horns blowing wildly in the streets.
"We've got to get out of here!" Tanis said, but at that moment one of the human 
fighters wrapped his arms around Tanis's neck, dragging him to the floor. 
Tasslehoff, with a wild shout,
leaped onto the bar and began flinging mugs at the half-elf's attacker, narrowly 
missing Tanis in the process.
Flint stood in the midst of the chaos, staring at the elven stranger. "I know 
you!" he yelled suddenly. "Tanis, isn't this"
A mug hit the dwarf in the head, knocking him cold.
"Oops," said Tas.
Tanis throttled the northerner and left him unconscious under a table. He 
grabbed Tas off the bar, set the kender on the floor, and knelt down beside 
Flint who was groaning and trying
to sit up.
"Tanis, that elf" Flint blinked groggily, then asked "What hit me?"
"That big guy, under the table!" Tas said pointing.
Tanis stood up and looked at the elf Flint indicated. "Gilthanas?"
The elf stared at him. "Tanthalas," he said coldly. "I would never have 
recognized you. That beard"
Horns blew again, this time closer.
"Great Reorx!" The dwarf groaned, staggering to his feet. "We've got to get out 
of here! Come on! Out the back!"
"There is no back!" Tika cried wildly, still hanging onto the skillet.
"No," said a voice at the door. "There is no back. You are my prisoners."
A blaze of torchlight flared into the room. The companions shielded their eyes, 
making out the forms of hobgoblins behind a squat figure in the doorway. The 
companions could hear the
sounds of flapping feet outside, then what seemed like a hundred goblins stared 
into the windows and peered in through the door. The hobgoblins inside the bar 
that were still alive or conscious picked themselves up and drew their weapons, 
regarding the companions hungrily.
"Sturm, don't be a fool!" Tanis cried, catching hold of the knight as he 
prepared to charge into the seething mass of goblins slowly forming a ring of 
steel around them. "We surrender," the half-elf called out.
Sturm glared at the half-elf in anger, and for a moment Tanis thought he might 
disobey.
"Please, Sturm," Tanis said quietly. "Trust me. This is not our time to die."
Sturm hesitated, glanced around at the goblins crowding inside the Inn. They 
stood back, fearful of his sword and his skill, but he knew they would charge in 
a rush if he made the slightest move. "It is not our time to die." What odd 
words. Why had Tanis said them? Did a man ever have a "time to die"?
If so, Sturm realized, this-wasn't itnot if he could help it. There was no 
glory dying in an Inn, trampled by stinking, flapping goblin feet.
Seeing the knight put his weapon away, the figure at the door decided it was 
safe to enter, surrounded as he was by a hundred or so loyal troops. The 
companions saw the gray, mottled skin and red, squinting pig eyes of Fewmaster 
Toede.
Tasslehoff gulped and moved quickly to stand beside Tanis. "Surely he won't 
recognize us," Tas whispered. "It was dusk when they stopped us, asking about 
the staff."
Apparently Toede did not recognize them. A lot had happened in a week's time and 
the Fewmaster had important things stuffed in a mind already overloaded. His red 
eyes focused on the knight's emblems beneath Sturm's cloak. "More refugee scum 
from Solamnia," Toede remarked.
"Yes," Tanis lied quickly. He doubted if Toede knew of the destruction of Xak 
Tsaroth. He thought it highly unlikely that this fewmaster would know anything 
about the Disks of Mishakal. But Lord Verminaard knew of the Disks and he would 
soon learn of the dragon's death. Even a gully dwarf could add that one up. No 
one must know they came out of the east. "We
have journeyed long days from the north. We did not intend to cause trouble. 
These draconians started it"
"Yes, yes," Toede said impatiently. "I've heard this before." His squinty eyes 
suddenly narrowed. "Hey, you!" he shouted, pointing at Raistlin. "What are you 
doing, skulking back there? Fetch him, lads!" The Fewmaster took a nervous step 
behind the door, watching Raistlin warily. Several goblins charged back, 
overturning benches and tables to reach the frail young man. Caramon rumbled 
deep in his chest. Tanis gestured to the warrior, warning him to remain calm.
"On yer feet!" one of the goblins snarled, prodding at Raistlin with a spear.
Raistlin stood slowly and carefully gathered his pouches. As he reached for his 
staff, the goblin grabbed hold of the mage's thin shoulder.
"Touch me not!" Raistlin hissed, drawing back. "I am magi!"
The goblin hesitated and glanced back at Toede.
"Take him!" yelled the Fewmaster, moving behind a very large goblin. "Bring him 
here with the others. If every man wearing red robes was a magician, this 
country'd be overrun with rabbits! If he won't come peaceably, stick him!"
"Maybe I'll stick him anyway," the goblin croaked. The creature held the tip of 
its spear up to the mage's throat, gurgling with laughter.
Again Tanis held back Caramon. "Your brother can take care of himself," he 
whispered swiftly.
Raistlin raised his hands, fingers spread, as though to surrender. Suddenly he 
spoke the words, "Kalith karan, tobanis-kar!" and pointed his fingers at the 
goblin. Small, brightly glowing
darts made of pure white light beamed from the mage's fingertips, streaked 
through the air, and embedded themselves deep in the goblin's chest. The 
creature fell over with a shriek and lay writhing on the floor.
As the smell of burning flesh and hair filled the room, other goblins sprang 
forward, howling in rage.
"Don't kill him, you fools!" Toede yelled. The Fewmaster had backed clear out 
the door, keeping the big goblin in front of him as cover. "Lord Verminaard pays 
a handsome bounty for
magic-users. But"Toede was inspired"the Lord does not pay a bounty for live 
kenders only their tongues! Do that again, magician, and the kender dies!"
"What is the kender to me?" Raistlin snarled.
There was a long heartbeat of silence in the room. Tanis felt cold sweat chill 
him. Raistlin could certainly take care of himself! Damn the mage!
That was certainly not the answer Toede had expected either, and it left him not 
quite knowing what to doespecially since these big warriors still had their 
weapons. He looked almost pleadingly at Raistlin. The magician appeared to 
shrug.
"I will come peacefully," Raistlin whispered, his golden eyes gleaming. "Just do 
not touch me."
"No, of course not," Toede muttered. "Bring him."
The goblins, casting uneasy glances in the direction of the Fewmaster, allowed 
the mage to stand beside his brother.
"Is that everyone?" demanded Toede irritably. "Then take their weapons and their 
packs."
Tanis, hoping to avoid more trouble, pulled his bow from his shoulder and laid 
it and his quiver on the soot-blackened floor of the Inn. Tasslehoff quickly 
laid down his hoopak; the
dwarfgrumblingadded his battle-axe. The others followed Tanis's lead, except 
Sturm, who stood, his arms folded across his chest, and
"Please, let me keep my pack," Goldmoon said. "I have no weapons in it, nothing 
of value to you. I swear!"
The companions turned to face hereach remembering the precious Disks she 
carried. A strained, tense silence fell. Riverwind stepped in front of Goldmoon. 
He had laid his bow down, but he still wore his sword, as did the knight.
Suddenly Raistlin intervened. The mage had laid down his staff, his pouches of 
spell components, and the precious bag that contained his spellbooks. He was not 
worried about thesespells of protection had been laid on the books; anyone 
other than their owner attempting to read them would go insane; and the Staff of 
Magius was quite capable of taking care of itself. Raistlin held out his hands 
toward Goldmoon.
"Give them the pack," he said gently. "Otherwise they will kill us."
"Listen to him, my dear," called out Toede hastily. "He's an intelligent man."
"He's a traitor!" cried Goldmoon, clutching the pack.
"Give them the pack," Raistlin repeated hypnotically.
Goldmoon felt herself weakening, felt his strange power breaking her. "No!" She 
choked. "This is our hope"
"It will be all right," Raistlin whispered, staring intently into her clear blue 
eyes. "Remember the staff? Remember when I touched it?"
Goldmoon blinked. "Yes," she murmured. "It shocked you"
"Hush," Raistlin warned swiftly. "Give them the pouch. Do not worry. All will be 
well. The gods protect their own."
Goldmoon stared at the mage, then nodded reluctantly.
Raistlin reached out his thin hands to take the pouch from her.
Fewmaster Toede stared at it greedily, wondering what was in it. He would find 
out, but not in front of all these goblins.
Finally there was only one person left who had not obeyed the command. Sturm 
stood unmoving, his face pale, his eyes glittering feverishly. He held his 
father's ancient, two-handed sword tightly. Suddenly Sturm turned, shocked to 
feel Raistlin's burning fingers on his arm.
"I will insure its safety," the mage whispered.
"How?" the knight asked, withdrawing from Raistlin's touch as from a poisonous 
snake.
"I do not explain my ways to you," Raistlin hissed. "Trust me or not, as you 
choose."
Sturm hesitated.
"This is ridiculous!" shrieked Toede. "Kill the knight! Kill them if they cause 
more trouble. I'm losing sleep!"
"Very well!" Sturm said in a strangled voice. Walking over, he reverently laid 
the sword down on the pile of weapons. Its ancient silver scabbard, decorated 
with the kingfisher and rose, gleamed in the light.
"Ah, truly a beautiful weapon," Toede said. He had a sudden vision of himself 
walking into audience with Lord Verminaard, the sword of a Solamnic knight 
hanging at his side. "Perhaps I should take that into custody myself. Bring it"
Before he could finish, Raistlin stepped forward swiftly and knelt beside the 
pile of weapons. A bright flash of light sprang from the mage's hand. Raistlin 
closed his eyes and began to murmur strange words, holding his outstretched 
hands above the weapons and packs.
"Stop him!" yelled Toede. But none dared.
Finally Raistlin ceased speaking and his head slumped forward. His brother 
hurried to help.
Raistlin stood. "Know this!" the mage said, his golden eyes staring around the 
common room. "I have cast a spell upon our belongings. Anyone who touches them 
will be slowly devoured by the great worm, Catyrpelius, who will rise from the 
Abyss and suck the blood from your veins until you are nothing more than a dried 
husk."
"The great worm Catyrpelius!" breathed Tasselehoff, his eyes shining. "That's 
incredible. I've never heard of"
Tanis clapped his hand over the kender's mouth.
The goblins backed away from the pile of weapons which seemed to almost glow 
with a green aura.
"Get those weapons, somebody!" ordered Toede in a rage.
"You get 'em," muttered a goblin.
No one moved. Toede was at a loss. Although he was not particularly imaginative, 
a vivid picture of the great worm, Catyrpelius, reared up in his mind. "Very 
well," he muttered, "take the prisoners away! Load them into the cages. And 
bring those weapons, too, or you'll wish that worm what's-its-name was sucking 
your blood!" Toede stomped off angrily.
The goblins began to shove their prisoners toward the door, prodding them in the 
back with their swords. None, however, touched Raistlin.
"That's a wonderful spell, Raist," Caramon said in a low voice. "How effective 
is it? Could it"
"It's about as effective as your wit!" Raistlin whispered and held up his right 
hand. As Caramon saw the tell-tale black marks of flashpowder, he smiled grimly 
in sudden understanding.
Tanis was the last to leave the Inn. He cast a final look around. A single light 
swung from the ceiling. Tables were overturned, chairs broken. The beams of the 
ceiling were blackened from the fires, in some cases burned through completely. 
The windows were covered with greasy black soot.
"I almost wish I had died before I saw this."
The last thing he heard as he left were two hobgoblin captains arguing heatedly 
about who was going to move the enchanted weapons.
 
 
3
The slave caravan.
A strange old magician.
 
The companions spent a chill, sleepless night, penned up in an iron-barred cage 
on wheels in
the Solace Town Square. Three cages were chained to one of the posts driven into 
the ground around the clearing. The wooden posts were black from flame and heat, 
the bases
scorched and splintered. No living thing grew in the clearing, even the rocks 
were black and melted.
When day dawned, they could see other prisoners in the other cages. The last 
slave caravan leaving Solace for Pax Tharkas, it was to be personally led by the 
Fewmaster himself, Toede having decided to take this opportunity to impress Lord 
Verminaard who was in residence at Pax Tharkas.
Caramon tried once, during the cover of night, to bend the bars of the cage and 
had to give up.
A cold mist arose in the early morning hours, hiding the ravaged town from the 
companions. Tanis glanced over at Goldmoon and Riverwind. Now I understand them, 
Tanis thought. Now I know the cold emptiness inside that hurts worse than any 
swordthrust. My home is gone.
He glanced over at Gilthanas, huddled in a corner. The elf had spoken to no one 
that night, excusing himself by begging that his head hurt and he was tired. But 
Tanis, who had kept
watch all through the night, saw that Gilthanas did not sleep or even make a 
pretence of sleeping. He gnawed his lower lip and stared out into the darkness. 
The sight reminded Tanis that he hadif he chose to claim itanother place he 
could call home: Qualinesti.
No, Tanis thought, leaning against the bars, Qualinesti was never home. It was 
simply a place I lived. . . .
Fewmaster Toede emerged from the mist, rubbing his fat hands together and 
grinning widely as he regarded the slave caravan with pride. There may be a 
promotion here. A fine
catch, considering pickings were drying up in this burned-out shell of a town. 
Lord Verminaard should be pleased, especially with this last batch. That large 
warrior, particularlyan excellent specimen. He could probably do the work of 
three men in the mines. The tall barbarian would do nicely, too. Probably have 
to kill the knight, thoughthe Solamnics were notoriously uncooperative. But 
Lord Verminaard will certainly enjoy the two femalesvery different, but both 
lovely. Toede himself had always been attracted to the red-haired barmaid, with 
her alluring green eyes, the low-cut white blouse purposefully revealing just 
enough of her lightly-freckled skin to tantalize a man with thoughts of what lay 
beyond.
The Fewmaster's reveries were interrupted by the sound of clashing steel and 
hoarse shouts floating eerily through the mist. The shouts grew louder and 
louder. Soon almost everyone in the slave caravan was awake and peering through 
the fog, trying to see.
Toede cast an uneasy glance at the prisoners and wished he'd kept a few more 
guards handy. The goblins, seeing the prisoners stir, jumped to their feet and 
trained their bows and arrows on the wagons.
"What is this?" Toede grumbled aloud. "Can't those fools even take one prisoner 
without all this turmoil?"
Suddenly a cry bellowed above the noise. It was the cry of a man in torment and 
pain, but whose rage surpassed all else.
Gilthanas stood up, his face pale.
"I know that voice," he said. "Theros Ironfeld. I feared this. He's been helping 
elves escape ever since the slaughter. This Lord Verminaard has sworn to 
exterminate the elves" Gilthanas watched Tanis's reaction"or didn't you know?"
"No!" Tanis said, shocked. "I didn't know. How could I?"
Gilthanas fell silent, studying Tanis for long moments. "Forgive me," he said at 
last. "It appears I have misjudged you. I thought perhaps that was why you had 
grown the beard."
"Never!" Tanis leaped up. "How dare you accuse me"
"Tanis," cautioned Sturm.
The half-elf turned to see the goblin guards crowding foward, their arrows 
trained at his heart. Raising his hands, he stepped back to his place just as a 
squadron of hobgoblins dragged a tall, powerfully built man into sight.
"I heard Theros had been betrayed," Gilthanas said softly. "I returned to warn 
him. But for him, I never would have escaped Solace alive. I was supposed to 
meet him in the Inn last night. When he did not come, I was afraid"
Fewmaster Toede threw open the door to the companions' cage, yelling and 
gesturing for the hobgoblins to hurry their prisoner forward. The goblins kept 
the other prisoners covered while the hobgoblins threw Theros into the cage.
Fewmaster Toede slammed the door shut quickly. "That's it!" he yelled. "Hitch up 
the beasts. We're moving out."
Squads of goblins drove huge elk into the clearing and began hitching them to 
wagons. Their yelling and the confusion registered only in the back of Tanis's 
mind. For the moment, his
shocked attention was on the smith.
Theros Ironfeld lay unconscious on the straw-covered floor of the cage. Where 
his strong right arm should have been was a mangled stump. His arm had been 
hacked off, apparently by some blunt weapon, just below the shoulder. Blood 
poured from the terrible wound and pooled on the floor of the cage.
"Let that be a lesson to all those who help elves!" The Fewmaster peered in the 
cage, his red pig eyes squinching in their pouches of fat. "He won't be forging 
anything ever again unless it be a new arm! I, eh" A huge elk lumbered into 
the Fewmaster, forcing him to scramble for his life.
Toede turned on the creature leading the elk. "Sestun You oaf!" Toede knocked 
the smaller creature to the ground.
Tasslehoff stared down at the creature, thinking it was a very short goblin. 
Then he saw it was a gully dwarf dressed in a goblin's armor. The gully dwarf 
picked himself up, shoved his oversized helm back, and glared after the 
Fewmaster, who was waddling up to the front of the caravan. Scowling, the gully 
dwarf began kicking mud in his direction. This apparently relieved his soul, for 
he soon quit and returned to prodding the slow elk into line.
"My faithful friend," Gilthanas murmured, bending over Theros and taking the 
smith's strong, black hand in his. "You have paid for your loyalty with your 
life."
Theros looked at him with vacant eyes, clearly not hearing the elf's voice. 
Gilthanas tried to stanch the dreadful wound, but blood continued to pump onto 
the floor of the cart. The smithy's life was emptying before their eyes.
"No," said Goldmoon, coming to kneel beside the smith. "He need not die. I am a 
healer."
"Lady," Gilthanas said impatiently, "there exists no healer on Krynn who could 
help this man. He has lost more blood than the dwarf has in his whole body! His 
lifeboat is so faint I can barely feel it. The kindest thing to do is let him 
die in peace without any of your barbarian rituals!"
Goldmoon ignored him. Placing her hand upon Theros's forehead, she closed her 
eyes.
"Mishakal," she prayed, "beloved goddess of healing, grace this man with your 
blessing. If his destiny be not fulfilled, heal him, that he may live and serve 
the cause of truth."
Gilthanas began to remonstrate once more, reaching out to pull Goldmoon away. 
Then he stopped and stared in amazement. Blood ceased to drain from the smith's 
wound and, even
as the elf watched, the flesh began to close over it. Warmth returned to the 
smith's dusky black skin, his breathing grew peaceful and easy, and he appeared 
to drift into a healthful, relaxed sleep. There were gasps and murmurs of 
astonishment from the other prisoners in the nearby cages. Tanis glanced around 
fearfully to see if any of the goblins or draconians had noticed, but apparently 
they were all preoccupied with hitching the recalcitrant elk to the wagons. 
Gilthanas subsided back into his corner, his eyes on Goldmoon, his expression 
thoughtful.
"Tasslehoff, pile up some of that straw," Tanis instructed.
"Caramon, you and Sturm help me move him to a corner."
"Here." Riverwind offered his cloak. "Take this to cover him from the chill."
Goldmoon made certain Theros was comfortable, then returned to her place beside 
Riverwind. Her face radiated a peace and calm serenity that made it seem as if 
the reptilian
creatures on the outside of the cage were the true prisoners.
It was nearly noon before the caravan got under way. Goblins came by and threw 
some food into the cages, hunks of meat and bread. No one, not even Caramon, 
could eat the rancid, stinking meat and they threw it back out. But they 
devoured the bread hungrily, having eaten nothing since last nightfall. Soon 
Toede had everything in order and, riding by on his
shaggy pony, gave the orders to move out. The gully dwarf, Sestun, trotted after 
Toede. Seeing the hunk of meat lying in the mud and filth outside the cage, the 
gully dwarf stopped,
grabbed it eagerly, and crammed it into his mouth.
Each wheeled cage was pulled by four elk. Two hobgoblins sat high on crude 
wooden platforms, one holding the reins of the elk, the other a whip and a 
sword. Toede took his place at the front of the line, followed by about fifty 
draconians dressed in armor and heavily armed. Another troop of about twice as 
many hobgoblins fell into line behind the cages.
After a great deal of confusion and swearing, the caravan finally lurched 
forward. Some of the remaining residents of Solace stared at them as they drove 
off. If they knew anyone among the prisoners, they made no sound or gesture of 
farewell. The faces, both inside and outside the cages, were the faces of those 
who no longer can feel pain. Like Tika, they had vowed never to cry again.
The caravan traveled south from Solace, down the old road through Gateway Pass. 
The hobgoblins and draconians grumbled about traveling in the heat of the day, 
but they cheered up,and moved faster once they marched into the shade of the 
Pass's high canyon walls. Although the prisoners were chilled in the canyon, 
they had their own reasons for being grateful they no longer had to look upon 
their ravaged homeland.
It was evening by the time they left the canyon's winding roads and reached 
Gateway. The prisoners strained against the bars for some glimpse of the 
thriving market town. But now
only two low stone walls, melted and blackened, marked where the town might have 
once stood. No living creature stirred. The prisoners sank back in misery.
Once more out in the open country, the draconians announced their preference for 
traveling by night, out of the sun's light. Consequently, the caravan made only 
brief stops
until dawn. Sleep was impossible in the filthy cages jolting and jouncing over 
every rut in the road. The prisoners suffered from thirst and hunger. Those who 
managed to gag down the
food the draconians tossed them soon vomited it back up. They were given only 
small cups of water two or three times a day.
Goldmoon remained near the injured smithy. Although Theros Ironfeld was no 
longer at the point of death, he was still very ill. He developed a high fever 
and, in his delirium, he raved about the sacking of Solace. Theros spoke of 
draconians whose bodies, when dead, turned into pools of acid, burning the flesh 
of their victims; and of draconians whose bones exploded after death, destroying 
everything within a wide radius. Tanis listened to the smith relive horror after 
horror until he felt sick. For the first time, Tanis realized the enormity of 
the situation. How could they hope to fight dragons whose breath could kill, 
whose magic exceeded that of all but the most powerful magic-users who had ever 
lived? How could they defeat vast armies of these draconians when even the 
corpses of the creatures had the power to kill?
All we have, Tanis thought bitterly, are the Disks of Mishakaland what good are 
they? He had examined the Disks during their journey from Xak Tsaroth to Solace. 
He had been able to read little of what was written, however. Although Goldmoon 
had been able to understand those words that pertained to the healing arts, she 
could decipher little more.
"All will be made clear to the leader of the people," she said with steadfast 
faith. "My calling now is to find him."
Tanis wished he could share her faith, but as they traveled through the ravaged 
countryside, he began to doubt that any leader could defeat the might of this 
Lord Verminaard.
These doubts merely compounded the half-elf's other problems. Raistlin, bereft 
of his medicine, coughed until he was nearly in as bad a state as Theros, and 
Goldmoon had two patients on her hands. Fortunately, Tika helped the Plainswoman 
tend the mage. Tika, whose father had been a magician of sorts, held anyone who 
could work magic in awe.
In fact, it was Tika's father who inadvertently introduced Raistlin to his 
calling. Raistlin's father took the twin boys and his stepdaughter, Kitiara, to 
the local Summer's End festival where the children watched the Wonderful Waylan 
perform his illusions. Eight-year-old Caramon was soon bored and readily agreed 
to accompany his teenage half-sister to the event that attracted herthe 
swordplay. Raistlin, thin and frail even then, had no use for such active 
sports. He spent the entire day watching Waylan the Illusionist. When the family 
returned home that evening, Raistlin astounded them by being able to duplicate 
flawlessly every trick. The next day, his father took the boy to study with one 
of the great masters of the magic arts.
Tika had always admired Raistlin and she had been impressed by the stories she 
heard about his mysterious journey to the fabled Towers of High Sorcery. Now she 
helped care for the mage out of respect and her own innate need to help
those weaker than herself. She also tended him (she admitted privately to 
herself) because her deeds won a smile of gratitude and approval from Raistlin's 
handsome twin brother.
Tanis wasn't certain which to worry about mostthe worsening condition of the 
mage or the growing romance between the older, experienced soldier and the young 
andTanis believed, despite gossip to the contrary inexperienced, vulnerable 
barmaid.
He had another problem as well. Sturm, humiliated at being taken prisoner and 
hauled through the countryside like an animal to slaughter, lapsed into a deep 
depression from which Tanis thought he might never escape. Sturm either sat all 
day, staring out between the bars, orperhaps worsehe lapsed into periods of 
deep sleep from which he could not be wakened.
Finally Tanis had to cope with his own inner turmoil, physically manifested by 
the elf sitting in the comer of the cage.
Every time he looked at Gilthanas, Tanis's memories of his home in Qualinesti 
haunted him. As they neared his homeland, the memories he had thought long 
buried and forgotten crept into his mind, their touch every bit as chilling as 
the touch of the undead in Darken Wood.
Gilthanas, childhood friendmore than friend, brother.
Raised in the same household and close to the same age, the two had played and 
fought and laughed together. When Gilthanas's little sister grew old enough, the 
boys allowed the captivating blonde child to join them. One of the threesome's 
greatest delights was teasing the older brother, Porthios, a strong and serious 
youth who took on the responsibilities and sorrows of his people at an early 
age. Gilthanas, Laurana, and Porthios were the children of the Speaker of the 
Suns, the ruler of the elves of Qualinesti, a position Porthios would inherit at 
his father's death.
Some in the elven kingdom thought it odd that the Speaker would take into his 
house the bastard son of his dead brother's wife after she had been raped by a 
human warrior. She had died of grief only months after the birth of her 
half-breed child. But the Speaker, who had strong views on responsibility, took 
in the child without hesitation. It was only in later years, as he watched with 
growing unease the developing relationship between his beloved daughter and the 
bastard half-elf, that he began to regret his decision. The situation confused 
Tanis as well. Being half-human, the young man acquired a maturity the slower 
developing elf maid could not understand. Tanis saw the unhappiness their union 
must bring down upon the family he loved. He also was beset by the inner turmoil 
that would torment him in later life: the constant battle between the elvish and 
the human within him. At the age of eightyabout twenty in human yearsTanis 
left Qualinost. The Speaker was not sorry to see Tanis leave. He tried to hide 
his feelings from the young half-elf, but both of them knew it.
Gilthanas had not been so tactful. He and Tanis had exchanged bitter words over 
Laurana. It was years before the sting of those words faded, and Tanis wondered 
if he had ever truly forgotten or forgiven. Clearly, Gilthanas had done neither.
The journey for these two was very long. Tanis made a few attempts at desultory 
conversation and became immediately aware that Gilthanas had changed. The young 
elflord had always been open and honest, fun-loving and light-hearted. He did 
not envy his older brother the responsibilities inherent in his role as heir to 
the throne. Gilthanas was a scholar, a dabbler
in the magic arts, though he never took them as seriously as Raistlin. He was an 
excellent warrior, though he disliked fighting, as do all elves. He was deeply 
devoted to his family, especially his sister. But now he sat silent and moody, 
an unusual characteristic in elves. The only time he showed any interest in 
anything was when Caramon had begun plotting an escape. Gilthanas told him 
sharply to forget it, he would ruin everything. When pressed to elaborate, the 
elf fell silent, muttering only something about "overwhelming odds."
By sunrise of the third day, the draconian army was flagging from the night's 
long march and looking forward to a rest. The companions had spent another 
sleepless night and looked forward to nothing but another chill and dismal day. 
But the cages suddenly rolled to a stop. Tanis glanced up, puzzled at the change 
in routine. The other prisoners roused themselves and looked out the cage bars. 
They saw an old man, dressed in long robes that once might have been white and a 
battered, pointed hat. He appeared to be talking to a tree.
"I say, did you hear me?" The old man shook a worn walking stick at the oak. "I 
said move and I meant it! I was sitting on that rock"he pointed to a 
boulder"enjoying the rising sun on my old bones when you had the nerve to cast 
a shadow over it and chill me! Move this instant, I say!"
The tree did not respond. It also did not move.
"I won't take any more of your insolence!" The old man began to beat on the tree 
with his stick. "Move or I'llI'll"
"Someone shut that looney in a cage!" Fewmaster Toede shouted, galloping back 
from the front of the caravan.
"Get your hands off me!" the old man shrieked at the draconians who ran up and 
accosted him. He beat on them feebly with his staff until they took it away from 
him. "Arrest the tree!" he insisted. "Obstructing sunlight! That's the charge!"
The draconians threw the old man roughly into the companions' cage. Tripping 
over his robes, he fell to the floor.
"Are you all right. Old One?" Riverwind asked as he assisted the old man to a 
seat.
Goldmoon left Theros's side. "Yes, Old One," she said softly. "Are you hurt? I 
am a cleric of"
"Mishakal!" he said, peering at the amulet around her neck. "How very 
interesting. My, my." He stared at her in astonishment. "You don't look three 
hundred years old!"
Goldmoon blinked, uncertain how to react. "How did you know? Did you recognize? 
I'm not three hundred" She was growing confused.
"Of course, you're not. I'm sorry, my dear." The old man patted her hand. "Never 
bring up a lady's age in public. Forgive me. It won't happen again. Our little 
secret," he said in a piercing whisper. Tas and Tika started to giggle. The old 
man looked around. "Kind of you to stop and offer me a lift. The road to 
Qualinost is long."
"We're not going to Qualinost," Gilthanas said sharply. "We're prisoners, going 
to the slave mines of Pax Tharkas."
"Oh?" the old man glanced around vaguely. "Is there another group due by here 
soon, then? I could have sworn this was the one."
"What is your name. Old One," Tika asked.
"My name?" The old man hesitated, frowning. "Fizban? Yes, that's it. Fizban."
"Fizban!" Tasslehoff repeated as the cage lurched to a start again. "That's not 
a name!"
"Isn't it?" the old man asked wistfully. "That's too bad. I was rather fond of 
it."
"I think it's a splendid name," Tika said, glaring at Tas. The kender subsided 
into a corner, his eyes on the pouches slung over the old man's shoulder.
Suddenly Raistlin began to cough and they all turned their attention to him. His 
coughing spasms had been growing worse and worse. He was exhausted and in 
obvious pain; his skin
burned to the touch. Goldmoon was unable to help him. Whatever was burning the 
mage up inside, the cleric could not heal. Caramon knelt beside him, wiping away 
the bloody saliva that
flecked his brother's lips.
"He's got to have that stuff he drinks!" Caramon looked up in anguish. "I've 
never seen him this bad. If they won't listen to reason" the big man 
scowled"I'll break their heads! I don't
care how many there are!"
"We'll talk to them when we stop for the night," Tanis promised, though he could 
guess the Fewmaster's answer.
"Excuse me," the old man said. "May I?" Fizban sat down beside Raistlin. He laid 
his hand on the mage's head and sternly spoke a few words. Caramon, listening 
closely, heard "Fistandan . . ." and "not the time . . ." Certainly it wasn't a 
healing prayer, such as Goldmoon had tried, but the big man saw that his brother 
responded! The response was astonishing, however. Raistlin's eyes fluttered and 
opened. He looked up at the old man with a wild expression of terror and grasped 
Fizban's wrist in his thin, frail hand. For an instant it seemed Raistlin knew 
the old man, then Fizban passed his hand over the mage's eyes. The look of 
terror subsided, replaced by confusion.
"Hullo," Fizban beamed at him. "Name'suhFizban." He shot a stern glance at 
Tasslehoff, daring the kender to laugh.
"You are . . . magi!" Raistlin whispered. His cough was gone.
"Why, yes, I suppose I am."
"I am magi!" Raistlin said, struggling to sit up.
"No kidding!" Fizban seemed immensely tickled. "Small world, Krynn. I'll have to 
teach you a few of my spells. I have one ... a fireball . . . let's see, how did 
that go?"
The old man rambled on long past the time the caravan stopped at the rising of 
the sun.
 
 
4
Rescue.
Fizban's magic.
 
Raistlin suffered in body, Sturm suffered in mind, but perhaps the one who 
experienced
the keenest suffering during the companions' four-day imprisonment was 
Tasslehoff.
The cruelest form of torture one can inflict on a kender is to lock him up. Of 
course, it is also widely believed that the crudest form of torture one can 
inflict on any other species is to lock
them up with a kender. After three days of Tasslehoff s incessant chatter, 
pranks, and practical jokes, the companions would have willingly traded the 
kender for a peaceful hour of being stretched on the rackat least that's what 
Flint said.
Finally, after even Goldmoon lost her temper and nearly slapped him, Tanis sent 
Tasslehoff to the back of the cart. His legs hanging over the edge, the kender 
pressed his face against the iron bars and thought he would die of misery. He 
had never been so bored in his entire life.
Things got interesting with the discovery of Fizban, but the old man's amusement 
value wore thin when Tanis made Tas return the old magician's pouches. And so, 
driven to the point of desperation, Tasslehoff latched onto a new diversion.
Sestun, the gully dwarf.
The companions generally regarded Sestun with amused pity. The gully dwarf was 
the object of Toede's ridicule and mistreatment. He ran the Fewmaster's errands 
all night long, carrying messages from Toede at the front of the caravan to the 
hobgoblin captain at the rear, lugging food up to the Fewmaster from the supply 
cart; feeding and watering the Fewmaster's pony, and any other nasty jobs the 
Fewmaster could devise. Toede knocked him flat at least three times a day, the 
draconians tormented him, and the hobgoblins stole his food. Even the elk kicked 
at him whenever he trotted past. The gully dwarf bore it all with such a grimly 
defiant spirit that it won him the sympathy of the companions.
Sestun began to stay near the companions when not busy. Tanis, eager for 
information about Pax Tharkas, asked him about his homeland and how he came to 
work for the Fewmaster. The story took over a day for Sestun to relate and 
another day for the companions to piece together, since he started in the middle 
and plunged headlong into the beginning.
What it amounted to, eventually, wasn't much help. Sestun was among a large 
group of gully dwarves living in the hills around Pax Tharkas when Lord 
Verminaard and his draconians captured the iron mines which he needed to make 
steel weapons for his troops.
"Big fireall day, all night. Bad smell." Sestun wrinkled his nose. "Pound rock. 
All day, all night. I get good job in kitchen"his face brightened a moment"fix 
hot soup. Very hot." His face fell. "Spill soup. Hot soup heat up armor real 
fast. Lord Verminaard sleep on back for week." He sighed. "I go with Fewmaster. 
Me volunteer."
"Maybe we can shut the mines down," Caramon suggested.
"That's a thought," Tanis mused. "How many draconians does Lord Verminaard have 
guarding the mines?"
"Two!" Sestun said, holding up ten grubby fingers.
Tanis sighed, remembering where they had heard that before.
Sestun looked at him hopefully. "There be only two dragons, too."
"Two dragons!" Tanis said incredulously.
"Not more than two."
Caramon groaned and settled back. The warrior had been giving dragon fighting 
serious thought ever since Xak Tsaroth. He and Sturm had reviewed every tale 
about Huma, the only
known dragon fighter the knight could remember. Unfortunately, no one had ever 
taken the legends of Huma seriously before (except the Solamnic Knights, for 
which they were ridiculed), so much of Huma's tale had been distorted by time or 
forgotten.
"A knight of truth and power, who called down the gods themselves and forged the 
mighty Dragonlance," Caramon murmured now, glancing at Sturm, who lay asleep on 
the straw-covered floor of their prison.
"Dragonlance?" muttered Fizban, waking with a snort. "Dragonlance? Who said 
anything about the Dragonlance?"
"My brother," Raistlin whispered, smiling bitterly. "Quoting the Canticle. It 
seems he and the knight have taken a fancy to children's stories that have come 
to haunt them."
"Good story, Huma and the Dragonlance," said the old man, stroking his beard.
"Storythat's all it is." Caramon yawned and scratched his chest. "Who knows if 
it's real or if the Dragonlance was real or if even Huma was real."
"We know the dragons are real," Raistlin murmured.
"Huma was real," Fizban said softly. "And so was the Dragonlance." The old man's 
face grew sad.
"Was it?" Caramon sat up. "Can you describe it?"
"Of course!" Fizban sniffed disdainfully.
Everyone was listening now. Fizban was, in fact, a bit disconcerted by his 
audience.
"It was a weapon similiar tono, it wasn't. Actually it wasno, it wasn't that 
either. It was closer to ... almost a ... rather it was, sort of alance, that's 
it! A lance!" He nodded earnestly. "And it was quite good against dragons."
"I'm taking a nap," Caramon grumbled.
Tanis smiled and shook his head. Sitting back against the bars, he wearily 
closed his eyes. Soon everyone except Raistlin and Tasslehoff fell into a fitful 
sleep. The kender, wide awake and bored, looked at Raistlin hopefully. 
Sometimes, if Raistlin was in a good mood, he would tell stories about 
magic-users of old. But the mage, wrapped in his red robes, was staring 
curiously at Fizban. The old man sat on a bench, snoring gently, his head 
bobbing up and down as the cart jounced over the road. Raistlin's golden eyes 
narrowed to gleaming slits as though he had been struck by a new and disturbing 
thought. After a moment, he pulled his hood up over his head and leaned back, 
his face lost in the shadows.
Tasslehoff sighed. Then, glancing around, he saw Sestun walking near the cage. 
The kender brightened. Here, he knew, was an appreciative audience for his 
stories.
Tasslehoff, calling him over, began to relate one of his own personal favorites. 
The two moons sank. The prisoners slept. The hobgoblins trailed along behind, 
half-asleep, talking about
making camp soon. Fewmaster Toede rode up ahead, dreaming about promotion. 
Behind the Fewmaster, the draconians muttered among themselves in their harsh 
language, casting baleful glances at Toede when he wasn't looking.
Tasslehoff sat, swinging his legs over the side of the cage, talking to 
Sestun."The kender noticed without seeming to that Gilthanaswas only pretending 
to sleep. Tas saw the elf's eyes open and glance quickly around when he thought 
no one was watching. This intrigued Tas immensely. It seemed almost as if 
Gilthanas was watching or waiting for something. The kender lost the thread of 
his story.
"And so I... uh ... grabbed a rock from my pouch, threw it andthunkhit the 
wizard right on the head," Tas finished hurriedly. "The demon grabbed the wizard 
by the foot and dragged him down into the depths of the Abyss."
"But first demon thank you," prompted Sestun who had heard this storywith 
variationstwice before. "You forgot."
"Did I?" Tas asked, keeping an eye on Gilthanas. "Well, yes, the demon thanked 
me and took away the magic ring he'd given me. If it wasn't dark, you could see 
the outline the ring burned on my finger."
"Sun uping. Morning soon. I see then," the gully dwarf said eagerly.
It was still dark, but a faint light in the east hinted that soon the sun would 
be rising on the fourth day of their journey.
Suddenly Tas heard a bird call in the woods. Several answered it. What 
odd-sounding birds, Tas thought. Never heard their like before. But then he'd 
never been this far south before. He knew where they were from one of his many 
maps.
They had passed over the only bridge across the White-rage River and were 
heading south toward Pax Tharkas, which was marked on the kender's map as the 
site of the famed Thadarkan iron mines. The land began to rise, and thick 
forests of aspens appeared to the west. The draconians and hobgoblins kept 
eyeing the forests and their pace picked up. Concealed within these woods was 
Qualinesti, the ancient elvenhome.
Another bird called, much nearer now. Then the hair rose on Tasslehoff's neck as 
the same bird call sounded from right behind him. The kender turned to see 
Gilthanas on his feet, his fingers to his lips, an eerie whistle splitting the 
air.
"Tanis!" Tas yelled, but the half-elf was already awake. So was everyone in the 
cart.
Fizban sat up, yawned, and glanced around. "Oh, good," he said mildly, "the 
elves are here."
"What elveswhere?" Tanis sat up.
There was a sudden whirring sound like a covey of quail taking flight. A cry 
rang out from the supply wagon in front of them, then there was a splintering 
sound as the wagon, now
driverless, lurched into a rut and tipped over. The driver of their cage wagon 
pulled sharply on the reins, stopping the elk before they ran into the wrecked 
supply wagon. The cage
tipped precariously, sending the prisoners sprawling. The driver got the elk 
going again and guided them around the wreckage.
Suddenly the driver of the cage screamed and clutched at his neck where the 
companions saw the feathered shaft of an arrow silhouetted against the dimly lit 
morning sky. The driver's body tumbled from the seat. The other guard stood up, 
sword raised, then he, too, toppled forward with an arrow in his chest. The elk, 
reeling the reins go slack, slowed until the cage rolled to a halt. Cries and 
screams echoed up and down the caravan as arrows whizzed through the air.
The companions fell for cover face first on the floor of the cage.
"What is it? What's going on?" Tanis asked Gilthanas.
But the elf, ignoring him, peered through the dawn gloom into the forest. 
"Porthios!" he called.
"Tanis, what's happening?" Sturm sat up, speaking his first words in four days.
"Porthios is Gilthanas's brother. I take it this is a rescue," Tanis said. An 
arrow zipped past and lodged in the wooden side of the cart, narrowly missing 
the knight.
"It won't be much of a rescue if we end up dead!" Sturm dropped to the floor. "I 
thought elves were expert marksmen!"
"Keep low." Gilthanas ordered. "The arrows are only to cover our escape. This is 
a strike-and-run raid. My people are not capable of attacking a large body 
directly. We must be ready to run for the woods."
"And how do we get out of these cages?" Sturm demanded.
"We cannot do everything for you!" Gilthanas replied coldly. "There are 
magic-users"
"I cannot work without my spell components!" Raistlin hissed from beneath a 
bench. "Keep down. Old One," he said to Fizban who, head raised, was looking 
around with interest.
"Perhaps I can help," the old magician said, his eyes brightening. "Now, let me 
think"
"What in the name of the Abyss is going on?" roared a voice out of the darkness. 
Fewmaster Toede appeared, galloping on his pony. "Why have we stopped?"
"We under attack!" Sestun cried, crawling out from under the cage where he'd 
taken cover.
"Attack? BIyxtshok! Get this cart moving!" Toede shouted. An arrow thunked into 
the Fewmaster's saddle. Toede's red eyes flew open and he stared fearfully into 
the woods. "We're
under attack! Elves! Trying to free the prisoners!"'
"Driver and guard dead!" Sestun shouted, flattening himself against the cage as 
another arrow just missed him. "What me do?"
An arrow zipped over Toede's head. Ducking, he had to clutch his pony's neck to 
keep himself from falling off. "I'll get another driver," he said hastily. "You 
stay here. Guard these prisoners with your life! I'll hold you responsible if 
they escape."
The Fewmaster stuck his spurs into his pony and the fear crazed animal leaped 
forward. "My guard! Hobgoblins! To me!" the Fewmaster yelled as he galloped to 
the rear of the line.
His shouts echoed back. "Hundreds of elves! We're surrounded. Charge to the 
north! I must report this to Lord Verminaard." Toede reined in at the sight of a 
draconian captain. "You draconians tend to the prisoners!" He spurred his horse 
on, still shouting, and one hundred hobgoblins charged after their valiant 
leader away from the battle. Soon, they were completely out of sight.
"Well, that takes care of the hobgoblins," Sturm said, his face relaxing in a 
smile. "Now all we have left to worry about is fifty or so draconians. I don't 
suppose, by the way, that there are hundreds of elves out there?"
Gilthanas shook his head. "More like twenty."
Tika, lying flat on the floor, cautiously raised her head and looked south. In 
the pale morning light, she could see the hulking forms of the draconians about 
a mile ahead, leaping into
the cover on either side of the road as the elven archers moved down to fire 
into their ranks. She touched Tanis's arm, pointing.
"We've got to get out of this cage," Tanis said, looking back. "The draconians 
won't bother taking us to Pax Tharkas now that the Fewmaster's gone. They'll 
just butcher us in these cages. Caramon?"
"I'll try," the fighter rumbled. He stood and gripped the bars of the cage in 
his huge hands. Closing his eyes, he took a deep breath and tried to force the 
bars apart. His face reddened, the
muscles in his arms bunched, the knuckles on his big hands turned white. It was 
useless. Gasping for breath, Caramon flattened himself on the floor.
"Sestun!" Tasslehoff cried. "Your axe! Break the lock!"
The gully dwarf's eyes opened wide. He stared at the companions, then he glanced 
down the trail the Fewmaster had taken. His face twisted in an agony of 
indecision.
"Sestun" Tasslehoff began. An arrow zinged past the kender. The draconians 
behind them were moving forward, firing into the cages. Tas flattened himself on 
the floor. "Sestun," he began again, "help free us and you can come with us!"
A look of firm resolve hardened Sestun's features. He reached for his axe, which 
he wore strapped onto his back. The companions watched in nailbiting frustration 
as Sestun felt all around his shoulders for the axe, which was located squarely 
in the middle of his back. Finally, one hand discovered the handle and he pulled 
the axe out. The blade glinted in the gray light of dawn.
Flint saw it and groaned. "That axe is older than I am! It must date back to the 
Cataclysm! He probably couldn't cut through a kender's brain, let alone that 
lock!"
"Hush!" Tanis instructed, although his own hopes sank at the sight of the gully 
dwarf's weapon. It wasn't even a battle-axe, just a small, battered, rusty 
woodcutting axe the gully dwarf
had apparently picked up somewhere, thinking it was a weapon. Sestun tucked the 
axe between his knees and spat on his hands.
Arrows thunked and clattered around the bars of the cage. One struck Caramon's 
shield. Another pinned Tika's blouse to the side of the cage, grazing her arm. 
Tika couldn't remember
being more terrified in her lifenot even the night dragons struck Solace. She 
wanted to scream, she wanted Caramon to put his arm around her. But Caramon 
didn't dare move.
Tika caught sight of Goldmoon, shielding the injured Theros with her body, her 
face pale but calm. Tika pressed her lips together and drew a deep breath. 
Grimly she yanked the arrow
out of the wood and tossed it to the floor, ignoring the stinging pain in her 
arm. Looking south, she saw that the draconians, momentarily confused by the 
sudden attack and the disappearance of Toede, were organized now, on their feet 
and running toward the cages. Their arrows filled the air. Their chest armor 
gleamed in the dim gray light of morning, so did the bright steel of their 
longswords, which they carried clamped in their jaws as they ran.
"Draconians, closing in," she reported to Tanis, trying to keep her voice from 
shaking.
"Hurry, Sestun!" Tanis shouted.
The gully dwarf gripped the axe, swung it with all his might, and missed the 
lock, striking the iron bars a blow that nearly jarred the axe from his hands. 
Shrugging apologetically, he swung again. This time he struck the lock.
"He didn't even dent it," Sturm reported.
"Tanis," Tika quavered, pointing. Several draconians were within ten feet of 
them, pinned down for a few moments by the elven archers, but all hope of rescue 
seemed lost.
Sestun struck the lock again.
"He chipped it," Sturm said in exasperation. "At this rate we'll be out in about 
three days! What are those elves doing, anyway? Why don't they quit skulking 
about and attack!"
"We don't have enough men to attack a force this size!" Gilthanas returned 
angrily, crouching next to the knight. "They'll get to us when they can! We are 
at the front of the line. See, others are escaping."
The elf pointed to the two wagons behind them. The elves had broken the locks 
and the prisoners were dashing madly for the woods as the elves covered them, 
darting out from the trees to let fly their deadly barrage of arrows. But once 
the prisoners were safe, the elves retreated into the trees.
The draconians had no intention of going into the elven woods after them. Their 
eyes were on the last prison cage and the wagon containing the prisoners' 
possessions. The companions could hear the shouts of the draconian captains. The
meaning was clear: "Kill the prisoners. Divide the spoils."
Everyone could see that the draconians would reach them long before the elves 
did. Tanis swore in frustration. Everything seemed futile. He felt a stirring at 
his side. The old magician, Fizban, was getting to his feet.
"No, Old One!" Raistlin grasped at Fizban's robes. "Keep under cover!"
An arrow zipped through the air and stuck in the old man's bent and battered 
hat. Fizban, muttering to himself, did not seem to notice. He presented a 
wonderful target in the gray light. Draconian arrows flew around him like wasps, 
and seemed to have as little effect, although he did appear mildly annoyed when 
one stuck into a pouch he happened to have his hand in at the moment.
"Get down!" Caramon roared. "You're drawing their fire!"
Fizban did kneel down for a moment, but it was only to talk to Raistlin. "Say 
there, my boy," he said as an arrow flew past right where he'd been standing. 
"Have you got a bit of bat guano on you? I'm out."
"No, Old One," Raistlin whispered frantically. "Get down!"
"No? Pity. Well, I guess I'll have to wing it." The old magician stood up, 
planted his feet firmly on the floor, and rolled up the sleeves of his robes. He 
shut his eyes, pointed at the cage door, and began to mumble strange words.
"What spell is he casting?" Tanis asked Raistlin. "Can you understand?"
The young mage listened intently, his brow furrowed. Suddenly Raistlin's eyes 
opened wide. "NO!" he shrieked, trying to pull on the old magician's robe to 
break his concentration. But
it was too late. Fizban said the final word and pointed his finger at the lock 
on the back door of the cage.
"Take cover!" Raistlin threw himself beneath a bench. Sestun, seeing the old 
magician point at the cage doorand at him on the other side of itfell flat on 
his face. Three draconians, reaching the cage door, their weapons dripping with 
their saliva, skidded to a halt, staring up in alarm.
"What is it?" Tanis yelled.
"Fireball!" Raistlin gasped and at that moment a gigantic ball of yellow-orange 
fire shot from the old magician's fingertips and struck the cage door with an 
explosive boom. Tanis buried his face in his hands as flames billowed and 
crackled around
him. A wave of heat washed over him, searing his lungs. He heard the draconians 
scream in pain and smelled burning reptile flesh. Then smoke flew down his 
throat.
"The floor's on fire!" Caramon yelled.
Tanis opened his eyes and staggered to his feet. He expected to see the old 
magician nothing but a mound of black ash like the bodies of the draconians 
lying behind the wagon. But Fizban stood staring at the iron door, stroking his 
singed beard in dismay. The door was still shut.
"That really should have worked," he said.
"What about the lock?" Tanis yelled, trying to see through the smoke. The iron 
bars of the cell door already glowed red hot.
"It didn't budge!" Sturm shouted. He tried to approach the cage door to kick it 
open, but the heat radiating from the bars made it impossible. "The lock may be 
hot enough to break!" He choked in the smoke.
"Sestun!" Tasslehoff's shrill voice rose above the crackling flames. "Try again! 
Hurry!"
The gully dwarf staggered to his feet, swung the axe, missed, swung again, and 
hit the lock. The superheated metal shattered, the lock gave way, and the cage 
door swung open.
"Tanis, help us!" Goldmoon cried as she and Riverwind struggled to pull the 
injured Theros from his smoking pallet.
"Sturm, the others!" Tanis yelled, then coughed in the smoke. He staggered to 
the front of the wagon, as the rest jumped out, Sturm grabbing hold of Fizban, 
who was still staring sadly at the door.
"Come on. Old One!" he yelled, his gentle actions belying his harsh words as he 
took Fizban's arm. Caramon, Raistlin, and Tika caught Fizban as he jumped from 
the flaming wreckage.
Tanis and Riverwind lifted Theros by the shoulders and dragged him out, Goldmoon 
stumbled after them. She and Sturm jumped from the cart just as the ceiling 
collapsed.
"Caramon! Get our weapons from the supply wagon!" Tanis shouted. "Go with him, 
Sturm. Flint and Tasslehoff, get the packs. Raistlin"
"I willget my pack," the mage said, choking in the smoke. "And my staff. No one 
else may touch them."
"All right," Tanis said, thinking quickly. "Gilthanas"
"I am not yours to order around, Tanthalas," the elf snapped and ran off into 
the woods without looking back.
Before Tanis could answer, Sturm and Caramon ran back.mCaramon's knuckles were 
split and bleeding. There had been two draconians looting the supply wagon.
"Get moving!" Sturm shouted. "More coming! Where's your elf friend?" he asked 
Tanis suspiciously.
"He's gone ahead into the woods," Tanis said. "Just remember, he and his people 
saved us."
"Did they?" Sturm said, his eyes narrow. "It seems that between the elves and 
the old man, we came closer to getting killed than with just about anything 
short of the dragon!"
At that moment, six draconians rushed out from the smoke, skidding to a halt at 
the sight of the warriors.
"Run for the woods!" Tanis yelled, bending down to help Riverwind lift Theros. 
They carried the smith to cover while Caramon and Sturm stood, side by side, 
covering their retreat.
Both noticed immediately that the creatures they faced were unlike the 
draconians they had fought before. Their armor and coloring were different, and 
they carried bows and longswords, the latter dripping with some sort of awful 
icor. Both
men remembered stories about draconians that turned to acid and those whose 
bones exploded.
Caramon charged forward, bellowing like an enraged animal, his sword slashing in 
an arc. Two draconians fell beforemthey knew what was attacking. Sturm saluted 
the other four with his sword and swept off the head of one in the return
stroke. He jumped at the others, but they stopped just out of his range, 
grinning, apparently waiting for something.
Sturm and Caramon watched uneasily, wondering what was going on. Then they knew. 
The bodies of the slain draconians near them began to melt into the road. The 
flesh boiled and ran like lard in a skillet. A yellowish vapor formed over them, 
mixing with the thinning smoke from the smoldering cage. Both men gagged as the 
yellow vapor rose around them. They grew
dizzy and knew they were being poisoned.
"Come on! Get back!" Tanis yelled from the woods.
The two stumbled back, fleeing through a rainstorm of arrows as a force of forty 
or fifty draconians swept around the cage, screeching in anger. The draconians 
started after them, then fell back when a clear voice called out, "Hai! Ulsain!" 
and ten elves, led by Gilthanas, ran from the woods.
"Quen talas uvenelei!" Gilthanas shouted. Caramon and Sturm staggered past him, 
the elves covering their retreat, then the elves fell back.
"Follow me," Gilthanas told the companions, switching to High Common. At a sign 
from Gilthanas, four of the elven warriors picked up Theros and carried him into 
the woods.
Tanis looked back at the cage. The draconians had come to a halt, eyeing the 
woods warily.
"Hurry!" Gilthanas urged. "My men will cover you."
Elven voices rose out of the woods, taunting the approaching draconians, trying 
to lure them into arrow range. The companions looked at each other hesitantly.
"I do not want to enter Elvenwood," Riverwind said harshly.
"It is all right," Tanis said, putting his hand on Riverwind's arm. "You have my 
pledge." Riverwind stared at him for a moment, then plunged into the woods, the 
others walking by
his side. Last to come were Caramon and Raistlin, helping Fizban. The old man 
glanced back at the cage, now nothing more than a pile of ashes and twisted 
iron.
"Wonderful spell. And did anyone say a word of thanks?" he asked wistfully.
The elves led them swiftly through the wilderness. Without their guidance, the 
party would have been hopelessly lost. Behind them, the sounds of battle turned 
half-hearted.
"The draconians know better than to follow us into the woods," Gilthanas said, 
smiling grimly. Tanis, seeing armed elven warriors hidden among the leaves of 
the trees, had little fear of pursuit. Soon all sounds of fighting were lost.
A thick carpeting of dead leaves covered the ground. Bare tree limbs creaked in 
the chill wind of early morning. After spending days riding cramped in the cage, 
the companions moved slowly and stiffly, glad for the exercise that warmed their 
blood. Gilthanas led them into a wide glade as the morning sun lit the woods 
with a pale light.
The glade was crowded with freed prisoners. Tasslehoff glanced eagerly around 
the group, then shook his head sadly.
"I wonder what happened to Sestun," he said to Tanis. "I thought I saw him run 
off."
"Don't worry." The half-elf patted him on the shoulder. "He'll be all right. The 
elves have no love for gully dwarves, but they wouldn't kill him."
Tasslehoff shook his head. It wasn't the elves he was worried about.
Entering the clearing, the companions saw an unusually tall and powerfully built 
elf speaking to the group of refugees. His voice was cold, his demeanor serious 
and stern.
"You are free to go, if any are free to go in this land. We have heard rumors 
that the lands south of Pax Tharkas are not under the control of the Dragon 
Highlord. I suggest, therefore, that you head southeast. Move as far and as fast 
as you can this day. We have food and supplies for your journey, all that we can 
spare. We can do little else for you."
The refugees from Solace, stunned by their sudden freedom, stared around bleakly 
and helplessly. They had been farmers on the outskirts of Solace, forced to 
watch while their homes
burned and their crops were stolen to feed the Dragon Highlord's army. Most of 
them had never been farther from Solace than Haven. Dragons and elves were 
creatures of legend. Now children's stories had come to haunt them.
Goldmoon's clear blue eyes glinted. She knew how they felt. "How can you be so 
cruel?" she called out angrily to the tall elf. "Look at these people. They have 
never been out of Solace in
their lives and you tell them calmly to walk through a land overrun by enemy 
forces"
"What would you have me do, human?" the elf interrupted her. "Lead them south 
myself? It is enough that we have freed them. My people have their own problems. 
I cannot be concerned with those of humans." He shifted his eyes to the group of 
refugees. "I warn you. Time is wasting. Be on your way!"
Goldmoon turned to Tanis, seeking support, but he just shook his head, his face 
dark and shadowed.
One of the men, giving the elves a haggard glance, stumbled off on the trail 
that meandered south through the wilderness. The other men shouldered crude 
weapons, women caught up
their children, and the families straggled off.
Goldmoon strode forward to confront the elf. "How can you care so little for"
"For humans?" The elf stared at her coldly. "It was humans who brought the 
Cataclysm upon us. They were the ones who sought the gods, demanding in their 
pride the power that was
granted Huma in humility. It was humans who caused the gods to turn their faces 
from us"
"They haven't!" Goldmoon shouted. "The gods, are among us!"
Porthios's eyes flared with anger. He started to turn away when Gilthanas 
stepped up to his brother and spoke to him swiftly in the elven language.
"What do they say?" Riverwind asked Tanis suspiciously.
"Gilthanas is telling how Goldmoon healed Theros," Tanis said slowly. It had 
been many, many years since he had heard or spoken more than a few words in the 
elven tongue. He had forgotten how beautiful the language was, so beautiful it 
seemed to cut his soul and leave him wounded and bleeding inside. He watched as 
Porthios's eyes widened in disbelief.
Then Gilthanas pointed at Tanis. Both the brothers turned to face him, their 
expressive elven features hardening. Riverwind flicked a glance at Tanis, saw 
the half-elf standing pale but composed under this scrutiny.
"You return to the land of your birth, do you not?" Riverwind asked. "It does 
not seem you are welcome."
"Yes," Tanis said grimly, aware of what the Plainsman was thinking. He knew 
Riverwind was not prying into personal affairs out of curiosity. In many ways, 
they were in more danger now than they had been with the Fewmaster.
"They will take us to Qualinost," Tanis said slowly, the words apparently 
causing him deep pain. "I have not been there for many years. As Flint will tell 
you, I was not forced out, but few
were sorry to see me leave. As you once said to me, Riverwindto humans I am 
half-elven. To elves, I was half-man."
"Then let us leave and travel south with the others," Riverwind said.
"You would never get out of here alive," Flint murmured.
Tanis nodded. "Look around," he said.
Riverwind glanced around him and saw the elven warriors moving like shadows 
among the trees, their brown clothing blending in with the wilderness that was 
their home. As the two
elves ended their conversation, Porthios turned his gaze from Tanis back to 
Goldmoon.
"I have heard strange tales from my brother that bear investigation. I extend to 
you, therefore, what the elves have extended to no humans in yearsour 
hospitality. You will be our honored guests. Please follow me."
Porthios gestured. Nearly two dozen elven warriors emerged from the woods, 
surrounding the companions.
"Honored prisoners is more like it. This is going to be rough on you, my lad," 
Flint said to Tanis in a low, gentle voice.
"I know, old friend." Tanis rested his hand on the dwarf's shoulder. "I know."
 
 
5
The Speaker of the Suns.
 
I have never imagined such beauty existed," Goldmoon said softly. The day's 
march had
been difficult, but the reward at the end was beyond their dreams. The 
companions stood on a high cliff over the fabled city of Qualinost.
Four slender spires rose from the city's corners like glistening spindles, their 
brilliant white stone marbled with shining silver. Graceful arches, swooping 
from spire to spire, soared through the air. Grafted by ancient dwarven 
metalsmiths, they were strong enough to hold the weight of an army, yet they 
appeared so delicate that a bird lighting on them might overthrow the balance. 
These glistening arches were the city's only boundaries; there was no wall 
around Qualinost. The elven city opened its arms lovingly to the wilderness.
The buildings of Qualinost enhanced nature, rather than concealing it. The 
houses and shops were carved from rose-colored quartz. Tall and slender as aspen 
trees, they vaulted upward in impossible spirals from quartz-lined avenues. In 
the center stood a great tower of burnished gold, catching the sun-light and 
throwing it back in whirling, sparkling patterns that gave the tower life. 
Looking down upon the city, it seemed that peace and beauty unchanged from ages 
past must dwell in Qualinost, if it dwelled anywhere in Krynn.
"Rest here," Gilthanas told them, leaving them in a grove of aspen trees. "The 
journey has been long, and for that I apologize. I know you are weary and you 
hunger"
Caramon looked up hopefully.
"But I must beg your indulgence a few moments longer.
Please excuse me." Gilthanas bowed, then walked to stand by his brother. 
Sighing, Caramon began rummaging through his pack for the fifth time, hoping 
perhaps he had overlooked a morsel. Raistlin read his spellbook, his lips 
repeating the difficult words, trying to grasp their meaning, to find the 
correct inflection and phrasing that would make his blood burn and so tell him 
the spell was his at last.
The others looked around, marveling at the beauty of the city beneath them and 
the aura of ancient tranquility that lay over it. Even Riverwind seemed touched; 
his face softened and he held Goldmoon close. For a brief instant, their cares 
and their sorrows eased and they found comfort in each other's nearness. Tika 
sat apart, watching them wistfully. Tasslehoff was trying to map their way from 
Gateway into Qualinost, although Tanis had told him four times that the way was 
secret
and the elves would never permit him to carry off a map. The old magician, 
Fizban, was asleep. Sturm and Flint watched Tanis in concernFlint because he 
alone had any idea of what the half-elf was suffering; Sturm because he knew 
what it was like returning to a home that didn't want you.
The knight laid his hand on Tanis's arm. "Coming home isn't easy, my friend, is 
it?" he asked.
"No," Tanis answered softly. "I thought I had left this behind long ago, but now 
I know I never truly left at all. Qualinesti is part of me, no matter how much I 
want to deny it."
"HushGilthanas," Flint warned.
The elf came over to Tanis. "Runners were sent ahead and now they have 
returned," he said in elven. "My father has asked to see youall of youat once, 
in the Tower of the Sun. I can-
not permit time for refreshment. In this we seem crude and impolite"
"Gilthanas," Tanis interrupted in Common. "My friends and I have been through 
unimagined peril. We have traveled roads whereliterallythe dead walked. We 
won't faint from hunger"he glanced at Caramon"some of us won't, at any rate."
The warrior, hearing Tanis, sighed and tightened his belt.
"Thank you," Gilthanas said stiffly. "I am glad you understand. Now, please 
follow as swiftly as you can."
The companions gathered their things hastily and woke Fizban. Rising to his 
feet, he fell over a tree root. "Big lummox!" he snapped, striking it with his 
staff. "Theredid you see it? Tried to trip me!" he said to Raistlin.
The mage slipped his precious book back into its pouch. "Yes, Old One." Raistlin 
smiled, assisting Fizban to his feet. The old magician leaned on the young one's 
shoulder as they walked after the others. Tanis watched them, wondering. The
old magician was obviously a dotard. Yet Tanis remembered Raistlin's look of 
stark terror when he woke and found Fizban leaning over him. What had the mage 
seen? What did he know about this old man? Tanis reminded himself to ask. Now, 
however, he had other, more pressing matters on his mind. Walking forward, he 
caught up with the elf.
"Tell me, Gilthanas," Tanis said in elven, the unfamiliar words haltingly coming 
back to him. "What's going on? I have a right to know."
"Have you?" Gilthanas asked harshly, glancing at Tanis from the corners of his 
almond-shaped eyes. "Do you care what happens to elves anymore? You can barely 
speak our language!"
"Of course, I care," Tanis said angrily. "You are my people too!"
"Then why do you flaunt your human heritage?" Gilthanas gestured to Tanis's 
bearded face. "I would think you would be ashamed" He stopped, biting his lip, 
his face flushing.
Tanis nodded grimly. "Yes, I was ashamed, and that's why I left. But if I was 
ashamedwho made me so?"
"Forgive me, Tanthalas," Gilthanas said, shaking his head. "What I said was 
cruel and, truly, I did not mean it. It's just that... if you only understood 
the danger we face!"
"Tell me!" Tanis practically shouted in his frustration. "I want to understand!"
"We are leaving Qualinesti," Gilthanas said.
Tanis stopped and stared at the elf. "Leaving Qualinesti?" he repeated, 
switching to Common in his shock. The companions heard him and cast quick 
glances at each other. The old magician's face darkened as he tugged at his 
beard.
"You can't mean it!" Tanis said softly. "Leaving Qualinesti! Why? Surely things 
aren't this bad"
"They are worse," Gilthanas said sadly. "Look around you, Tanthalas. You see 
Qualinost in its final days."
They entered the first streets of the city. Tanis, at first glance, saw 
everything exactly as he had left it fifty years ago. Neither the streets of 
crushed gleaming rock nor the aspen trees they
ran among had changed; the clean streets sparkled brightly in the sunshine; the 
aspens had grown perhaps, perhaps not. Their leaves glimmered in the late 
morning light, the gold and
silver-inlaid branches rustled and sang. The houses along the streets had not 
changed. Decorated with quartz, they shimmered in the sunlight, creating small 
rainbows of color everywhere the eye looked. All seemed as the elves loved 
itbeautiful, orderly, unchanging. . . .
No, tint was wrong, Tanis realized. The song of the trees was now sad and 
lamenting, not the peaceful, joyful song Tanis remembered. Qualinost had changed 
and the change was
change itself. He tried to grasp hold of it, to understand it, even as he felt 
his soul shrivel with loss. The change was not in the buildings, not in the 
trees, or the sun shining through the leaves. The change was in the air. It 
crackled with tension, as before a storm. And, as Tanis walked the streets of 
Qualinost, he saw things he had never before seen in his homeland. He saw
haste. He saw hurry. He saw indecision. He saw panic, desperation, and despair.
Women, meeting friends, embraced and wept, then parted and hurried on separate 
ways. Children sat forlorn, not understanding, knowing only that play was out of 
place. Men gathered in groups, hands on their swords, keeping watchful eyes on 
their families. Here and there, fires burned as the elves destroyed what they 
loved and could not carry with them, rather than let the coming darkness consume 
it.
Tanis had grieved over the destruction of Solace, but the sight of what was 
happening in Qualinost entered his soul like the blade of a dull knife. He had 
not realized it meant so much to him. He had known, deep in his heart, that even 
if he never returned, Qualinesti would always be there. But no, he was losing 
even that. Qualinesti would perish.
Tanis heard a strange sound and turned around to see the old magician weeping.
"What plans have you made? Where will you go? Can you escape?" Tanis asked 
Gilthanas bleakly.
"You will find out the answers to those questions and more, too soon, too soon," 
Gilthanas murmured.
The Tower of the Sun rose high above the other buildings in Qualinost. Sunlight 
reflecting off the golden surface gave the illusion of whirling movement. The 
companions entered the Tower in silence, awestruck by the beauty and majesty of 
the ancient building. Only Raistlin glanced around, unimpressed. To his eyes, 
there, existed no beauty, only death.
Gilthanas led the companions to a small alcove. "This room is just off the main 
chamber," he said. "My father is meeting with the Heads of Household to plan the 
evacuation. My brother has gone to tell him of our arrival. When the business is 
finished, we will be summoned." At his gesture, elves entered, bearing pitchers 
and basins of cool water. "Please, refresh yourselves as time permits."
The companions drank, then washed the dust of the journey from their faces and 
hands. Sturm removed his cloak and carefully polished his armor as best he could 
with one of Tasslehoff's handkerchiefs. Goldmoon brushed out her shining hair, 
kept her cloak fastened around her neck. She and Tanis had decided the medallion 
she wore should remain hidden until the time seemed proper to reveal it; some 
would recognize it. Fizban tried, without much success, to straighten his bent 
and shapeless hat. Caramon looked around for something to eat. Gilthanas stood 
apart from them all, his face pale and drawn.
Within moments, Porthios appeared in the arched doorway. "You are called," he 
said sternly.
The companions entered the chamber of the Speaker of the Suns. No human had seen 
the inside of this building for hundreds of years. No kender had ever seen it. 
The last dwarves who saw it were the ones present at its construction, hundreds 
of years before.
"Ah, now this is craftsmanship," Flint said softly, tears misting his eyes.
The chamber was round and seemed immensely larger than the slender Tower could 
possibly encompass. Built entirely of white marble, there were no support beams, 
no columns. The room soared upwards hundreds of feet to form a dome at the very 
top of the tower where a beautiful mosaic made of inlaid, glittering tile 
portrayed the blue sky and the sun on one half; the silver moon, the red moon, 
and the stars on the other half, the halves separated by a rainbow.
There were no lights in the chamber. Cunningly built windows and mirrors focused 
sunlight into the room, no matter where the sun was located in the sky. The 
streams of sunlight converged in the center of the chamber illuminating a 
rostrum.
There were no seats in the Tower. The elves stoodmen and women together; only 
those designated as Heads of Household had the right to be in this meeting. 
There were more women
present than Tanis ever remembered seeing; many dressed in deep purple, the 
color of mourning. Elves marry for life and if the spouse dies do not remarry. 
Thus the widow has the status of Head of Household until her death.
The companions were led to the front of the chamber. The elves made room for 
them in respectful silence but gave them strange, forbidding looksparticulary 
the dwarf, the kender, and the two barbarians who seemed grotesque in their 
outlandish furs. There were astonished murmurs at the sight of the proud and 
noble Knight of Solamnia. And there were scattered mutterings over the 
appearance of Raistlin in his red robes. Elven magic-users wore the white robes 
of good, not the red robes proclaiming neutrality. That, the elves believed, was 
just one step removed from black. As the crowd settled down, the Speaker of the 
Suns came forward te the rostrum.
It had been many years since Tanis had seen the Speakerhis adopted father, as 
it were. And here, too, he saw change. The man was still tall, taller even than 
his son Porthios. He was dressed in the yellow, shimmering robes of his office. 
His face was stern and unyielding, his manner austere. He was the Speaker of the 
Suns, called the Speaker; he had been called the Speaker for well over a 
century. Those who knew his name never pronounced itincluding his children. But 
Tanis saw in his hair touches of silver, which had not been there before, and 
there were lines of care and sorrow in the face, which had previously seemed 
untouched by time.
Porthios joined his brother as the companions, led by the elves, entered. The 
Speaker extended his arms and called them by name. They walked forward into 
their fathers embrace.
"My sons," the Speaker said brokenly, and Tanis was startled at this show of 
emotion. "I never thought to see either of you in this life again. Tell me of 
the raid" he said, turning to Gilthanas.
"In time. Speaker," said Gilthanas. "First, I bid you greet our guests."
"Yes, I am sorry." The Speaker passed a trembling hand over his face and it 
seemed to Tanis that he aged even as he stood before them. "Forgive me, guests. 
I bid you welcome, you who have entered this kingdom no one has entered for many 
years."
Gilthanas spoke a few words and the Speaker stared shrewdly at Tanis, then 
beckoned the half-elf forward. His words were cool, his manner polite, if 
strained. "Is it indeed you, Tanthalas, son of my brother's wife? The years have 
been long, and all have wondered about your fate. We welcome you back to your 
homeland, though I fear you come only to see its final days. My daughter, in 
particular, will be glad to see you. She has missed her childhood playmate."
Gilthanas stiffened at this, his face darkening as he looked at Tanis. The 
half-elf felt his own face flush. He bowed low before the Speaker, unable to say 
a word.
"I welcome the rest of you and hope to learn more of you later. We shall not 
keep you long, but it is right that you learn in this room what is happening in 
the world. Then you will be allowed to rest and refresh yourselves. Now, my 
son,"The Speaker turned to Gilthanas, obviously thankful to end the 
formalities. "The raid on Pax Tharkas?"
Gilthanas stepped forward, his head bowed. "I have failed, Speaker of the Suns."
A murmur passed among the elves like the wind among the aspens. The Speaker's 
face bore no expression. He simply sighed and stared unseeing out a tall window. 
"Tell your story," he said quietly.
Gilthanas swallowed, then spoke, his voice so low many in the back of the room 
leaned forward to hear.
"I traveled south with my warriors in secrecy, as was planned. All went well. We 
found a group of human resistance fighters, refugees from Gateway, who joined 
us, adding to our numbers. Then, by the crudest mischance, we stumbled into the 
advance patrols of the dragonarmy. We fought valiantly, elves and humans 
together, but for naught. I was struck on the head and remember nothing more. 
When I awoke, I was lying in a ravine, surrounded by the bodies of my comrades. 
Apparently, the foul dragonmen shoved the wounded over the cliff,
leaving us for dead." Gilthanas paused, clearing his throat.
"Druids in the woods tended my injuries. From them, I learned that many of my 
warriors were still alive and had been taken prisoner. Leaving the druids to 
bury the dead, I followed the tracks of the dragonarmy and eventually came to 
Solace."
Gilthanas stopped. His face glistened with sweat and his hands twitched 
nervously. He cleared his throat again, tried to speak and failed. His father 
watched him with growing concern.
Gilthanas spoke. "Solace is destroyed."
There was a gasp from the audience.
"The mighty vallenwoods have been cut and burnedfew now stand."
The elves wailed and cried out in dismay and anger. The Speaker held up his hand 
for order. "This is grievous news," he said sternly. "We mourn the passing of 
trees old even to us. But continuewhat of our people?"
"I found my men tied to stakes in the center of the town square along with the 
humans who had helped us," Gilthanas said, his voice breaking. "They were 
surrounded by draconian guards. I hoped to be able to free them at night. Then" 
His voice failed completely and he bowed his head as his older brother came over 
and laid a hand on his shoulder. Gilthanas straightened. "A red dragon appeared 
in the sky"
Sounds of shock and dismay came from the assembled elves. The Speaker shook his 
head in sorrow.
"Yes, Speaker," Gilthanas said and his voice was loud, unnaturally loud and 
jarring. "It is true. These monsters have returned to Krynn. The red dragon 
circled above Solace and all who saw him fled in terror. He flew lower and lower 
and then
landed in the town square. His great gleaming red reptile body filled the 
clearing, his wings spread destruction, his tail toppled trees. Yellow fangs 
glistened, green saliva dripped from his massive jaws, his huge talons tore the 
ground . . . and riding upon his back was a human male.
"Powerfully built, he was dressed in the black robes of a cleric of the Queen of 
Darkness. A black and gold cape fluttered around him. His face was hidden by a 
hideous horned mask fashioned in black and gold to resemble the face of a 
dragon. The dragonmen fell to their knees in worship as the dragon landed. The 
goblins and hobgoblins and foul humans who fight with the dragonmen cowered in 
terror; many ran away. Only the example of my people gave me the courage to 
stay."
Now that he was speaking, Gilthanas seemed eager to tell the story. "Some of the 
humans tied to stakes went into a frenzy of terror, screaming piteously. But my 
warriors remained calm and defiant, although all were affected alike by the 
dragonfear the monster generates. The dragonrider did not seem to find this 
pleasing. He glared at them, and then spoke in a voice that
came from the depths of the Abyss. His words still burn in my mind.
'I am Verminaard, Dragon Highlord of the North. I have fought to free this land 
and these people from the false beliefs spread by those who call themselves 
Seekers. Many have come to work for me, pleased to further the great cause of 
the Dragon Highlords. I have shown them mercy and graced them with the blessings 
my goddess has granted me. Spells of healing I possess, as do no others in this 
land, and therefore you know that I am the representative of the true gods. But 
you humans who stand before me now have defied me. You chose to fight me and 
therefore your punishment will serve as an example to any others who choose 
folly over wisdom.'
"Then he turned to the elves and said, 'Be it known by this act that I, 
Verminaard, will destroy your race utterly as decreed by my goddess. Humans can 
be taught to see the errors of their
ways, but elvesnever!' The man's voice rose until it raged louder than the 
winds. 'Let this be your final warningall who watch! Ember, destroy!'
"And, with that, the great dragon breathed out fire upon all those tied to the 
stakes. They writhed helplessly, burning to death in terrible agony. . . ."
There was no sound at all in the chamber. The shock and horror were too great 
for words.
"A madness swept over me," Gilthanas continued, his eyes burning feverishly, 
almost a reflection of what he had seen. "I started to rush forward, to die with 
my people, when a great
hand grasped me and dragged me backwards. It was Theros Ironfeld, the blacksmith 
of Solace. 'Now is not the time to die, elf,' he told me. 'Now is the time for 
revenge.' I ... I collapsed then, and he took me back to his house, in peril of 
his own life. And he would have paid for his kindness to elves with his life, 
had not this woman healed him!"
Gilthanas pointed to Goldmoon, who stood at the back of the group, her face 
shrouded by her fur cape. The Speaker turned to stare at her, as did the other 
elves in the chamber, their murmurings dark and ominous.
"Theros is the man brought here today. Speaker," Porthios said. "The man with 
but one arm. Our healers say he will live. But they say it is only by a miracle 
that his life was spared, so
dreadful were his wounds."
"Come forward, woman of the Plains," the Speaker commanded sternly. Goldmoon 
took a step toward the rostrum, Riverwind at her side. Two elven guards moved 
swiftly to block him. He glared at them but stood where he was.
The Chieftain's Daughter moved forward, holding her head proudly. As she removed 
her hood, the sun shone on the silver-gold hair cascading down her back. The 
elves marveled at her beauty.
"You claim to have healed this manTheros Ironfeld?" The Speaker asked her with 
disdain.
"I claim nothing," Goldmoon answered coolly. "Your son saw me heal him. Do you 
doubt his words?"
"No, but he was overwrought, sick and confused. He may have mistaken witchcraft 
for healing."
"Look on this," Goldmoon said gently and untied her cape, letting it fall away 
from her neck. The medallion sparkled in the sunlight.
The Speaker left the rostrum and came forward, his eyes widening in disbelief. 
Then his face became distorted with rage. "Blasphemy!" he shouted. Reaching out, 
he started to rip the
medallion from Goldmoon's throat.
There was a flash of blue light. The Speaker crumbled to the floor with a cry of 
pain. As the elves shouted out in alarm, drawing their swords, the companions 
drew theirs. Elven warriors rushed to surround them.
"Stop this nonsense!" said the old magician in a strong, stern voice. Fizban 
tottered up to the rostrum, calmly pushing aside the sword blades as if they 
were slender branches of an aspen tree. The elves stared in astonishment, 
seemingly unable to stop him. Muttering to himself, Fizban came up to the 
Speaker, who was lying stunned on the floor. The old man helped the elf to his 
feet.
"Now then, you asked for that, you know," Fizban scolded, brushing the Speaker's 
robes as the elf gaped at him.
"Who are you?" the Speaker gasped.
"Mmmm. What was that name?" The old magician glanced around at Tasslehoff.
"Fizban," the kender said helpfully.
"Yes, Fizban. That's who I am." The magician stroked his white beard. "Now, 
Solostaran, I suggest you call off your guards and tell everyone to settle down. 
I, for one, would like to hear the story of this young woman's adventures and 
you, for one, would do well to listen. It wouldn't hurt you to apologize, 
either."
As Fizban shook his finger at the Speaker, his battered hat tilted forward, 
covering his eyes. "Help! I've gone blind!" Raistlin, with a distrustful glance 
at the elven guards, hurried forward. He took the old man's arm and straightened 
his hat.
"Ah, thank the true gods," the magician said, blinking and shuffling across the 
floor. The Speaker watched the old magician, a puzzled expression on his face. 
Then, as if in a dream, he turned to face Goldmoon.
"I do apologize, lady of the Plains," he said softly. "It has been over three 
hundred years since the elven clerics vanished, three hundred years since the 
symbol of Mishakal was seen in
this land. My heart bled to see the amulet profaned, as I thought. Forgive me. 
We have been in despair so long I failed to see the arrival of hope. Please, if 
you are not weary, tell us your
story."
Goldmoon related the story of the medallion, telling of Riverwind and the 
stoning, the meeting of the companions at the Inn and their journey to Xak 
Tsaroth. She told of the destruction of the dragon and of how she received the 
medallion of Mishakal. But she didn't mention the Disks.
The sun's rays lengthened as she spoke, changing color as twilight approached. 
When her story ended, the Speaker was silent for long moments.
"I must consider all of this and what it means to us," he said finally. He 
turned to the companions. "You are exhausted. I see some of you stand by courage 
alone. Indeed"he smiled, looking at Fizban who leaned against a pillar, snoring 
softly "some of you are asleep on your feet. My daughter, Laurana, will guide 
you to a place where you can forget your fears. We will hold a banquet in your 
honor tonight, for you bring us hope. May the peace of the true gods go with 
you."
The elves parted, and out of their midst came an elfmaiden who walked forward to 
stand beside the Speaker. At sight of her, Caramon's mouth sagged open. 
Riverwind's eyes widened. Even Raistlin stared, his eyes seeing beauty at last, 
for no hint of decay touched the young elfmaiden. Her hair was honey pouring 
from a pitcher; it spilled over her arms and down her back, past her waist, 
touching her wrists as she stood with her arms at her sides. Her skin was smooth 
and woodland brown. She had the delicate, refined features of the elves, but 
these were combined with full, pouting lips and large liquid eyes that
changed color like leaves in flickering sunshine.
"On my honor as a knight," Sturm said with a catch in his voice, "I've never 
seen any woman so lovely."
"Nor will you in this world," Tanis murmured.
All the companions glanced at Tanis sharply as he spoke, but the half-elf did 
not notice. His eyes were on the elfmaid. Sturm raised his eyebrows, exchanged 
looks with Caramon who nudged his brother. Flint shook his head and sighed a 
sigh that seemed to come from his toes.
"Now much is made clear," Goldmoon said to Riverwind.
"It hasn't been made clear to me," Tasslehoff said. "Do you know what's going 
on, Tika?"
All Tika knew was that, looking at Laurana, she felt suddenly dumpy and 
half-dressed, freckled and red-headed. She tugged her blouse up higher over her 
full bosom, wishing it didn't reveal quite so much or that she had less to 
reveal.
"Tell me what's going on," Tasslehoff whispered, seeing the knowing looks 
exchanged by the others.
"I don't know!" Tika snapped. "Just that Caramon's making a fool of himself. 
Look at the big ox. You'd think he'd never seen a woman before."
"She is pretty," Tas said. "Different from you, Tika. She's slender and she 
walks like a tree bending in the wind and"
"Oh, shut up!" Tika snapped furiously, giving Tas a shove that nearly knocked 
him down.
Tasslehoff gave her a wounded glance, then walked over to stand beside Tanis, 
determined to keep near the half-elf until he figured out what was going on.
"I welcome you to Qualinost, honored guests," Laurana said shyly, in a voice 
that was like a clear stream rippling among the trees. "Please follow me. The 
way is not far, and there is food
and drink and rest at the end."
Moving with childlike grace, she walked among the companions who parted for her 
as the elves had done, all of them staring at her admiringly. Laurana lowered 
her eyes in maidenly modesty and self-consciousness, her cheeks flushing. She
looked up only once, and that was as she passed Tanisa fleeting glance, that 
only Tanis saw. His face grew troubled, his eyes darkened.
The companions left the Tower of the Sun, waking Fizban as they departed.
 
 
6
Tanis and Laurana.
 
Laurana led them to a sun-dappled grove of aspens in the very center of the 
city. Here, though surrounded by buildings and streets, they seemed to be in the 
heart of a forest. Only the murmurings of a nearby brook broke the stillness. 
Laurana, gesturing toward fruit trees among the aspens, told the companions to 
pick and eat their fill. Elfmaids brought in baskets of fresh, fragrant bread. 
The companions washed in the brook, then returned to relax on soft moss beds to 
revel in the silent peacefulness around them.
All except Tanis. Refusing food, the half-elf wandered around the grove, 
absorbed in his own thoughts. Tasslehoff watched him closely, eaten alive by 
curiosity.
Laurana was a perfect, charming hostess. She made certain everyone was seated 
and comfortable, speaking a few words to each of them.
"Flint Fireforge, isn't it?" she said. The dwarf flushed with pleasure. "I still 
have some of the wonderful toys you made me. We have missed you, these many 
years."
So flustered he couldn't talk, Flint plopped down on the grass and gulped down a 
huge mug of water.
"You are Tika?" Laurana asked, stopping by the barmaid.
"Tika Waylan," the girl said huskily.
"Tika, what a pretty name. And what beautiful hair you have," Laurana said, 
reaching out to touch the bouncy red curls admiringly.
"Do you think so?" Tika said, blushing, seeing Caramon's eyes on her.
"Of course! It is the color of flame. You must have a spirit to match. I heard 
how you saved my brother's life in the Inn, Tika. I am deeply indebted to you."
"Thank you," Tika answered softly. "Your hair is real pretty too."
Laurana smiled and moved on. Tasslehoff noticed, however, that her eyes 
constantly strayed to Tanis. When the half-elf suddenly threw down an apple and 
disappeared into the trees, Laurana excused herself hurriedly and followed.
"Ah, now I'll find out what's going on!" Tas said to himself.
Glancing around, he slipped after Tanis.
Tas crept along the winding trail among the trees and suddenly came upon the 
half-elf standing beside the foaming stream alone, tossing dead leaves into the 
water. Seeing movement to his left, Tas quickly crouched down into a clump of 
bushes as Laurana emerged from another trail.
"Tanthalas Quisif nan-Pahf" she called.
As Tanis turned at the sound of his elven name, she flung her arms around his 
neck, kissing him. "Ugh," she said teasingly, pulling back. "Shave off that 
horrible beard. It itches! And you don't look like Tanthalas anymore."
Tanis put his hands to her waist and gently pushed her away.
"Laurana-" he began.
"No, don't be mad about the beard. I'll learn to like it, if you insist," 
Laurana pleaded, pouting. "Kiss me back. No? Then I'll kiss you until you cannot 
help yourself." She kissed him again until finally Tanis broke free of her grip.
"Stop it, Laurana," he said harshly, turning away.
"Why, what's the matter?" she asked, catching hold of his hand. "You've been 
gone so many years. And now you're back. Don't be cold and gloomy. You are my 
betrothed, remember? It is proper for a girl to kiss her betrothed."
"That was a long time ago," Tanis said. "We were children, then, playing a game, 
nothing more. It was romantic, a secret to share. You know what would have 
happened if your father had found out. Gilthanas did find out, didn't he?"
"Of course! I told him," Laurana said, hanging her head, looking up at Tanis 
through her long eyelashes. "I tell Gilthanas everything, you know that. I 
didn't think he'd react like that! I know what he said to you. He told me later. 
He felt badly."
"I'll bet he did." Tanis gripped her wrists, holding her hands still. "What he 
said was true, Laurana! I am a bastard half-breed. Your father would have every 
right to kill me! How could I bring disgrace down on him, after what he did for 
my mother and me? That was one reason I left-that and to find out who I am and 
where I belong."
"You are Tanthalas, my beloved, and you belong here!" Laurana cried. She broke 
free of his grip and caught his hands in her own. "Look! You wear my ring still. 
I know why you left. It was because you were afraid to love me, but you don't 
need to be, not anymore. Everything's changed. Father has so much to worry 
about, he won't mind. Besides, you're a hero now. Please, let us be married. 
Isn't that why you came back?"
"Laurana," Tanis spoke gently but firmly, "my returning was an accident-"
"No!" she cried, pushing him away. "I don't believe you."
"You must have heard Gilthanas's story. If Porthios had not rescued us, we would 
have been in Pax Tharkas now!"
"He made it up! He didn't want to tell me the truth. You came back because you 
love me. I won't listen to anything else."
"I didn't want to tell you, but I see that I must," Tanis said, exasperated. 
"Laurana, I'm in love with someone else-a human woman. Her name is Kitiara. That 
doesn't mean I don't love you, too. I do-" Tanis faltered.
Laurana stared at him, all color drained from her face.
"I do love you, Laurana. But, you see, I can't marry you, because I love her, 
too. My heart is divided, just like my blood." He took off the ring of golden 
ivy leaves and handed it to her. "I release you from any promises you made to 
me, Laurana. And I ask you to release me."
Laurana took the ring, unable to speak. She looked at Tanis pleadingly, then, 
seeing only pity in his face, shrieked and flung the ring away from her. It fell 
at Tas's feet. He picked it up and slipped it into a pouch.
"Laurana," Tanis said sorrowfully, taking her in his arms as she sobbed wildly. 
"I'm so sorry. I never meant-"
At this point, Tasslehoff slipped out of the brush and made his way back up the 
trail.
"Well," said the kender to himself, sighing in satisfaction, "now at least I 
know what's going on."
Tanis awoke suddenly to find Gilthanas standing over him. "Laurana?" he asked, 
getting to his feet.
"She is all right," Gilthanas said quietly. "Her maidens brought her home. She 
told me what you said. I just want you to know I understand. It was what I 
feared all along. The human half of you cries to other humans. I tried to tell 
her, hoping she wouldn't get hurt. She will listen to me now. Thank you, 
Tanthalas. I know it cannot have been easy."
"It wasn't," Tanis said, swallowing. "I'm going to be honest, Gilthanas-I love 
her, I really do. It's just that-"
"Please, say no more. Let us leave it as it is and perhaps, if we cannot be 
friends, we can at least respect each other." Gilthanas's face was drawn and 
pale in the setting sun. "You and your friends must prepare yourselves. When the 
silver moon rises, there will be a feast, and then the High Council meeting. Now 
is the time when decisions must be made."
He left. Tanis stared after him a moment, then, sighing, went to wake the 
others.
 
 
7
Farewell.
The companions' decision.
 
The feast held in Qualinost reminded Goldmoon of her mother's funeral banquet. 
Like the feast, the funeral was supposed to be a joyous occasion-after all, 
Tearsong had become a goddess. But the people found it difficult to accept the 
death of this beautiful woman. And so the Que-shu mourned her passing with a 
grief that approached blasphemy.
Tearsong's funeral banquet was the most elaborate to be given in the memory of 
the Que-shu. Her grieving husband had spared no expense. Like the banquet in 
Qualinost on this night, there was a great deal of food which few could eat. 
There were half-hearted attempts at conversation when no one wanted to talk. 
Occasionally someone, overcome with sorrow, was forced to leave the table.
So vivid was this memory that Goldmoon could eat little; the food was ash in her 
mouth. Riverwind regarded her with concern. His hand found hers beneath the 
table and she gripped it hard, smiling as his strength flowed into her body.
The elven feast was held in the courtyard just south of the great golden tower. 
There were no walls about the platform of crystal and marble which sat atop the 
highest hill in Qualinost, offering an unobstructed view of the glittering city 
below, the dark forest beyond, and even the deep purple edge of the Tharkadan 
Mountains far to the south. But the beauty was lost on those in attendance, or 
made more poignant by the knowledge that soon it would be gone forever.
Goldmoon sat at the right hand of the Speaker. He tried to make polite 
conversation, but eventually his worries and concerns overwhelmed him and he 
fell silent.
To the Speaker's left sat his daughter, Laurana. She made no pretense at eating, 
just sat with her head bowed, her long hair flowing around her face. When she 
did look up, it was to gaze at Tanis, her heart in her eyes.
The half-elf, very much aware of the heart-broken stare as well as of Gilthanas 
eyeing him coldly, ate his food without appetite, his eyes fixed on his plate. 
Sturm, next to him, was drawing up in his mind plans for the defence of 
Qualinesti.
Flint felt strange and out of place as dwarves always feel among elves. He 
didn't like elven food anyway and refused everything. Raistlin nibbled at his 
food absently, his golden eyes studying Fizban. Tika, feeling awkward and out of 
place among the graceful elven women, couldn't eat a morsel. Caramon decided he 
knew why elves were so slender: the food consisted of fruit and vegetables, 
cooked in delicate sauces, served with bread and cheeses and a very light, spicy 
wine. After starving for four days in the cage, the food did nothing to satisfy 
the big warrior's hunger.
The only two in the entire city of Qualinost to enjoy the feast were Tasslehoff 
and Fizban. The old magician carried on a one sided argument with an aspen, 
while Tasslehoff simply enjoyed everything, discovering later-to his 
surprise-that two golden spoons, a silver knife, and a butter dish made of a 
seashell had wandered into one of his pouches.
The red moon was not visible. Luniatari, a slim band of silver in the sky, began 
to wane. As the first stars appeared, the Speaker of the Suns nodded sadly at 
his son. Gilthanas rose and moved to stand next to his father's chair.
Gilthanas began to sing. The elven words flowed into a melody delicate and 
beautiful. As he sang, Gilthanas held a small crystal lamp in both hands, the 
candlelight within illuminating his marble features. Tanis, listening to the 
song, closed his eyes; his head sank into his hands.
"What is it? What do the words mean?" Sturm asked softly.
Tanis raised his head. His voice breaking, he whispered,
 
The Sun
The splendid eye
Of all our heavens
Dives from the day,
And leaves
The dozing sky,
Spangled with fireflies,
Deepening in gray.
 
The elves about the table stood quietly now, taking up their own lamps as they 
joined in the song. Their voices blended, weaving a haunting song of infinite 
sadness.
 
Now Sleep,
Our oldest friend,
Lulls in the trees
And calls
Us in.
The Leaves
Give off cold fire,
They blaze into ash
At the end of the year.
And birds
Coast on the winds,
And wheel to the North
When Autumn ends.
The day grows dark,
The seasons bare,
But we
Await the sun's
Green fire upon
The trees.
 
Points of flickering lantern light spread from the courtyard like ripples in a 
still, calm pond, through the streets, into the forests and beyond. And, with 
each lamp lit, another voice was raised in song, until the surrounding forest 
itself seemed to sing with despair.
 
The wind
Dives through the days.
By season, by moon
Great kingdoms arise.
The breath
Of firefly, of bird,
Of trees, of mankind
Fades in-a word.
Now Sleep,
Our oldest friend,
Lulls in the trees
And calls
Us in.
The Age,
The thousand lives
Of men and their stories
Go to their graves.
But We,
The people long
In poem and glory
Fade from the song.
 
Gilthanas's voice died away. With a gentle breath, he blew out the flame of his 
lamp. One by one, as they had started, the others around the table ended the 
song and blew out their candles. All through Qualinost, the voices hushed and 
the flames were extinguished until it seemed that silence and darkness swept 
over the land. At the very end, only the distant mountains returned the final 
chords of the song, like the whispering of leaves falling to the ground.
The Speaker stood.
"And now," he said heavily, "it is time for the meeting of the High Council. It 
will be held in the Hall of the Sky, Tanthalas, if you will lead your companions 
there."
The Hall of the Sky, they discovered, was a huge square, lit by torches. The 
giant dome of the heavens, glittering with stars, arched above it. But it was 
dark to the north where lightning played on the horizon. The Speaker motioned to 
Tanis to bring the companions to stand near him, then the entire population of 
Qualinost gathered around them. There was no need to call for silence. Even the 
wind hushed as the Speaker began.
"Here you see our situation." He gestured at something on the ground. The 
companions saw a gigantic map beneath their feet. Tasslehoff, standing in the 
middle of the Plains of Abanasinia, drew in a deep breath. He couldn't remember 
ever seeing anything so wonderful.
"There's Solace!" he cried in excitement, pointing.
"Yes, Kenderkin," the Speaker replied. "And that is where the dragonarmies mass. 
In Solace"-he touched the spot on the map with a staff-"and in Haven. Lord 
Verminaard has made no secret of his plans to invade Qualinesti. He waits only 
to gather his forces and secure his supply routes. We cannot hope to stand 
against such a horde."
"Surely Qualinost is easily defended," Sturm spoke up. "There is no direct route 
overland. We crossed bridges over ravines that no army in existence could get 
through if the bridges were cut. Why do you not stand up to them?"
"If it were only an army, we could defend Qualinesti," the Speaker answered. 
"But what can we do against dragons?" The Speaker spread his hands helplessly. 
"Nothing! According to legends, it was only with the Dragonlance that the mighty 
Huma defeated them. There are none now-at least that we know of-who remember the 
secret of that great weapon."
Fizban started to speak, but Raistlin hushed him.
"No," the Speaker continued, "we must abandon this city and these woods. We plan 
to go west, into the unknown lands there, hoping to find a new home for our 
people-or perhaps even return to Silvanesti, the most ancient elvenhome. Until a 
week ago, our plans were advancing well. It will take three days of forced 
marching for the Dragon Highlord to move his men into attack position and spies 
will inform us when the army leaves Solace. We will have time to escape into the 
west. But then we learned of a third dragonarmy at Pax Tharkas, less than a 
day's journey from us. Unless that army is stopped, we are doomed."
"And you know a way to stop that army?" Tanis asked.
"Yes." The Speaker looked at his youngest son. "As you know, men from Gateway 
and Solace and surrounding communities are being held prisoner in the fortress 
of Pax Tharkas, working as slaves for the Dragon Highlord. Verminaard is clever. 
Lest his slaves revolt, he keeps the women and children of these men hostages, 
ransom for the men's behavior. It is our belief that, were these captives freed, 
the men would turn on their masters and destroy them. It was to have been 
Gilthanas's mission to free the hostages and lead the revolt. He would have 
taken the humans south into the mountains, drawing off this third army in 
pursuit, allowing us time to escape."
"And what of the humans then?" Riverwind asked harshly. "It seems to me you 
throw them to the dragonarmies as a desperate man throws hunks of meat to 
pursuing wolves."
"Lord Verminaard will not keep them alive much longer, we fear. The ore is 
nearly gone. He is gleaning every last little bit, then the slaves' usefulness 
to him will end. There are valleys in the mountains, caves where the humans can 
live and fend off the dragonarmies. They can easily hold the mountain passes 
against them, especially now that winter is setting in. Admittedly, some may 
die, but that is a price that must be paid. If you had the choice, man of the 
Plains, would you rather die in slavery or die fighting?"
Riverwind, not answering, stared down at the map darkly.
"Gilthanas's mission failed," Tanis said, "and now you want us to try and lead 
the revolt?"
"Yes, Tanthalas," the Speaker replied. "Gilthanas knows a way into Pax 
Tharkas-the Sla-Mori. He can lead you into the fortress. You not only have a 
chance to free your own kind, but you offer the elves a chance to escape"-the 
Speaker's voice hardened-"a chance to live that many elves were not given when 
humans brought the Cataclysm down upon us!"
Riverwind glanced up, scowling. Even Sturm's expression darkened. The Speaker 
drew a deep breath, then sighed. "Please forgive me," he said. "I do not mean to 
flog you wit whips from the past. We are not uncaring about the humans' plight. 
I send my son, Gilthanas, with you willingly, knowing that-if we part-we may 
never see each other again. I make this sacrifice, so that my people-and 
yours-may live."
"We must have time to consider," Tanis said, though he knew what his decision 
must be. The Speaker nodded and elven warriors cleared a path through the crowd, 
leading the companions to a grove of trees. Here, they left them alone.
Tanis's friends stood before him, their solemn faces masks of light and shadow 
beneath the stars. All this time, he thought, I have fought to keep us together. 
Now I see that we must separate. We cannot risk taking the Disks into Pax 
Tharkas, and Goldmoon will not leave them behind.
"I will go to Pax Tharkas," Tanis said softly. "But I believe it is time now 
that we separate, my friends. Before you speak, let me say this. I would send 
Tika, Goldmoon, Riverwind, Caramon and Raistlin, and you, Fizban, with the elves 
in hopes that you may carry the Disks to safety. The Disks are too precious to 
risk on a raid into Pax Tharkas."
"That may be, Half-Elf," Raistlin whispered from the depths of his cowl, "but it 
is not among the Qualinesti elves that Goldmoon will find the one she seeks."
"How do you know?" Tanis asked, startled.
"He doesn't know anything, Tanis," Sturm interrupted bitterly. "More talk-"
"Raistlin?" Tanis repeated, ignoring Sturm.
"You heard the knight!" the mage hissed. "I know nothing!"
Tanis sighed, letting it go, and glanced around. "You named me your leader-"
"Aye, we did, lad," said Flint suddenly. "But this decision is coming from your 
head-not your heart. Deep inside, you don't really believe we should split up."
"Well, I'm not staying with these elves," Tika said, folding her arms across her 
chest. "I'm going with you, Tanis. I plan to become a swordswoman, like 
Kitiara."
Tanis winced. Hearing Kitiara's name was like a physical blow.
"I will not hide with elves," Riverwind said, "especially if it means leaving my 
kind behind to fight for me."
"He and I are one," Goldmoon said, putting her hand on his arm. "Besides," she 
said more softly, "somehow I know that what the mage says is true-the leader is 
not among the elves. They want to flee the world, not fight for it."
"We're all going, Tanis," Flint said firmly.
The half-elf looked helplessly around at the group, then he smiled and shook his 
head. "You're right. I didn't truly believe we should separate. It's the 
sensible, logical thing to do, of course, which is why we won't do it."
"Now maybe we can get some sleep." Fizban yawned.
"Wait a minute. Old One," Tanis said sternly. "You are not one of us. You're 
definitely going with the elves."
"Am I?" the old mage asked softly as his eyes lost their vague, unfocused look. 
He stared at Tanis with such a penetrating-almost menacing-gaze that the 
half-elf involuntarily took a step back, suddenly sensing an almost palpable 
aura of power surrounding the old man. His voice was soft and intense. "I go 
where I choose in this world, and I choose to go with you, Tanis Half-Elven."
Raistlin glanced at Tanis as if to say. Now you understand! Tanis, irresolute, 
returned the glance. He regretted putting off discussing this with Raistlin, but 
wondered how they could confer now, knowing the old man would not leave.
"I speak you this, Raistlin," Tanis said suddenly, using Camptalk, a corrupted 
form of Common developed among the racially mixed mercenaries of Krynn. The 
twins had done a bit of mercenary work in their time-as had most of the 
companions-in order to eat. Tanis knew Raistlin would understand. He was fairly 
certain the old man wouldn't.
"We talk if want," Raistlin answered in the same language, "but little know I."
"You fear. Why?"
Raistlin's strange eyes stared far away as he answered slowly. "I know not, 
Tanis. But-you right. There power be, within Old One. I feel great power. I 
fear." His eyes gleamed. "And I hunger!" The mage sighed and seemed to return 
from wherever it was he had been. "But he right. Try to stop him? Very much 
danger."
"As if there wasn't enough already," Tanis said bitterly, switching back to 
Common. "We take our own in with us in the form of a doddering old magician."
"Others there are, as dangerous, perhaps," Raistlin said, with a meaningful look 
at his brother. The mage returned to Common. "I am weary. I must sleep. Are you 
staying, brother?"
"Yes," Caramon answered, exchanging glances with Sturm.
"We're going to talk with Tanis."
Raistlin nodded and gave his arm to Fizban. The old mage and the young one left, 
the old mage lashing out at a tree with his staff, accusing it of trying to 
sneak up on him.
"As if one crazed mage wasn't bad enough," Flint muttered.
"I'm going to bed."
One by one the others left until Tanis stood with Caramon and Sturm. Wearily, 
Tanis turned to face them. He had a feeling he knew what this was going to be 
about. Caramon's face was flushed and he stared at his feet. Sturm stroked his 
moustaches and regarded Tanis thoughtfully.
"Well?" Tanis asked.
"Gilthanas," Sturm answered.
Tanis frowned and scratched his beard. "That's my business, not yours," he said 
shortly.
"It is our business, Tanis," Sturm persisted, "if he's leading us into Pax 
Tharkas. We don't want to pry, but it's obvious there's a score to settle 
between you two. I've seen his eyes when he looks at you, Tanis, and, if I were 
you, I wouldn't go anywhere without a friend at my back."
Caramon looked at Tanis earnestly, his brow furrowed. "I know he's an elf and 
all," the big man said slowly. "But, like Sturm says, he gets a funny look in 
his eyes sometimes. Don't you know the way to this Sla-Mori? Can't we find it 
ourselves? I don't trust him. Neither do Sturm or Raist."
"Listen, Tanis," Sturm said, seeing the half-elf's face darken with anger. "If 
Gilthanas was in such danger in Solace as he claimed, why was he casually 
sitting in the Inn? And then there's this story about his warriors 
'accidentally' running into a whole damn army! Tanis-don't shake your head so 
quickly. He may not be evil, just misguided. What if Verminaard's got some hold 
over him? Perhaps the Dragon Highlord convinced him he'd spare his people if-in 
return-he betrays us! Maybe that's why he was in Solace, waiting for us."
"That's ridiculous!" Tanis snapped. "How would he know we were coming?"
"We didn't exactly keep our journey from Xak Tsaroth to Solace secret," Sturm 
returned coldly. "We saw draconians all along the way and those that escaped Xak 
Tsaroth must have realized we came for the Disks. Verminaard probably knows our 
descriptions better than he knows his own mother."
"No! I don't believe it!" Tanis said angrily, glaring at Sturm and Caramon. "You 
two are wrong! I'll stake my life on'it. I grew up with Gilthanas, I know him! 
Yes, there is a score to settle between us, but we have discussed it and the 
matter is closed. I'll believe he's turned traitor to his people the day I 
believe you or Caramon turn traitor. And no, I don't know the way to Pax 
Tharkas. I've never been there. And one more thing," Tanis shouted, now in a 
fury, "if there's people I don't trust in this group it's that brother of yours 
and that old man!" He stared accusingly at Caramon.
The big man grew pale and lowered his eyes. He began to turn away. Tanis came to 
his senses, suddenly realizing what he had said. "I'm sorry, Caramon." He put 
his hand on the warrior's arm. "I didn't mean that. Raistlin's saved our lives 
more than once on this insane journey. It's just that I can't believe Gilthanas 
is a traitor!"
"We know, Tanis," Sturm said quietly. "And we trust your judgment. But-it's too 
dark a night to walk with your eyes closed, as my people say."
Tanis sighed and nodded. He put his other hand on Sturm's arm. The knight 
clasped him and the three men stood in silence, then they left the grove and 
walked back to the Hall of the Sky. They could still hear the Speaker talking 
with his warriors.
"What does Sla-Mori mean?" Caramon asked.
"Secret Way," Tanis answered.
Tanis woke with a start, his hand on the dagger at his belt. A dark shape 
crouched over him in the night, blotting out the stars overhead. Reaching up 
quickly, he grabbed hold of and yanked the person down across his body, putting 
his dagger to the exposed throat.
"Tanthalas!" There was a small scream at the sight of the steel flashing in the 
starlight.
"Laurana!" Tanis gasped.
Her body pressed against his. He could feel her trembling and, now that he was 
fully awake, he could see the long hair flowing loosely about her shoulders. She 
was dressed only in a flimsy nightdress. Her cloak had fallen off in the brief 
struggle.
Acting on impulse, Laurana had risen from her bed and slipped out into the 
night, throwing a cloak around her to protect her from the cold. Now she lay 
across Tanis's chest, too frightened to move. This was a side of Tanis she had 
never known existed. She realized suddenly that if she had been an enemy, she 
would be dead now-her throat slit.
"Laurana ..." Tanis repeated, thrusting the dagger back into his belt with a 
shaking hand. He pushed her away and sat up angry at himself for frightening her 
and angry at her for awakenmg something deep within him. For an instant, when 
she lay on top of him, he was acutely conscious only of the smell of her hair, 
the warmth of her slender body, the play of the muscles in her thighs, the 
softness of her small breasts. Laurana had been a girl when he left. He returned 
to find a woman-a very beautiful, desirable woman.
"What in the name of the Abyss are you doing here at this time of night?"
"Tanthalas," she said, choking, pulling her cape around her tightly. "I came to 
ask you to change your mind. Let your friends go to free the humans in Pax 
Tharkas. You must come with us! Don't throw your life away. My father is 
desperate. He doesn't believe this will work-I know he doesn't. But he hasn't 
any choice! He's already mourning Gilthanas as if he were dead. I'm going to 
lose my brother. I can't lose you, too!" She began to sob. Tanis glanced around 
hastily. There were almost certainly elven guards around. If the elves caught 
him in this compromising situation. . . .
"Laurana," he said, gripping her shoulders and shaking her. "You're not a child 
anymore. You've got to grow up and grow up fast. I wouldn't let my friends face 
danger without me! I know the risks we're taking; I'm not blind! But if we can 
free the humans from Verminaard and give you and your people time to escape, 
it's a chance we have to take! There comes a time, Laurana, when you've got to 
risk your life for something you believe in-something that means more than life 
itself. Do you understand?"
She looked up at him through a mass of golden hair. Her sobs stopped and she 
ceased to tremble. She stared at him very intently.
"Do you understand, Laurana?" he repeated.
"Yes, Tanthalas," she answered softly. "I understand."
"Good!" He sighed. "Now go back to bed. Quickly. You've put me in danger. If 
Gilthanas saw us like this-"
Laurana stood up and walked swiftly from the grove, flitting along the streets 
and buildings like the wind among the aspens.
Sneaking past the guards to get back inside her father's dwelling was simple-she 
and Gilthanas had been doing it since childhood. Returning quietly to her room, 
she stood outside her father's and mother's door for a moment, listening. There 
was light inside. She could hear parchment rustling, smell an acrid odor. Her 
father was burning papers. She heard her mother's soft murmur, calling her 
father to bed. Laurana closed her eyes for a moment in silent agony, then her 
lips tightened in firm resolve, and she ran down the dark, chill hallway to her 
bedchamber.
 
 
8
Doubts. Ambush!.
A new friend.
 
The elves woke the companions before dawn. Storm clouds lowered on the northern 
horizon, reaching like grasping fingers toward Qualinesti. Gilthanas arrived 
after breakfast, dressed in a tunic of blue cloth and suit of chain mail.
"We have supplies," he said, gesturing toward the warriors who held packs in 
their hands. "We can also provide weapons or armament, if you have need."
"Tika needs armor and shield and sword," said Caramon.
"We will provide what we can," Gilthanas said, "though I doubt if we have a full 
set of armor small enough."
"How is Theros Ironfeld this morning?" Goldmoon asked.
"He rests comfortably, cleric of Mishakal." Gilthanas bowed respectfully to 
Goldmoon. "My people will, of course, take him with them when we leave. You may 
bid him farewell."
Elves soon returned with armor of every make and description for Tika and a 
lightweight shortsword, favored by the elven women. Tika's eyes glowed when she 
saw the helm and shield. Both were of elvish design, tooled and decorated with 
jewels.
Gilthanas took the helm and shield from the elf. "I have yet to thank you for 
saving my life in the Inn," he said to Tika. "Accept these. They are my mother's 
ceremonial armor, dating back to the time of the Kinslayer wars. These would 
have gone to my sister, but Laurana and I both believe you are the proper 
owner."
"How beautiful," Tika murmured, blushing. She accepted the helm, then looked at 
the rest of the armor in confusion. "I don't know what goes where," she 
confessed.
"I'll help!" Caramon offered eagerly.
"I'll handle this," Goldmoon said firmly. Picking up the armor, she led Tika 
into a grove of trees.
"What does she know about armor?" Caramon grumbled.
Riverwind looked at the warrior and smiled, the rare, infrequent smile that 
softened his stem face. "You forget," he said, "she is Chieftain's Daughter. It 
was her duty, in her father' absence, to lead the tribe to war. She knows a 
great deal about armor, warrior-and even more about the heart that beats beneath 
it."
Caramon flushed. Nervously, he picked up a pack of supplies and glanced inside. 
"What's this junk?" he asked.
"Quith-pa',' said Gilthanas. "Iron rations, in your language. It will last us 
for many weeks, if need be."
"It looks like dried fruit!" Caramon said in disgust.
"That's what it is," Tanis replied, grinning.
Caramon groaned.
Dawn was just beginning to tinge the wispy storm clouds with a pale, chill light 
when Gilthanas led the party out of Qualinesti. Tanis kept his eyes straight 
ahead, refusing to look back. He wished that his final trip here could have been 
happier. He had not seen Laurana all morning and, though he felt relieved to 
have avoided a tearful farewell, he secretly wondered why she hadn't come to bid 
him goodbye.
The trail moved south, descending gradually but constantly. It had been thick 
and overgrown with brush, but the party of warriors Gilthanas led before had 
cleared it as they moved, so that walking was relatively easy. Caramon walked 
beside Tika, resplendent in her mismatched armor, instructing her on the use of 
her sword. Unfortunately, the teacher was having a bad time of it.
Goldmoon had slit Tika's red barmaid skirt up to her thighs for easier movement. 
Bits of fluffy white from Tika's fur-trimmed undergarments peeped enticingly 
through the slits. Her legs were visible as she walked, and the girl's legs were 
just as Caramon had always imagined-round and well-formed. Thus Caramon found it 
rather difficult to concentrate on his lesson. Absorbed in his pupil, he did not 
notice that his brother had disappeared.
"Where's the young mage?" Gilthanas asked harshly.
"Maybe something's happened to him," Caramon said worriedly, cursing himself for 
forgetting his brother. The warrior drew his sword and started back along the 
trail.
"Nonsense!" Gilthanas stopped him. "What could have happened to him? There is no 
enemy for miles. He must have gone off somewhere-for some purpose."
"What are you saying?" Caramon asked, glowering.
"Maybe he left to-"
"To collect what I need for the making of my magic, elf," Raistlin whispered, 
emerging from the brush. "And to replenish the herbs that heal my cough."
"Raist!" Caramon nearly hugged him in his relief. "You shouldn't go off by 
yourself-it's dangerous."
"My spell components are secret," Raistlin whispered irritably, shoving his 
brother away. Leaning on the Staff of Magius, the mage rejoined Fizban in the 
line.
Gilthanas cast a sharp glance at Tanis, who shrugged and shook his head. As the 
group continued on, the trail became steeper and steeper, leading down from the 
aspenwoods to the pines of the lowlands. It joined up with a clear brook that 
soon became a raging stream as they traveled farther south.
When they stopped for a hasty lunch, Fizban came over and hunkered down beside 
Tanis. "Someone's following us," he said in a penetrating whisper.
"What?" Tanis asked, his head snapping up to stare at the old man incredulously.
"Yes, indeed," the old mage nodded solemnly. "I've seen it- darting in and out 
among the trees."
Sturm saw Tanis's look of concern. "What's the matter?"
"The Old One says someone's following us."
"Bah!" Gilthanas threw down his last bit of quith-pa in disgust and stood up. 
"That's insane. Let us go now. The Sla-Mori is still many miles and we must be 
there by sundown."
"I'll take rear guard," Sturm said to Tanis softly.
They walked through the ragged pines for several more hours. The sun slanted 
down in the sky, lengthening shadows across the trail, when the group came 
suddenly to a clearing.
"Hsst!" Tanis warned, falling back in alarm.
Caramon, instantly alert, drew his sword, motioning for Sturm and his brother 
with his free hand.
"What is it?" piped Tasslehoff. "I can't see!"
"Shhh!" Tanis glared at the kender, and Tas clapped his own hand over his own 
mouth to save Tanis the trouble.
The clearing was the site of a recent bloody fight. Bodies of men and hobgoblins 
lay scattered about in the obscene postures of brutal death. The companions 
looked about fearfully and listened for long minutes but could hear nothing 
above the roar of the water.
"No enemy for miles!" Sturm glared at Gilthanas and started to step out into the 
clearing.
"Wait!" Tanis said. "I thought I saw something move!"
"Maybe one of them's still alive," Sturm said coolly and walked forward. The 
rest followed more slowly. A low moaning sound came from beneath two hobgoblin 
bodies. The warriors walked toward the carnage, swords level.
"Caramon . . ." Tanis gestured.
The big warrior shoved the bodies to one side. Beneath was a moaning figure.
"Human," Caramon reported. "And covered with blood. Unconscious, I think."
The rest came up to look at the man on the ground. Goldmoon started to kneel 
down, but Caramon stopped her.
"No, lady," he said gently. "It would be senseless to heal him if we just have 
to kill him again. Remember-humans fought for the Dragon Highlord in Solace."
The group gathered round to examine the man. He wore chain mail that was of good 
quality, if rather tarnished. His clothes were rich, though the cloth had worn 
thin in places. He appeared to be in his late thirties. His hair was thick and 
black, his chin firm, and his features regular. The stranger opened his eyes and 
stared up at the companions blearily.
"Thank the gods of the Seekers!" he said hoarsely. "My friends-are they all 
dead?"
"Worry about yourself first," Sturm said sternly. "Tell us who your friends 
were-the humans or the hobgoblins?"
'The humans-fighters against the dragonmen." The man broke off, his eyes 
widening. "Gilthanas?"
"Eben," Gilthanas said in quiet surprise. "How did you survive the battle at the 
ravine?"
"How did you, for that matter?" The man named Eben tried to stagger to his feet. 
Caramon reached out a hand to help him when suddenly Eben pointed. "Look out! 
Drac-"
Caramon whipped around, letting Eben fall back with a groan. The others 
turned'to see twelve draconians standing at the edge of the clearing, weapons 
drawn.
"All strangers in the land are to be taken to the Dragon Highlord for 
questioning," one called out. "We charge you to come with us peacefully."
"No one was supposed to know about this path to Sla-Mori," Sturm whispered to 
Tanis with a meaningful glance at Gilthanas. "According to the elf, that is!"
"We do not take orders from Lord Verminaard!" Tanis yelled, ignoring Sturm.
"You will, soon enough," the draconian said and waved its arm. The creatures 
surged forward to attack.
Fizban, standing near the edge of the woods, pulled something from his pouch and 
began to mumble a few words.
"Not Fireball!" Raistlin hissed, grabbing the old mage's arm. "You'll incinerate 
everyone out there!"
"Oh, really? I suppose you're right." The old mage sighed in disappointment, 
then brightened. "Wait-I'll think of something else."
"Just stay here, under cover!" Raistlin ordered. "I'm going to my brother."
"Now, what was that web spell?" The old man pondered.
Tika, her new sword drawn and ready, trembled with fear and excitement. One 
draconian rushed her and she swung a tremendous blow. The blade missed the 
draconian by a mile, Caramon's head by inches. Pulling Tika behind him, he 
knocked the draconian down with the flat of his sword. Before it could rise, he 
stepped on its throat, breaking its neck.
"Get behind me," he said to Tika, then glanced down at the sword she was still 
waving around wildly. "On second thought," Caramon amended nervously, "run over 
to those trees with the old man and Goldmoon. There's a good girl."
"I will not!" Tika said indignantly. "I'll show him," she muttered, her sweaty 
palms slipping on the hilt of the sword. Two more draconians charged Caramon, 
but his brother was beside him now-the two combining magic and steel to destroy 
their enemy. Tika knew she would only get in their way, and she feared 
Raistlin's anger more than she feared draconians. She looked around to see if 
anyone needed her help. Sturm and Tanis fought side by side. Gilthanas made an 
unlikely team with Flint, while Tasslehoff-his hoopak planted solidly in the 
ground-sent a deadly barrage of rocks whizzing onto the field. Goldmoon stood 
beneath the trees, Riverwind near her.
The old magician had pulled out a spellbook and was flipping through its pages.
"Web . . . web . . . how did that go?" he mumbled.
"Aaarrrgghh!" A screech behind Tika nearly caused her to swallow her tongue. 
Whirling around, she dropped her sword in alarm as a draconian, laughing 
horribly, launched itself into the air straight at her. Panic-stricken, Tika 
gripped her shield in both hands and struck the draconian in its hideous, 
reptilian face. The impact nearly jarred the shield from her hands, but it 
knocked the creature onto its back, unconscious. Tika picked up her sword and, 
grimacing in disgust, stabbed the creature through the heart. Its body 
immediately turned to stone, encasing her sword. Tika yanked at it, but it 
remained stuck fast.
"Tika, to your left!" yelled Tasslehoff shrilly.
Tika stumbled around and saw another draconian. Swinging her shield, she blocked 
its sword thrust. Then, with a strength born of terror, she hit at the creature 
again and again with her shield, knowing only that she had to kill the thing. 
She kept bashing until she felt a hand on her arm. Whipping around, her 
blood-stained shield ready, she saw Caramon.
"It's all right!" the big warrior said soothingly. "It's all over, Tika. They're 
all dead. You did fine, just fine."
Tika blinked. For a moment she didn't recognize the warrior. Then, with a 
shudder, she lowered her shield.
"I wasn't very good with the sword," she said, starting to tremble in reaction 
to her fear and the memory of the horrible creature lunging at her.
Caramon saw her start to shake. He reached out and clasped her in his arms, 
stroking the sweat-damp red curls.
"You were braver than many men I've seen-experienced warriors," the big man said 
in a deep voice.
Tika looked up into Caramon's eyes. Her terror melted away, replaced by 
exultation. She pressed against Caramon. The feel of his hard muscles, the smell 
of sweat mingled with leather, increased her excitement. Tika flung her arms 
around his neck and kissed him with such violence her teeth bit into his lip. 
She tasted blood in her mouth.
Caramon, astonished, felt the tingle of pain, an odd contrast to the softness of 
her lips, and was overwhelmed with desire. He wanted this woman more than any 
other woman-and there had been many-in his life. He forgot where he was, who was 
around him. His brain and his blood were on fire, and he ached with the pain of 
his passion. Crushing Tika to his chest, he held her and kissed her with 
bruising intensity.
The pain of his embrace was delicious to Tika. She longed for the pain to grow 
and envelop her, but at the same time, she felt suddenly cold and afraid. 
Remembering stories told by the other barmaids of the terrible, wonderful things 
that happened between men and women, she began to panic.
Caramon completely lost all sense of reality. He caught Tika up in his arms with 
a wild idea of carrying her into the woods, when he felt a cold, familiar hand 
on his shoulder.
The big man stared at his brother and regained his senses with a gasp. He gently 
set Tika on her feet. Dizzy and disoriented, she opened her eyes to see Raistlin 
standing beside his brother, regarding her with his strange, glittering stare.
Tika's face burned. She backed away, stumbled over the body of the draconian, 
then picked up her shield and ran.
Caramon swallowed, cleared his throat, and started to say something, but 
Raistlin simply glanced at him in disgust and walked back to rejoin Fizban. 
Caramon, trembling like a newborn colt, sighed shakily and walked over to where 
Sturm, Tanis, and Gilthanas stood, talking to Eben.
"No, I'm fine," the man assured them. "I just felt a little faint when I saw 
those creatures, that's all. You really have a cleric among you? That's 
wonderful, but don't waste her healing powers on me. Just a scratch. It's more 
their blood than mine. My party and I were tracking these draconians through the 
woods when we were attacked by at least forty hobgoblins."
"And you alone live to tell the tale," Gilthanas said.
"Yes," Eben replied, returning the elf's suspicious gaze. "I am an expert 
swordsman-as you know. I killed these"-he gestured to the bodies of six 
hobgoblins who lay around him- "then fell to the overwhelming numbers. The rest 
must have assumed I was dead and left me. But, enough of my heroics. You fellows 
are pretty good with swords yourselves. Where are you headed?"
"Some place called the Sla-" began Caramon, but Gilthanas cut him off.
"Our journey is secret," Gilthanas said. Then he added in a tentative voice. "We 
could use an expert swordsman."
"As long as you're fighting draconians, your fight is my fight," Eben said 
cheerfully. He pulled his pack out from under the body of a hobgoblin and slung 
it over his shoulder.
"My name's Eben Shatterstone. I come from Gateway. You've probably heard of my 
family," he said. "We had one of the most impressive mansions west of-"
"That's it!" cried Fizban. "I remembered!"
Suddenly the air was filled with strands of sticky, floating cobweb.
The sun set just as the group reached an open plain edged by tall mountain 
peaks. Rivaling the mountains for dominance of the land before it was the 
gigantic fortress known as Pax Tharkas, which guarded the pass between the 
mountains. The companions stared at it in awed silence.
Tika's eyes widened at the sight of the massive twin towers soaring into the 
sky. "I've never seen anything so big! Who built it? They must have been 
powerful men."
"It was not men," said Flint sadly. The dwarf's beard quivered as he looked at 
Pax Tharkas with a wistful expression. "It was elves and dwarves working 
together. Once, long ago, when times were peaceful."
"The dwarf speaks truly," Gilthanas said. "Long ago Kith-Kanan broke his 
father's heart and left the ancient home of Silvanesti. He and his people came 
to the beautiful woods given them by the Emperor of Ergoth following the 
scribing of the Swordsheath Scroll that ended the Kinslayer wars. Elves have 
lived in Qualinesti for long centuries since Kith-Kanan's death. His greatest 
achievement, however, was the building of Pax Tharkas. Standing between elven 
and dwarven kingdoms, it was constructed by both in a spirit of friendship since 
lost on Krynn. It grieves me to see it now, the bastion of a mighty war 
machine."
Even as Gilthanas spoke, the companions saw the huge gate that stood at the 
front of Pax Tharkas swing open. An army-long rows of draconians, hobgoblins, 
and goblins-marched out into the plains. The sound of braying horns echoed back 
from the mountaintops. Watching them from above was a great red dragon. The 
companions cowered among the scrub brush and trees. Though the dragon was too 
far away to see them, the dragonfear touched them even from this distance.
"They march on Qualinesti," Gilthanas said, his voice breaking. "We must get 
inside and free the prisoners. Then Verminaard will be forced to call the army 
back."
"You're going inside Pax Tharkas!" Eben gasped.
"Yes," Gilthanas answered reluctantly, apparently regretting he had said so 
much.
"Whew!" Eben blew out a deep breath. "You people have guts, I'll give you that. 
So-how do we get in there? Wait until the army leaves? There will probably be 
only a couple of guards at the front gate. We could handle them easily, couldn't 
we, big man?" He nudged Caramon.
"Sure," Caramon grinned.
"That is not the plan," Gilthanas said coldly. The elf pointed to a narrow vale 
leading into the mountains, just visible in the rapidly fading light. "There is 
our way. We will cross in the cover of darkness."
He stood up and started off. Tanis hurried forward to catch up with him. "What 
do you know of this Eben?" the half-elf asked in elven, glancing back to where 
the man was chatting with Tika.
Gilthanas shrugged. "He was with the band of humans who fought with us at the 
ravine. Those who survived were taken to Solace and died there. I suppose he 
could have escaped. I did, after all," Gilthanas said, glancing sideways at 
Tanis. "He comes from Gateway where his father and father before him were 
wealthy merchants. The others told me, when he was out of hearing, that his 
family lost their money and he has since earned his living by his sword."
"I figured as much," Tanis said. "His clothes are rich, but they've seen better 
days. You made the right decision, bringing him along."
"I dared not leave him behind," Gilthanas answered grimly. "One of us should 
keep an eye on him."
"Yes." Tanis fell silent.
"And on me, too, you're thinking," Gilthanas said in a tight voice. "I know what 
the others say-the knight especially. But, I swear to you, Tanis, I'm not a 
traitor! I want one thing!" The elf's eyes gleamed feverishly in the dying 
light. "I want to destroy this Verminaard. If you could have seen him as his 
dragon destroyed my people! I'd gladly sacrifice my life-" Gilthanas stopped 
abruptly.
"And our lives as well?" Tanis asked.
As Gilthanas turned to face him, his almond-shaped eyes regarding Tanis without 
emotion. "If you must know, Tanthalas, your life means that-" He snapped his 
fingers. "But the lives of my people are everything to me. That is all I care 
for now." He walked on ahead as Sturm caught up with them.
"Tanis," he said. "The old man was right. We are being followed."
 
 
9
Suspicions grow.
The Sla-Mori.
 
The narrow trail climbed steeply up from the plains into a wooded valley in the 
foothills. Evening's shadows gathered close around them as they followed the 
stream up into the mountain. They had traveled only a short distance, however, 
when Gilthanas left the trail and disappeared into the brush. The companions 
stopped, looking at each other doubtfully.
"This is madness," Eben whispered to Tanis. "Trolls live in this valley-who do 
you think made that trail?" The darkhaired man took Tanis's arm with a cool 
familiarity the half-elf found disconcerting. "Admittedly, I'm the new kid in 
town, so to speak, and the gods know you don't have any reason to trust me, but 
how much do you know about this Gilthanas?"
"I know-" Tanis began, but Eben ignored him.
"There were some of us who didn't believe that draconian army stumbled onto us 
by accident, if you take my meaning. My boys and I had been hiding in the hills, 
fighting the dragonarmies ever since they hit Gateway. Last week, these elves 
showed up out of nowhere. They told us they were going to raid one of the Dragon 
Highlord's fortresses and would we like to come along and help? We said, sure, 
why not-anything to stick a bone in the Dragon High Man's craw.
"As we hiked, we began to get really nervous. There were draconian tracks all 
over the place! But it didn't bother the elves. Gilthanas said the tracks were 
old. That night we made camp and posted a watch. It didn't do us a lot of good, 
just gave us about twenty seconds warning before the draconians hit. And-" Eben 
glanced around and moved even closer- "while we were trying to wake up, grab our 
weapons, and fight those foul creatures, I heard the elves calling out, as if 
someone was lost. And who do you suppose they were calling for?"
Eben regarded Tanis intently. The half-elf frowned and shook his head, irritated 
at the dramatics.
"Gilthanas!" Eben hissed. "He was gone! They shouted and shouted for him-their 
leader!" The man shrugged. "Whether he ever showed up or not, I don't know. I 
was captured. They took us to Solace, where I got away. Anyway, I'd think twice 
about following that elf. He may have had good reason to be gone when the 
draconians attacked, but-"
"I've known Gilthanas a long time," Tanis interrupted gruffly, more disturbed 
than he wanted to admit.
"Sure. Just thought you should know," Eben said, smiling sympathetically. He 
clapped Tanis on the back and dropped back to stand by Tika.
Tanis didn't have to look around to know Caramon and Sturm had heard every word. 
Neither said anything, however, and before Tanis could talk to them, Gilthanas 
appeared suddenly, slipping out from among the trees.
"It is not much farther," the elf said. "The brush thins up ahead and the 
walking is easier."
"I say we just go in the front gate" Eben said.
"I agree," Caramon said. The big man glanced at his brother who sat limply 
beneath a tree. Goldmoon was pale with fatigue. Even Tasslehoff's head hung 
wearily.
"We could camp here tonight and go in by the front gates at dawn," Sturm 
suggested.
"We stick to the original plan," Tanis said sharply. "We make camp once we reach 
the Sla-Mori."
Then Flint spoke up. "You can go ring the bell at the gate and ask Lord 
Verminaard to let you in if you want, Sturm Brightblade. I'm sure he'd oblige. 
C'mon, Tanis." The dwarf stumped off down the trail.
"At least," Tanis said to Sturm in a low voice, "maybe this will throw off our 
pursuer."
"Whoever or whatever it is," Sturm answered. "It's woodscrafty, I'll say that 
for it. Every time I caught a glimpse and started back for a closer look, it 
vanished. I thought about ambushing it, but there wasn't time."
The group emerged from the brush thankfully, arriving at the base of a gigantic 
granite cliff. Gilthanas walked along the cliff face for several hundred feet, 
his hand feeling for something on the rock. Suddenly he stopped.
"We are here," he whispered. Reaching into his tunic, he removed a small gem 
that began to glow a soft, muted yellow. Running his hand over the rock wall, 
the elf found what he was searching for-a small niche in the granite. He placed 
the gem in the niche and began reciting ancient words and tracing unseen symbols 
in the night air.
"Very impressive," whispered Fizban. "I didn't know he was one of us," he said 
to Raistlin.
"A dabbler, nothing more," the mage replied. Leaning wearily on his staff, he 
watched Gilthanas intently, however.
Suddenly and silently, a huge block of stone separated from the cliff face and 
began moving slowly to one side. The companions backed up as a blast of chill, 
dank air flowed from the gaping hole in the rock.
"What's in there?" Caramon asked suspiciously.
"I do not know what is in there now," Gilthanas replied. "I have never entered. 
I know of this place only through the lore of my people."
"All right," Caramon growled. "What used to be in there?"
Gilthanas paused, then said. "This was the burial chamber of Kith-Kanan."
"More spooks," Flint grumbled, peering into the darkness. "Send the mage in 
first, so he can warn them we're coming."
"Throw the dwarf in," Raistlin returned. "They are accustomed to living in dark, 
dank caves."
"You speak of the mountain dwarves!" Flint said, his beard bristling. "It has 
been long years since the hill dwarves lived below ground in the kingdom of 
Thorbardin."
"Only because you were cast out!" Raistlin hissed.
"Stop it, both of you!" Tanis said in exasperation. "Raistlin, what do you sense 
about this place?"
"Evil. Great evil," the mage replied.
"But I sense great goodness, too," Fizban spoke unexpectedly. "The elves are not 
truly forgotten within, though evil things have come to rule in their stead."
"This is crazy!" Eben shouted. The noise echoed uncannily among the rocks and 
the others whirled, startled, staring at him in alarm. "I'm sorry," he said, 
dropping his voice. "But I can't believe you people are going in there! It 
doesn't take a magician to tell there's evil inside that hole. I can feel it! Go 
back around to the front," he urged. "Sure, there'll be one or two guards-but 
that's nothing compared to whatever lurks in that darkness beyond!"
"He's got a point, Tanis," Caramon said. "You can't fight the dead. We learned 
that in Darken Wood."
"This is the only way!" Gilthanas said angrily. "If you are such cowards-"
"There's a difference between caution and cowardice, Gilthanas," Tanis said, his 
voice steady and calm. The half-elf thought a moment. "We might be able to take 
on the guards at the front gate, but not before they could alert others. I say 
we enter and at least explore this way. Flint, you lead. Raistlin, we'll need 
your light."
"Shirak" spoke the mage softly, and the crystal on his staff began to glow. He 
and Flint plunged into the cave, followed closely by the rest. The tunnel they 
entered was obviously ancient, but whether it was natural or artifact was 
impossible to tell.
"What about our pursuer?" Sturm asked in a low voice. "Do we leave the entrance 
open?"
"A trap," Tanis agreed softly. "Leave it open just a crack, Gilthanas, enough so 
that whoever's tracking us knows we came in here and can follow, but not enough 
so that it looks like a trap."
Gilthanas drew forth the gem, placed it in a niche on the inner side of the 
entrance, and spoke a few words. The stone began to slide silently back into 
place. At the last moment, when it was about seven or eight inches from closing, 
Gilthanas swiftly removed the gemstone. The stone shuddered to a halt, and the 
knight, the elf, and the half-elf joined the companions in the entrance to the 
Sla-Mori.
"There is a great deal of dust," Raistlin reported, coughing, "but no tracks, at 
least in this part of the cave."
"About one hundred and twenty feet farther on, there's a crossroads," Flint 
added. "We found footprints there, but we could not make out what they were. 
They don't look like draconians or hobgoblins and they don't come this 
direction. The mage says the evil flows from the road to the right."
"We will camp here for the night," Tanis said, "near the entry. We'll post 
double watch-one by the door, one down the corridor. Sturm, you and Caramon 
first. Gilthanas and I, Eben and Riverwind, Flint and Tasslehoff."
"And me," said Tika stoutly, though she couldn't ever remember being so tired in 
her life. "I'll take my turn."
Tanis was glad the darkness hid his smile. "Very well," he said. "You watch with 
Flint and Tasslehoff."
"Good!" Tika replied. Opening her pack, she shook out a blanket and lay down, 
conscious all the while of Caramon's eyes on her. She noticed Eben watching her, 
too. She didn't mind that. She was accustomed to men staring at her admiringly 
and Eben was handsomer even than Caramon. Certainly he was wittier and more 
charming than the big warrior. Still, just the memory of Caramon's arms around 
her made her shiver with delightful fear. She firmly put the memory from her 
mind and tried to get comfortable. The chain mail was cold and it pinched her 
through her blouse. Yet she noticed the others didn't take theirs off. Besides, 
she was tired enough to sleep dressed in a full suit of plate armor. The last 
thing Tika remembered as she drifted off was telling herself she was thankful 
she wasn't alone with Caramon.
Goldmoon saw the warrior's eyes linger on Tika. Whispering something to 
Riverwind-who nodded, smiling-she left him and walked over to Caramon. Touching 
him on the arm, she drew him away from the others into the shadow of the 
corridor.
"Tanis tells me you have an older sister," she stated.
"Yes," Caramon answered, startled. "Kitiara. Though she's my half-sister."
Goldmoon smiled and laid her hand gently on Caramon's arm. "I'm going to talk to 
you like an older sister."
Caramon grinned. "Not like Kitiara, you won't, lady of Que-shu. Kit taught me 
the meaning of every swear word I'd ever heard, plus a few I hadn't. She taught 
me to use a sword and fight with honor in the tournaments, but she also taught 
me how to kick a man in the groin when the judges weren't watching. No, lady, 
you're not much like my older sister."
Goldmoon's eyes opened wide, startled by this portrayal of a woman she guessed 
the half-elf loved. "But I thought she and Tanis, I mean they-"
Caramon winked. "They certainly did!" he said.
Goldmoon drew a deep breath. She hadn't meant the conversation to wander off, 
but it did lead to her subject. "In a way, that's what I wanted to speak to you 
about. Only this has to do with Tika."
"Tika?" Caramon flushed. "She's a big girl. Begging your pardon, I don't see 
that what we do is any of your concern."
"She is a girl, Caramon," Goldmoon said gently. "Don't you understand?"
Caramon looked blank. He knew Tika was a girl. What did Goldmoon mean? Then he 
blinked in sudden understanding and groaned. "No, she isn't-"
"Yes." Goldmoon sighed. "She is. She's never been with a man before. She told 
me, while we were in the grove putting on her armor. She's frightened, Caramon. 
She's heard a lot of stories. Don't rush her. She desperately wants approval 
from you, and she might do anything to win it. But don't let her use that as a 
reason to do something she'll regret later. If you truly love her, time will 
prove it and enhance the moment's sweetness."
"I guess you know that, huh?" Caramon said, looking at Goldmoon.
"Yes," she said softly her eyes going to Riverwind. "We have waited long, and 
sometimes the pain is unbearable. But the laws of my people are strict. I don't 
suppose it would matter now," she spoke in a whisper, more to herself than 
Caramon, "since we are the only two left. But, in a way, that makes it even more 
important. When our vows are spoken, we will lie together as man and wife. Not 
until then."
"I understand. Thanks for telling me about Tika," Caramon said. He patted 
Goldmoon awkwardly on the shoulder and returned to his post.
The night passed quietly, with no sign of their pursuer. When the watches 
changed, Tanis discussed Eben's story with Gilthanas and received an 
unsatisfactory answer. Yes, what the man said was true. Gilthanas had been gone 
when the draconians attacked. He had been trying to convince the druids to help. 
He'd returned when he heard the sounds of battle and that's when he'd been 
struck on the head. He told Tanis all this in a low, bitter voice.
The companions woke when morning's pale light crept through the door. After a 
quick breakfast, they gathered their things and walked down the corridor into 
the Sla-Mori.
Arriving at the crossroads, they examined both directions-left and right. 
Riverwind knelt to study the tracks, then rose, his expression puzzled.
"They are human," he said, "but they are not human. There are animal tracks as 
well-probably rats. The dwarf was right. I see no sign of draconians or goblins. 
What is odd, however, is that the animal tracks end right here where the paths 
cross. They do not go into the right-hand corridor. The other strange tracks do 
not go to the left."
"Well, which way do we go?" Tanis asked.
"I say we don't go either way!" Eben stated. "The entrance is still open. Let's 
turn back."
"Turning back is no longer an option," Tanis said coldly. "I would give you 
leave to go yourself, only-"
"Only you don't trust me," Eben finished. "I don't blame you, Tanis Half-Elven. 
All right, I said I'd help and I meant it. Which way-left or right?"
"The evil comes from the right," Raistlin whispered.
"Gilthanas?" Tanis asked. "Do you have any idea where we are?"
"No, Tanthalas," the elf answered. "Legend says that there were many entrances 
from Sla-Mori into Pax Tharkas-all secret. Only the elven priests were allowed 
down here, to honor the dead. One way is as good as another."
"Or as bad," whispered Tasslehoff to Tika. She gulped and crept over to stand 
near Caramon.
"We'll go left," Tanis said, "since Raistlin feels uneasy about the right."
Walking by the light of the mage's staff, the companions followed the dusty, 
rock-strewn tunnel for several hundred feet, then reached an ancient stone wall 
rent by a huge hole through which only darkness was visible. Raistlin's small 
light showed faintly the distant walls of a great hall.
The warriors entered first, flanking the mage who held his staff high. The 
gigantic hall must once have been splendid, but now it had fallen into such 
decay that its faded splendor seemed pathetic and horrible. Two rows of seven 
columns ran the length of the hall, though some lay shattered on the floor. Part 
of the far wall was caved in, evidence of the destructive force of the 
Cataclysm. At the very back of the room stood two double bronze doors.
As Raistlin advanced, the others spread out, swords drawn. Suddenly Caramon, in 
the front of the hall, gave a strangled cry. The mage hurried to shine his light 
where Caramon pointed with a trembling hand.
Before them was a massive throne, ornately carved of granite. Two huge marble 
statues flanked the throne, their sightless eyes staring forward into the 
darkness. The throne they guarded was not empty. Upon it sat the skeletal 
remains of what had once been a male-of what race, none could say, death being 
the great equalizer. The figure was dressed in regal robes that, even though 
faded and decayed, still gave evidence of their richness. A cloak covered the 
gaunt shoulders. A crown gleamed on the fleshless skull. The bone hands, fingers 
lying gracefully in death, rested on a sheathed sword.
Gilthanas fell to his knees. "Kith-Kanan," he said in a whisper. "We stand in 
the Hall of the Ancients, his burial tomb. None have seen this sight since the 
elven clerics vanished in the Cataclysm."
Tanis stared at the throne until, slowly, overcome by feelings he did not 
understand, the half-elf sank to his knees. "Fealan thalos, Im murquanethi. Sai 
Kith-Kananoth Mwtari Larion" he murmured in tribute to the greatest of the elven 
kings. 
"What a beautiful sword," Tasslehoff said, his shrill voice breaking the 
reverent silence. Tanis glared at him sternly. "I'm not going to take it!" the 
kender protested, looking wounded. "I just mentioned it, as an item of 
interest."
Tanis rose to his feet. "Don't touch it," he said sternly to the kender, then 
went to explore other parts of the room.
As Tas walked closer to examine the sword, Raistlin went with him. The mage 
began to murmur, "Tsaran korilath ith hakon" and moved his thin hand swiftly 
above the sword in a prescribed pattern. The sword began to give off a faint red 
glow. Raistlin smiled and said softly, "It is enchanted."
Tas gasped. "Good enchantment? Or bad?"
"I have no way of knowing" the mage whispered. "But since it has lain 
undisturbed for so long, I certainly would not venture to touch it!"
He turned away, leaving Tas to wonder if he dared disobey Tanis and risk being 
turned into something icky.
While the kender was wrestling with temptation, the others searched the walls 
for secret entrances. Flint helped by giving them learned and lengthy 
descriptions of dwarven-built hidden doorways. Gilthanas walked to the far end 
from Kith-Kanan's throne, where the two huge bronze double doors stood. One, 
bearing a relief map of Pax Tharkas, was slightly ajar. Calling for light, he 
and Raistlin studied the map.
Caramon gave the skeletal figure of the long dead king a final backward glance 
and joined Sturm and Flint in searching the walls for secret doors. Finally 
Flint called, "Tasslehoff, you worthless kender, this is your speciality. At 
least you're always bragging about how you found the door that had been lost for 
one hundred years which led to the great jewel of the something-or-other."
"It was in a place like this, too," Tas said, his interest in the sword 
forgotten. Skipping over to help, he came to a sudden stop.
"What's that?" he asked, cocking his head.
"What's what?" Flint said absently, slapping the walls.
"A scraping sound," the kender said, puzzled. "It's coming from those doors."
Tanis looked up, having learned, long ago, to respect Tasslehoff's hearing. He 
walked toward the doors where Gilthanas and Raistlin were intent upon the map. 
Suddenly Raistlin took a step backwards. Foul-smelling air wafted into the room 
through the open door. Now everyone could hear the scraping sound and a soft, 
squishing noise.
"Shut the door!" Raistlin whispered urgently.
"Caramon!" Tanis cried. "Sturm!" The two were already running for the door, 
along with Eben. All of them leaned against it, but they were flung backwards as 
the bronze doors flew open, banging against the walls with a hollow booming 
sound. A monster slithered into the hall.
"Help us, Mishakal!" Goldmoon breathed the goddess's name as she sank back 
against the wall. The thing entered the room swiftly despite its great bulk. The 
scraping sound they had heard was caused by its gigantic, bloated body sliding 
along the floor.
"A slug!" Tas said, running up to examine it with interest. "But look at the 
size of that thing! How do you suppose it got so big? I wonder what it eats-"
"Us, you ninny!" Flint shouted, grabbing the kender and flinging him to the 
ground just as the huge slug spat out a stream of saliva. Its eyes, perched atop 
slender, rotating stalks on top of its head, were not of much use, nor did it 
need them. The slug could find and devour rats in the darkness by sense of smell 
alone. Now it detected much larger prey, and it shot its paralyzing saliva in 
the general direction of the living flesh it craved.
The deadly liquid missed as the kender and the dwarf rolled out of the way. 
Sturm and Caramon charged in, slashing at the monster with their swords. 
Caramon's sword didn't even penetrate the thick, rubbery hide. Sturm's 
two-handed blade bit, causing the slug to rear back in pain. Tanis charged 
forward as the slug's head swiveled toward the knight-
"Tanthalas!"
The scream pierced Tanis's concentration and he halted, turning back to stare in 
amazement at the entrance to the hall.
"Laurana!"
At that moment, the slug, sensing the half-elf, spat the corrosive liquid at 
him. The saliva struck his sword, causing the metal to fizz and smoke, then 
dissolve in his hand. The burning liquid ran down his arm, searing his flesh. 
Tanis, screaming in agony, fell to his knees.
"Tanthalas!" Laurana cried again, running to him.
"Stop her!" Tanis gasped, doubled over in pain, clutching a hand and swordarm 
suddenly blackened and useless.
The slug, sensing success, slithered forward, dragging its pulsating gray body 
through the door. Goldmoon cast a fearful glance at the huge monster, then ran 
to Tanis. Riverwind stood over them, protectively.
"Get away!" Tanis said through clenched teeth.
Goldmoon grasped his injured hand in her own, praying to the goddess. Riverwind 
fit an arrow to his bow and shot at the slug. The arrow struck the creature in 
the neck, doing little damage, but distracting its attention from Tanis.
The half-elf saw Goldmoon's hand touch his, but he could feel nothing but pain. 
Then the pain eased and feeling returned to his hand. Smiling at Goldmoon, he 
marveled at her healing powers, even as he lifted his head to see what was 
happening.
The others were attacking the creature with renewed fury, attempting to distract 
it from Tanis, but they might as well have been plunging their weapons into a 
thick, rubbery wall.
Tanis rose to his feet shakily. His hand was healed, but his sword lay on the 
ground, a molten lump of metal. Weaponless except for his longbow, he fell back, 
pulling Goldmoon with him as the slug slid into the room.
Raistlin ran to Fizban's side. "Now is the time for the casting of the fireball. 
Old One," he panted.
"It is?" Fizban's face filled with delight. "Wonderful! How does it go?"
"Don't you remember!" Raistlin practically shrieked, dragging the mage behind a 
pillar as the slug spat another glob of burning saliva onto the floor.
"I used to ... let me see." Fizban's brow furrowed in concentration. "Can't you 
do it?"
"I have not gained the power yet. Old One! That spell is still beyond my 
strength!" Raistlin closed his eyes and began to concentrate on those spells he 
did know.
"Fall back! Get out of here!" Tanis shouted, shielding Laurana and Goldmoon as 
best he could while he fumbled for his longbow and his arrows.
"It'll just come after us!" Sturm yelled, thrusting his blade home once again. 
But all he and Caramon accomplished was to enrage the monster further.
Suddenly Raistlin held up his hands. "Kalith karan, tobaniskarf he cried, and 
flaming darts sprang from his fingers, striking the creature in the head. The 
slug reared in silent agony and shook its head, but returned to the hunt. 
Suddenly it lunged straight forward, sensing victims at the end of the room 
where Tanis sought to protect Goldmoon and Laurana. Maddened by pain, driven 
wild by the smell of blood, the slug attacked with unbelievable speed. Tanis's 
arrow bounced off the leathery hide and the monster dove for him, its mouth 
gaping open. The half-elf dropped the useless bow and staggered backwards, 
nearly stumbling over the steps leading to the throne of Kith-Kanan.
"Behind the throne!" he yelled, preparing to hold the monster's attention while 
Goldmoon and Laurana ran for cover. His hand reached out, grabbing for a huge 
rock-anything to hurl at the creature!-when his fingers closed over the metal 
hilt of a sword.
Tanis nearly dropped the weapon in amazement. The metal was so cold it burned 
his hand. The blade gleamed brightly in the wavering light of the mage's staff. 
There wasn't time to question, however. Tanis drove the point into the slug's 
gaping maw just as the creature swooped in for the kill.
"Run!" Tanis yelled. Grasping Laurana's hand, he dragged her toward the hole. 
Pushing her through, he turned around, preparing to help keep the slug at bay 
while the others escaped. But the slug's appetite had died. Writhing in misery, 
it slowly turned and slithered back toward its lair. Clear, sticky liquid 
dribbled from its wounds.
The companions crowded into the tunnel, stopping for a moment to calm their 
hearts and breathe deeply. Raistlin, wheezing, leaned on his brother. Tanis 
glanced around. "Where's Tasslehoff?" he asked in frustration. Whirling around 
to go back into the hall, he nearly fell over the kender.
"I brought you the scabbard" Tas said, holding it up. "For the sword."
"Back down the tunnel," Tanis said firmly, stopping everyone's questions.
Reaching the crossroads and sinking down on the dusty floor to rest, Tanis 
turned to the elf maid. "What in the name of the Abyss are you doing here, 
Laurana? Has something happened in Qualinost?"
"Nothing happened," Laurana said, shaking from the encounter with the slug. "I 
... I ... just came."
"Then you're going right back!" Gilthanas yelled angrily, grabbing Laurana. She 
broke away from his grasp.
"I'm not either going back," she said petulantly. "I'm coming with you and Tanis 
and ... the rest."
"Laurana, this is madness," Tanis snapped. "We're not going on an outing. This 
isn't a game. You saw what happened in there-we were nearly killed!"
"I know, Tanthalas," Laurana said pleadingly. Her voice quivered and broke. "You 
told me that there comes a time when you've got to risk your life for something 
you believe in. I'm the one who followed you."
"You could have been killed-" Gilthanas began.
"But I wasn't!" Laurana cried defiantly. "I have been trained as a warrior-all 
elven women are, in memory of the time when we fought beside our men to save our 
homeland."
"It's not serious training-" Tanis began angrily.
"I followed you, didn't I?" Laurana demanded, casting a glance at Sturm. 
"Skillfully?" she asked the knight.
"Yes," he admitted.
"Still, that doesn't mean-"
Raistlin interrupted him. "We are losing time," the mage whispered. "And I for 
one do not want to spend any longer than I must in this dank and musty tunnel." 
He was wheezing, barely able to breathe. "The girl has made her decision. We can 
spare no one to return with her, nor do we dare trust her to leave on her own. 
She might be captured and reveal our plans. We must take her."
Tanis glared at the mage, hating him for his cold, unfeeling logic, and for 
being right. The half-elf stood up, yanking Laurana to her feet. He came very 
close to hating her, too, without quite understanding why, knowing simply that 
she was making a difficult task much harder.
"You are on your own," he told her quietly, as the rest stood up and gathered 
their things. "I can't hang around, protecting you. Neither can Gilthanas. You 
have behaved like a spoiled brat. I told you once before-you better grow up. 
Now, if you don't, you're going to die and probably get all the rest of us 
killed right along with you!"
"I'm sorry, Tanthalas," Laurana said, avoiding his angry gaze. "But I couldn't 
lose you, not again. I love you." Her lips tightened and she said softly, "I'll 
make you proud of me."
Tanis turned and walked away. Catching sight of Caramon's grinning face and 
hearing Tika giggle, he flushed. Ignoring them, he approached Sturm and 
Gilthanas. "It seems we must take the right-hand corridor after all, whether or 
not Raistlin's feelings about evil are correct." He buckled on his new sword 
belt and scabbard, noticing, as he did so, Raistlin's eyes lingering on the 
weapon.
"What is it now?" he asked irritably.
"The sword is enchanted," Raistlin said softly, coughing. "How did you get it?"
Tanis started. He stared at the blade, moving his hand as though it might turn 
into a snake. He frowned, trying to remember. "I was near the body of the elven 
king, searching for something to throw at the slug, when, suddenly, the sword 
was in my hand. It had been taken out of the sheath and-" Tanis paused, 
swallowing,
"Yes?" Raistlin pursued, his eyes glittering eagerly.
"He gave it to me," Tanis said softly. "I remember, his hand touched mine. He 
pulled it from its sheath."
"Who?" asked Gilthanas. "None of us were near there."
"Kith-Kanan. . . ."
 
 
10
The Royal Guard.
The Chain Room.
 
Perhaps it was just imagination, but the darkness seemed thicker as they walked 
down the other tunnel and the air grew colder. No one needed the dwarf to tell 
them that this was not normal in a cave, where the temperature supposedly stayed 
constant. They reached a branch in the tunnel, but no one felt inclined to go 
left, which might lead them back to the Hall of the Ancients-and the wounded 
slug.
"The elf almost got us killed by the slug," Eben said accusingly. "I wonder 
what's in store for us down here?"
No one answered. By now, everyone was experiencing the sense of growing evil 
Raistlin had warned of. Their footsteps slowed, and it was only through force of 
group will that they continued on. Laurana felt fear convulse her limbs and she 
clung to the wall for support. She longed for Tanis to comfort her and protect 
her, as he had done when they were younger and facing imaginary foes, but he 
walked at the head of the line with her brother. Each had his own fear to 
contend with. At that moment, Laurana decided that she would die before she 
asked for their help. It occurred to her, then, that she was really serious when 
she said she wanted to make Tanis proud of her. Shoving herself away from the 
side of the crumbling tunnel, she gritted her teeth and moved forward.
The tunnel came to an abrupt end. Crumbled stone and rubble lay beneath a hole 
in the rock wall. The sense of malevolent evil flowing from the darkness beyond 
the hole could almost be felt, wafting across the flesh like the touch of unseen 
fingers. The companions stopped, none of them-not even the nerveless 
kender-daring to enter.
"It's not that I'm afraid," Tas confided in a whisper to Flint. "It's just that 
I'd rather be somewhere else."
The silence became oppressive. Each could hear his own heart beat and the 
breathing of the others. The light jittered and wavered in the mage's shaking 
hand.
"Well, we can't stay here forever," Eben said hoarsely. "Let the elf go in. He's 
the one who brought us here!"
"I'll go," Gilthanas answered. "But I'll need light."
"None may touch the staff but I," Raistlin hissed. He paused, then added 
reluctantly, "I'll go with you."
"Raist-" Caramon began, but his brother stared at him coldly. "I'll go, too," 
the big man muttered.
"No," Tanis said. "You stay here and guard the others. Gilthanas, Raistlin, and 
I will go."
Gilthanas entered the hole in the wall, followed by the mage and Tanis, the 
half-elf assisting Raistlin. The light revealed a narrow chamber, vanishing into 
darkness beyond the staff's reach. On either side were rows of large stone 
doors, each held in place by huge iron hinges, spiked directly into the rock 
wall. Raistlin held the staff high, shining it down the shadowy chamber. Each 
knew that the evil was centered here.
"There's carving on the doors," Tanis murmured. The staff's light threw the 
stone figures into high relief.
Gilthanas stared at it. "The Royal Crest!" he said in a strangled voice.
"What does that mean?" Tanis asked, feeling the elf's fear infect him like a 
plague.
"These are the crypts of the Royal Guard," Gilthanas whispered. "They are 
pledged to continue their duties, even in death, and guard the king-so the 
legends speak."
"And so the legends come to life!" Raistlin breathed, gripping Tanis's arm. 
Tanis heard the sound of huge stone blocks shifting, of rusting iron hinges 
creaking. Turning his head, he saw each of the stone doors begin to swing wide! 
The hallway filled with a cold so severe that Tanis felt his fingers go numb. 
Things moved behind the stone doors.
"The Royal Guard! They made the tracks!" Raistlin whispered frantically. "Human 
and not human. There is no escape!" he said, grasping Tanis tighter. "Unlike the 
spectres of Darken Wood, these have but one thought-to destroy all who commit 
the sacrilege of disturbing the king's rest!"
"We've got to try!" Tanis said, unclenching the mage's biting fingers from his 
arm. He stumbled backwards and reached the entryway, only to find it blocked by 
two figures.
"Get back!" Tanis gasped. "Run! Who- Fizban? No, you crazy old man! We've got to 
run! The dead guards-"
"Oh, calm down," the old man muttered. "Young people. Alarmists." He turned 
around and helped someone else enter. It was Goldmoon, her hair gleaming in the 
light.
"It's all right, Tanis," she called softly. "Look!" She drew aside her cape: the 
medallion she wore glowed blue. "Fizban said they would let us pass, Tanis, if 
they saw the medallion. And when he said that-it began to glow!"
"No!" Tanis started to order her back, but Fizban tapped him on the chest with a 
long, bony finger.
"You're a good man, Tanis Half-Elven," the old mage said softly, "but you worry 
too much. Now just relax and let us send these poor souls back to their sleep. 
Bring the others along, will you?"
Tanis, too startled for words, fell back as Goldmoon and Fizban walked past, 
Riverwind following. As Tanis watched, they walked slowly between the rows of 
gaping stone doors. Behind each stone door, movement ceased as she passed. Even 
at that distance, he could feel the sense of malevolent evil slip away.
As the others came to the crumbling entryway and he helped them through, he 
answered their whispered questions with a shrug. Laurana didn't say a word to 
him as she entered; her hand was cold to the touch and he could see, to his 
astonishment, blood on her lip. Knowing she must have bitten it to keep from 
screaming, Tanis, remorseful, started to say something to her. But the elfmaid 
held her head high and refused to look at him.
The others ran after Goldmoon hurriedly, but Tasslehoff, pausing to peek into 
one of the crypts, saw a tall figure dressed in resplendent armor lying on a 
stone bier. Skeletal hands grasped the hilt of a longsword lying across the 
body. Tas looked up at the Royal Crest curiously, sounding out the words.
"Sothi Nuinqua Tsalarioth" said Tanis, coming up behind the kender.
"What does it mean?" Tas asked.
"Faithful beyond Death," Tanis said softly.
At the west end of the crypts, they found a set of bronze double doors. Goldmoon 
pushed it open easily and led them into a triangular passage that opened into a 
large hall. Inside this room, the only difficulty they faced was in trying to 
get the dwarf out of it. The hall was perfectly intact-the only room in the 
Sla-Mori they had encountered so far that had survived the Cataclysm without 
damage. And the reason for that, Flint explained to anyone who would listen, was 
the wonderful dwarven construction-particularly the twenty-three columns 
supporting the ceiling.
The only way out was two identical bronze doors at the far end of the chamber, 
leading west. Flint, tearing himself away from the columns, examined each and 
grumbled that he hadn't any idea what was behind them or where they led. After a 
brief discussion, Tanis decided to take the door to his right. The door opened 
onto a clean, narrow passageway that led them, after about thirty feet, to 
another single bronze door. This door, however, was locked. Caramon pushed, 
tugged, pried-all to no avail.
"It's no use," the big man grunted. "It won't budge."
Flint watched Caramon for several minutes, then finally stumped forward. 
Examining the door, he snorted and shook his head. "Jt's a false door!"
"Looks real to me!" Caramon said, staring at the door suspiciously. "It's even 
got hinges!"
"Of course, it does," Flint snorted. "We don't build false doors to look 
false-even a gully dwarf knows that."
"So we're at a dead end!" Eben said grimly.
"Stand back," Raistlin whispered, carefully leaning his staff against a wall. He 
placed both hands on the door, touching it only with the tips of his fingers, 
then said, "Khetsaram pak7io//" There was a flare of orange light, but not from 
the door-it came from the wall!
"Move!" Raistlin grabbed his brother and jerked him back, just as the entire 
wall, bronze door and all, began to pivot.
"Quickly, before it shuts," Tanis said, and everyone hurried through the door, 
Caramon catching his brother as Raistlin staggered.
"Are you all right?" Caramon asked, as the wall slammed shut behind them.
"Yes, the weakness will pass," Raistlin whispered. "That is the first spell I 
have cast from the spellbook of Fistandantilus. The spell of opening worked, but 
I did not believe it would drain me like this."
The door led them into another passageway that ran straight west for about forty 
feet, took a sharp turn to the south, then east, then continued south again. 
Here the way was blocked by another single bronze door.
Raistlin shook his head. "I can only use the spell once. It is gone from my 
memory."
"A fireball would open the door," said Fizban. "I think I remember that spell 
now-"
"No, Old One," Tanis said hastily. "It would fry all of us in this narrow 
passage. Tas-"
Reaching the door, the kender pushed on it. "Drat, it's open," he said, 
disappointed not to have to pick a lock. He peered inside. "Just another room."
They entered cautiously, Raistlin illuminating the chamber with the staff's 
light. The room was perfectly round, about one hundred feet in diameter. 
Directly across from them, to the south, stood a bronze door and in the center 
of the room-
"A crooked column," Tas said, giggling. "Look, Flint. The dwarves built a 
crooked column!"
"If they did, they had a good reason," the dwarf snapped, shoving the kender 
aside to examine the tall, thin column. It definitely slanted.
"Hmmmm," said Flint, puzzled. Then- "It isn't a column at all, you doorknob!" 
Flint exploded. "It's a great, huge chain! Look, you can see here it's hooked to 
an iron bracket on the floor."
"Then we are in the Chain Room!" Gilthanas said in excitement. "This is the 
famed defense mechanism of Pax Tharkas. We must be almost in the fortress."
The companions gathered around, staring at the monstrous chain in wonder. Each 
link was as long as Caramon was tall and as thick around as the trunk of an oak.
"What does the mechanism do?" asked Tasslehoff, longing to climb up the great 
chain. "Where does this lead?"
"The chain leads to the mechanism itself," Gilthanas answered. "As to how it 
works, you must ask the dwarf for I am unfamiliar with engineering. But if this 
chain is released from its moorings"-he pointed to the iron bracket in the 
floor-"massive blocks of granite drop down behind the gates of the fortress. 
Then no force on Krynn can open them."
Leaving the kender to peer up into the shadowy darkness, trying in vain to get a 
glimpse of the wondrous mechanism, Gilthanas joined the others in searching the 
room.
"Look at this!" he finally cried, pointing to a faint door-shaped line in the 
stones on the north wall. "A secret door! This must be the entrance!"
"There's the catch." Tasslehoff, turning from the chain, pointed to a chipped 
piece of stone at the bottom. "The dwarves slipped up," he said, grinning at 
Flint. "This is a false door that looks false."
"And therefore not to be trusted," Flint said flatly.
"Bah, dwarves have bad days like everyone else," Eben said, bending down to try 
the catch.
"Don't open it!" Raistlin said suddenly.
"Why not?" asked Sturm. "Because you want to alert someone before we find the 
way into Pax Tharkas?"
"If I had wanted to betray you, knight, I could have done so a thousand times 
before this!" Raistlin hissed, staring at the secret door. "I sense a power 
behind that door greater than any I have felt since-" He stopped, shuddering.
"Since when?" his brother prompted gently.
"The Towers of High Sorcery!" Raistlin whispered. "I warn you, do not open that 
door!"
"See where the south door leads," Tanis told the dwarf.
Flint stumped over to the bronze door on the south wall and shoved it open. 
"Near as I can tell, it leads down another passage exactly like all the others," 
he reported glumly
"The way to Pax Tharkas is through a secret door," Gilthanas repeated. Before 
anyone could stop him, he reached down and pulled out the chipped stone. The 
door shivered and began to swing silently inward.
"You will regret this!" Raistlin choked.
The door slid aside to reveal a large room, nearly filled with yellow, 
brick-like objects. Through a thick layer of dust, a faint yellowish color was 
visible.
"A treasure room!" Eben cried. "We've found the treasure of Kith-Kanan!"
"All in gold," Strum said coldly. "Worthless, these days, since steel's the only 
thing of any value. . . ." His voice trailed off, his eyes widened in horror.
"What is it?" shouted Caramon, drawing his sword.
"I don't know!" Sturm said, more as a gasp than words.
"I do!" Raistlin breathed as the thing took shape before his eyes. "It is the 
spirit of a dark elf! I warned you not to open that door."
"Do something!" Eben said, stumbling backwards.
"Put up your weapons, fools!" Raistlin said in a piercing whisper. "You cannot 
fight her! Her touch is death, and if she wails while we are within these walls, 
we are doomed. Her keening voice alone kills. Run, run all of you! Quickly! 
Through the south door!"
Even as they fell back, the darkness in the treasure room took shape, coalescing 
into the coldly beautiful, distorted features of a female drow-an evil elf of 
ages past, whose punishment for crimes unspeakable had been execution. Then the 
powerful elven magic-users chained her spirit, forcing her to guard forever the 
king's treasure. At the sight of these living beings, she streched out her 
hands, craving the warmth of flesh, and opened her mouth to scream out her grief 
and her hatred of all living things.
The companions turned and fled, stumbling over each other in their haste to 
escape through the bronze door. Caramon fell over his brother, knocking the 
staff from Raistlin's hand. The staff clattered on the floor, its light still 
glowing, for only dragonfire can destroy the magic crystal. But now its light 
flared out over the floor, plunging the rest of the room into darkness.
Seeing her prey escaping, the spirit flitted into the Chain Room, her grasping 
hand brushing Eben's cheek. He screamed at the chilling, burning touch and 
collapsed. Sturm caught him and dragged him through the door just as Raistlin 
grabbed his staff and he and Caramon lunged through.
"Is that everyone?" Tanis asked, reluctant to close the door. Then he heard a 
low, moaning sound, so frightful that he felt his heart stop beating for a 
moment. Fear seized him. He couldn't breathe. The cry ceased, and his heart gave 
a great, painful leap. The spirit sucked in its breath to scream again.
"No time to look!" Raistlin gasped. "Shut the door, brother!"
Caramon threw all his weight on the bronze door. It slammed shut with a boom 
that echoed through the hall.
"That won't stop her!" Eben cried, panic-stricken.
"No," said Raistlin softly. "Her magic is powerful, more powerful than mine. I 
can cast a spell on the door, but it will weaken me greatly. I suggest you run 
while you can. If it fails, perhaps I can stall her."
"Riverwind, take the others on ahead," Tanis orderd. "Sturm and I'll stay with 
Raistlin and Caramon."
The others crept down the dark corridor, looking back to watch in horrible 
fascination. Raistlin ignored them and handed the staff to his brother. The 
light from the glowing crystal flashed out at the unfamiliar touch.
The mage put his hands on the door, pressing both palms flat against it. Closing 
his eyes, he forced himself to forget everything except the magic. "Kalis-an 
budrunin-" His concentration broke as he felt a terrible chill.
The dark elf! She had recognized his spell and was trying to break him! Images 
of his battle with another dark elf in the Towers of High Sorcery came back to 
his mind. He struggled to blot out the evil memory of the battle that wrecked 
his body and came close to destroying his mind, but he felt himself losing 
control. He had forgotten the words! The door trembled. The elf was coming 
through!
Then from somewhere inside the mage came a strength he had discovered within 
himself only twice before-in the Tower and on the altar of the black dragon in 
Xak Tsaroth. The familiar voice that he could hear clearly in his mind yet never 
identify, spoke to him, repeating the words of the spell. Raistlin shouted them 
aloud in a strong, clear voice that was not his own. "Kalis-an budrunin 
kara-emarath!"
From the other side of the door came a wail of disappointment, failure. The door 
held. The mage collapsed.
Caramon handed the staff to Eben as he picked up his brother in his arms and 
followed the others as they groped their way along the dark passage. Another 
secret door opened easily to Flint's hand, leading to a series of short, 
debris-filled tunnels. Trembling with fear, the companions wearily made their 
way past these obstacles. Finally they emerged into a large, open room filled 
from ceiling to floor with stacks of wooden crates. Riverwind lit a torch on the 
wall. The crates were nailed shut. Some bore the label SOLACE, some GATEWAY.
"This is it. We're inside the fortress." Gilthanas said, grimly victorious. "We 
stand in the cellar of Pax Tharkas."
"Thank the true gods!" Tanis sighed and sank onto the floor, the others slumping 
down beside him. It was then they noticed that Fizban and Tasslehoff were 
missing.
 
 
11
Lost.
The plan. Betrayed!
 
Tasslehoff could never afterwards clearly recall those last, few, panicked 
moments in the Chain Room. He remembered saying, "A dark elf? Where?" and 
standing on his tiptoes, trying desperately to see, when suddenly the glowing 
staff fell on the floor. He heard Tanis shouting, and-above that-a kind of a 
moaning sound that made the kender lose all sense of where he was or what he was 
doing. Then strong hands grabbed him around the waist, lifting him up into the 
air.
"Climb!" shouted a voice beneath him.
Tasslehoff stretched out his hands, felt the cool metal of the chain, and began 
to climb. He heard a door boom, far below, and the chilling wail of the dark elf 
again. It didn't sound deadly this time, more like a cry of rage and anger. Tas 
hoped this meant his friends had escaped.
"I wonder how I'll find them again," he asked himself softly, feeling 
discouraged for a moment. Then he heard Fizban muttering to himself and cheered 
up. He wasn't alone.
Thick, heavy darkness wrapped around the kender. Climbing by feel alone, he was 
growing extremely tired when he felt cool air brush his right cheek. He sensed, 
rather than saw, that he must be coming to the place where the chain and the 
mechanism linked up (Tas was rather proud of that pun). If only he could see! 
Then he remembered. He was, after all, with a magician.
"We could use a light," Tas called out.
"A fight? Where?" Fizban nearly lost his grip on the chain.
"Not fight! Light!" Tas said patiently, clinging to a link. "I think we're near 
the top of this thing and we really ought to have a look around."
"Oh, certainly. Let's see, light . . ." Tas heard the magician fumbling in his 
pouches. Apparently he found what he was searching for, because he soon gave a 
little crow of triumph, spoke a few words, and a small puffball of bluish-yellow 
flame appeared, hovering near the magician's hat.
The glowing puffball whizzed up, danced around Tasslehoff as if to inspect the 
kender, then returned to the proud magician. Tas was enchanted. He had all sorts 
of questions regarding the wonderful flaming puffball, but his arms were getting 
shaky and the old magician was nearly done in. He knew they better find some way 
to get off this chain.
Looking up, he saw that they were, as he had guessed, at the top part of the 
fortress. The chain ran up over a huge wooden cogwheel mounted on an iron axle 
anchored in solid stone. The links of the chain fit over teeth big as tree 
trunks, then the chain stretched out across the wide shaft, disappearing into a 
tunnel to the kender's right.
"We can climb onto that gear and crawl along the chain into the tunnel," the 
kender said, pointing. "Can you send the light up here?"
"Light-to the wheel," Fizban instructed.
The light wavered in the air for a moment, then danced back and forth in a 
decidedly nay-saying manner.
Fizban frowned. "Light-to the wheel!" he repeated firmly.
The puffball flame darted around to hide behind the magician's hat. Fizban, 
making a wild grab for it, nearly fell, and flung both arms around the chain. 
The puffball light danced in the air behind him as if enjoying the game.
"Uh, I guess we've got enough light, after all" Tas said.
"No discipline in the younger generation," Fizban grumbled. "His father-now 
there was a puffball . . ." The old magician's voice died away as he began to 
climb again, the puffball flame hovering near the tip of his battered hat.
Tas soon reached the first tooth on the wheel. Discovering the teeth were rough 
hewn and easy to climb, Tas crawled from one to another until he reached the 
top. Fizban, his robes hiked up around his thighs, followed with amazing 
agility.
"Could you ask the light to shine in the tunnel?" Tas asked.
"Light-to the tunnel," Fizban ordered, his bony legs wrapped around a link in 
the chain.
The puffball appeared to consider the command. Slowly it skittered to the edge 
of the tunnel, and then stopped.
"Inside the tunnel!" the magician commanded.
The puffball flame refused.
"I think it's afraid of the dark," Fizban said apologetically.
"My goodness, how remarkable!" the kender said in astonishment. "Well," he 
thought for a moment, "if it will stay where it is, I think I can see enough to 
make my way across the chain. It looks like it's only about fifteen feet or so 
to the tunnel." With nothing below but several hundred feet of darkness and air, 
never mind the stone floor at the bottom, Tas thought.
"Someone should come up here and grease this thing," Fizban said, examining the 
axle critically. "That's all you get today, shoddy workmanship."
"I'm really rather glad they didn't," Tas said mildly, crawling forward onto the 
chain. About halfway across the gap, the kender considered what it would be like 
to fall from this height, tumbling down and down and down, then hitting the 
stone floor at the bottom. He wondered what it would feel-like to splatter all 
over the floor. . . .
"Get a move on!" Fizban shouted, crawling out onto the chain after the kender.
Tas crawled forward quickly to the tunnel entrance where the puffball flame 
waited, then jumped off the chain onto the stone floor about five feet below 
him. The puffball flame darted in after him, and finally Fizban reached the 
tunnel entrance, too. At the last moment, he fell, but Tas caught hold of his 
robes and dragged the old man to safety.
They were sitting on the floor resting when suddenly the old man's head snapped 
up.
"My staff," he said.
"What about it?" Tas yawned, wondering what time it was.
The old man struggled to his feet. "Left it down below," he mumbled, heading for 
the chain.
"Wait! You can't go back!" Tasslehoff jumped up in alarm.
"Who says?" asked the old man petulantly, his beard bristling.
"I m-mean . . ." Tas stuttered, "it would be too dangerous. But I know you how 
feel-my hoopak's down there."
"Hmmmm," Fizban said, sitting back down disconsolately.
"Was it magic?" Tas asked after a moment.
"I was never quite certain," Fizban said wistfully.
"Well," said Tas practically, "maybe after we've finished the adventure we can 
go back and get it. Now let's try to find someplace to rest."
He glanced around the tunnel. It was about seven feet from floor to ceiling. The 
huge chain ran along the top with numerous smaller chains attached, stretching 
across the tunnel floor into a vast dark pit beyond. Tas, staring down into it, 
could vaguely make out the shape of gigantic boulders.
"What time do you suppose it is?" Tas asked.
"Lunchtime," said the old man. "And we might as well rest right here. It's as 
safe a place as any." He plopped back down. Pulling out a handful of quith-pa, 
he began to chew on it noisily. The puffball flame wandered over and settled on 
the brim of the magician's hat.
Tas sat down next to the mage and began to nibble on his own bit of dried fruit. 
Then he sniffed. There was suddenly a very peculiar smell, like someone burning 
old socks. Looking up, he sighed and tugged on the magician's robe. "Uh, 
Fizban," he said. "Your hat's on fire."
 
"Flint," Tanis said sternly, "for the last time-I feel as badly as you do about 
losing Tas, but we cannot go back! He's with Fizban and-knowing those 
two-they'll both manage to get out of whatever predicament they're in."
"If they don't bring the whole fortress down around our ears," Sturm muttered.
The dwarf wiped his hand across his eyes, glared at Tanis, then whirled on his 
heel and stumped back to a corner where he hurled himself onto the floor, 
sulking.
Tanis sat back down. He knew how Flint felt. It seemed odd-there'd been so many 
times he could happily have strangled the kender, but now that he was gone, 
Tanis missed him-and for exactly the same reasons. There was an innate, 
unfailing cheerfulness about Tasslehoff that made him an invaluable companion. 
No danger ever frightened a kender and, therefore, Tas never gave up. He was 
never at a loss for something to do in an emergency. It might not always be the 
right thing, but at least he was ready to act. Tanis smiled sadly. I only hope 
this emergency doesn't prove to be his last, he thought.
The companions rested for an hour, eating quith-pa and drinking fresh water from 
a deep well they discovered. Raistlin regained consciousness but could eat 
nothing. He sipped water, then lay limply back. Caramon broke the news to him 
about Fizban hesitantly, fearing his brother might take the old mage's 
disappearance badly. But Raistlin simply shrugged, closed his eyes, and sank 
into a deep sleep.
After Tanis felt his strength return, he rose and walked toward Gilthanas, 
noting that the elf was intently studying a map. Passing Laurana, who sat alone, 
he smiled at her. She refused to acknowledge it. Tanis sighed. Already he 
regretted speaking harshly to her back in the Sla-Mori. He had to admit that she 
had handled herself remarkably well under terrifying circumstances. She had done 
what she was told to quickly and without question. Tanis supposed he would have 
to apologize, but first he needed to talk to Gilthanas.
"What's the plan?" he asked, sitting down on a crate.
"Yes, where are we?" Sturm asked. Soon almost everyone was crowded around the 
map except Raistlin who appeared to sleep, though Tanis thought he saw a slit of 
gold shining through the mage's supposedly closed eyelids.
Gilthanas spread his map flat.
"Here is the fortress of Pax Tharkas and the surrounding mine area," he said, 
then he pointed. "We are in the cellars here on the lowest level. Down this 
hallway, about fifty feet from here, are the rooms where the women are 
imprisoned. This is a guard room, across from the women, and this"-he tapped the 
map gently-"is the lair of one of the red dragons, the one Lord Verminaard 
called Ember. The dragon is so big, of course, that the lair extends up above 
ground level, communicating with Lord Verminaard's chambers on the first floor, 
up through the gallery on the second floor, and out into the open sky.
Gilthanas smiled bitterly. "On the first floor, behind Verminaard's chambers, is 
the prison where the children are kept. The Dragon Highlord is wise. He keeps 
the hostages separated, knowing that the women would never consider leaving 
without their children, and the men would not leave without their families. The 
children are guarded by a second red dragon in this room. The men-about three 
hundred of them-work in mines out in the mountain caves. There are several 
hundred gully dwarves working the mines as well."
"You seem to know a lot about Pax Tharkas," Eben said.
Gilthanas glanced up quickly. "What do you insinuate?"
"I'm not insinuating anything," Eben answered. "It's just that you know a lot 
about this place for never having been here! And wasn't it interesting that we 
kept running into creatures who damn near killed us back in the Sla-Mori."
"Eben," Tanis spoke very quietly, "we've had enough of your suspicions. I don't 
believe any of us is a traitor. As Raistlin said, the traitor could have 
betrayed any of us long before this. What's the point of coming this far?"
"To bring me and the Disks to Lord Verminaard," Goldmoon said softly. "He knows 
I am here, Tanis. He and I are linked by our faith."
"That's ridiculous!" Sturm snorted.
"No, it isn't," Goldmoon said. "Remember, there are two constellations missing. 
One was the Queen of Darkness. From what little I have been able to understand 
in the Disks of Mishakal, the Queen was also one of the ancient gods. The gods 
of good are matched by the gods of evil, with the gods of neutrality striving to 
keep the balance. Verminaard worships the Queen of Darkness as I worship 
Mishakal: that is what Mishakal meant when she said we were to restore the 
balance. The promise of good that I bring is the one thing he fears and he is 
exerting all his will to find me. The longer I stay here . . ." Her voice died.
"All the more reason to quit bickering," Tanis stated, switching his gaze to 
Eben.
The fighter shrugged. "Enough said. I'm with you."
"What is your plan, Gilthanas?" Tanis asked, noticing with irritation that Sturm 
and Caramon and Eben exchanged quick glances-three humans sticking togehter 
against the elves, he caught himself thinking. But perhaps I'm just as bad, 
believing in Gilthanas because he's an elf.
Gilthanas saw the exchange of glances, too. For a moment he stared at them with 
an intense, unblinking gaze, then began to speak in a measured tone, considering 
his words, as if reluctant to reveal any more than was absolutely necessary.
"Every evening, ten to twelve women are allowed to leave their cells and take 
food to the men in the mines. Thus the Highlord lets the men see that he is 
keeping his side of the bagain. The women are allowed to visit the children once 
a day for the same reason. My warriors and I planned to disguise ourselves as 
women, go out to the men in the mines, tell them of the plan to free the 
hostages, and alert them to be ready to strike. Beyond that we had not thought, 
particularly in regard to freeing the children. Our spies indicated something 
strange about the dragon guarding the children, but we could not determine 
what."
"What sp-?" Caramon started to ask, caught Tanis's eye, and thought better of 
his question. Instead he asked, "When will we strike? And what about the dragon. 
Ember?"
"We strike tomorrow morning. Lord Verminaard and Ember will most certainly join 
the army tomorrow as it reaches the outskirts of Qualinesti. He has been 
preparing for this invasion a long time. I do not believe he will miss it."
The group discussed the plan for several minutes, adding to it, refining it, 
generally agreeing that it appeared viable. They gathered their things as 
Caramon woke his brother. Sturm and Eben pushed open the door leading to the 
hallway. It appeared empty, although they could hear faint sounds of harsh, 
drunken laughter from a room directly across from them. Draconians. Silently, 
the companions slipped into the dark and dingy corridor.
Tasselhoff stood in the middle of what he had named the Mechanism Room, staring 
around the tunnel lighted dimly by the puffball. The kender was beginning to 
feel discouraged. It was a feeling he didn't get often and likened to the time 
he'd eaten an entire green tomato pie acquired from a neighbor. To this day, 
discouragement and green tomato pie both made him want to throw up.
"There's got to be some way out of here," said the kender.
"Surely they inspect the mechanism occasionally, or come up to admire it, or 
give tours, or something!"
He and Fizban had spent an hour walking up and down the tunnel, crawling in and 
out among the myriad chains. They found nothing. It was cold and barren and 
covered with dust.
"Speaking of light," said the old magician suddenly, though they hadn't been. 
"Look there."
Tasselhoff looked. A thin sliver of light was visible through a crack in the 
bottom of the wall, near the entrance to the narrow tunnel. They could hear 
voices, and the light grew brighter as if torches were being lit in a room below 
them.
"Maybe that's a way out," the old man said.
Running lightly down the tunnel, Tas knelt down and peered through the crack. 
"Come here!"
The two looked down into a large room, furnished with every possible luxury. All 
that was beautiful, graceful, delicate, or valuable in the lands under 
Verminaards control had been brought to decorate the private chambers of the 
Dragon Highlord. An ornate throne stood at one end of the room. Rare and 
priceless silver mirrors hung on the walls, arranged so cunningly that no matter 
where a trembling captive turned, the only image he saw was the grotesque, 
horned helm of the Dragon Highlord glowering at him.
"That must be him!" Tas whispered to Fizban. "That must be Lord Verminaard!" The 
kender sucked in his breath in awe. "That must be his dragon-Ember. The one 
Gilthanas told us about, that killed all the elves in Solace."
Ember, or Pyros (his true name being a secret known only to draconians, or to 
other dragons-never to common mortals) was an ancient and enormous red dragon. 
Pyros had been given to Lord Verminaard ostensibly as a reward from the Queen of 
Darkness to her cleric. In reality, Pyros was sent to keep a watchful eye on 
Verminaard, who had developed a strange, paranoidal fear regarding discovery of 
the true gods. All the Dragon Highlords on Krynn possessed dragons, 
however-though perhaps not as strong and intelligent. For Pyros had another, 
more important mission that was secret even to the Dragon Highlord himself-a 
mission assigned to him by the Queen of Darkness and known only to her and her 
evil dragons.
Pyros's mission was to search this part of Ansalon for one man, a man of many 
names. The Queen of Darkness called him Everman. The dragons called him Green 
Gemstone Man. His human name was Berem. And it was because of this unceasing 
search for the human, Berem, that Pyros was present in Verminaard's chamber this 
afternoon when he would have much preferred to be napping in his lair.
Pyros had received word that Fewmaster Toede was bringing in two prisoners for 
interrogation. There was always the possibility this Berem might be one of them. 
Therefore, the dragon was always present during interrogations, though he often 
appeared vastly bored. The only time interrogations became interesting-as far as 
Pyros was concerned-was when Verminaard ordered a prisoner to "feed the dragon."
Pyros was stretched out along one side of the enormous throne room, completely 
filling it. His huge wings were folded at his sides, his flanks heaved with 
every breath he took like some great gnomish engine. Dozing, he snorted and 
shifted slightly. A rare vase toppled to the floor with a crash. Verminaard 
looked up from his desk where he was studying a map of Qualinesti.
"Transform yourself before you wreck the place," he snarled.
Pyros opened one eye, regarded Verminaard coldly for a moment, then grudgingly 
rumbled a brief word of magic.
The gigantic red dragon began to shimmer like a mirage, the monstrous dragon 
shape condensing into the shape of a human male, slight of build with dark black 
hair, a thin face, and slanting red eyes. Dressed in crimson robes, Pyros the 
man walked to a desk near Verminaard's throne. Sitting down, he folded his
hands and stared at Verminaard's broad, muscled back with undisguised loathing.
There was a scratch at the door.
"Enter," Verminaard commanded absently.
A draconian guard threw open the door, admitting Fewmaster Toede and his 
prisoners, then withdrew, swinging the great bronze and gold doors shut. 
Verminaard kept the Fewmaster waiting several long minutes while he continued to 
study his battle plan. Then, favoring Toede with a condescending gaze, he walked 
over and ascended the steps to his throne. It was elaborately carved to resemble 
the gaping jaws of a dragon.
Verminaard was an imposing figure. Tall and powerfully built, he wore dark 
night-blue dragonscale armor trimmed in gold. The hideous mask of a Dragon 
Highlord concealed his face. Moving with a grace remarkable in such a large man, 
he leaned back comfortably, his leather-encased hand absently caressing a black, 
gold-trimmed mace by his side.
Verminaard regarded Toede and his two captives irritably, knowing full well that 
Toede had dredged up these two in an effort to redeem himself from the 
disastrous loss of the cleric. When Verminaard discovered from his draconians 
that a woman matching the description of the cleric had been among those 
prisoners taken from Solace and that she had been allowed to escape, his fury 
was terrifying. Toede had nearly paid for his mistake with his life, but the 
hobgoblin was exceptionally skilled at whining and groveling. Knowing this, 
Verminaard had considered refusing to admit Toede at all today, but he had a 
strange, nagging sensation that all was not well in his realm.
It's that blasted cleric! Verminaard thought. He could sense her power coming 
nearer and nearer, making him nervous and uneasy. He intently studied the two 
prisoners Toede led into the room. Then, seeing that neither of them matched the 
descriptions of those who had raided Xak Tsaroth, Verminaard scowled behind the 
mask.
Pyros reacted differently to the sight of the prisoners. The transformed dragon 
half-rose to his feet while his thin hands clenched the ebony desktop with such 
ferocity he left the impressions of his fingers in the wood. Shaking with 
excitement, it took a great effort of will to force himself to sit back down, 
outwardly calm. Only his eyes, burning with a devouring flame, gave a hint of 
his inner elation as he stared at the prisoners.
One of the prisoners was a gully dwarf-Sestun, in fact. He was chained hand and 
foot (Toede was taking no chances) and could barely walk. Stumbling forward, he 
dropped to his knees before the Dragon Highlord, terror-stricken. The other 
prisoner-the one Pyros watched-was a human male, dressed in rags, who stood 
staring at the floor.
"Why have you bothered me with these wretches, Fewmaster?" Verminaard snarled.
Toede, reduced to a quivering mass, gulped and immediately launched into his 
speech. "This prisoner"-the hobgoblin kicked Sestun-"was the one who freed the 
slaves from Solace and this prisoner"-he indicated the man, who lifted his head, 
a confused and puzzled expression on his face-"was found wandering around 
Gateway which, as you know, has been declared off limits to all nonmilitary 
personnel."
"So why bring them to me?" asked Lord Verminaard irritably. "Throw them into the 
mines with the rest of the rabble."
Toede stammered. "I thought the human m-m-might b-be a s-spy. . . ."
The Dragon Highlord studied the human intently. He was tall, about fifty human 
years old. His hair was white and his clean-shaven face brown and weathered, 
streaked with lines of age. He was dressed like a beggar, which is probably what 
he was, Verminaard thought in disgust. There was certainly nothing unusual about 
him, except for his eyes which were bright and young. His hands, too, were those 
of a man in his prime. Probably elven blood. . . .
"The man is feeble-minded," Verminaard said finally. "Look at him-gaping like a 
landed fish."
"I b-b-believe he's, uh, deaf and dumb, my lord," Toede said, sweating.
Verminaard wrinkled his nose. Not even the dragonhelm could keep away the foul 
odor of perspiring hobgoblin.
"So you have captured a gully dwarf and a spy who can neither hear nor speak," 
Verminaard said caustically. "Well done, Toede. Perhaps now you can go out and 
pick me a bouquet of flowers."
"If that is your lordship's pleasure," Toede replied solemnly, bowing.
Verminaard began to laugh beneath his helm, amused in spite of himself. Toede 
was such a entertaining little creature-a pity he couldn't be taught to bathe. 
Verminaard waved his hand. "Remove them-and yourself."
"What shall I do with the prisoners, my lord?"
"Have the gully dwarf feed Ember tonight. And take your spy to the mines. Keep a 
watch on him though-he looks deadly!" The Dragon Highlord laughed.
Pyros ground his teeth and cursed Verminaard for a fool.
Toede bowed again. "Come on, you," he snarled, yanking on the manacles, and the 
man stumbled after him. "You, too!" He prodded Sestun with his foot. It was 
useless. The gully dwarf, hearing he was to feed the dragon, had fainted. A 
draconian was called to remove him.
Verminaard left his throne and walked over to his desk. He gathered up his maps 
in a great roll. "Send the wyvern with dispatches," he ordered Pyros. "We fly 
tomorrow morning to destroy Qualinesti. Be ready when I call."
When the bronze and golden doors had closed behind the Dragon Highlord, Pyros, 
"still in human form, rose from the desk and began to pace feverishly back and 
forth across the room. There came a scratching at the door.
"Lord Verminaard has gone to his chambers!" Pyros called out, irritated at the 
interruption.
The door opened a crack.
"It is you I wish to see, royal one," whispered a draconian.
"Enter," Pyros said. "But be swift."
"The traitor has been successful, royal one," the draconian said softly. "He was 
able to slip away only for a moment, lest they suspect. But he has brought the 
cleric-"
"To the Abyss with the cleric!" Pyros snarled. "This news is of interest only to 
Verminaard. Take it to him. No, wait." The dragon paused.
"As you instructed, I came to you first," the draconian said apologetically, 
preparing to make a hasty departure.
"Don't go," the dragon ordered, raising a hand. "This news is of value to me 
after all. Not the cleric. There is much more at stake. ... I must meet with our 
treacherous friend. Bring him to me tonight, in my lair. Do not inform Lord 
Verminaard-not yet. He might meddle." Pryos was thinking rapidly now, his plans 
coming together. "Verminaard has Qualinesti to keep him occupied."
As the draconian bowed and left the throne room, Pyros began pacing once again, 
back and forth, back and forth, rubbing his hands together, smiling.
 
 
12
The parable of the gem.
Traitor revealed. Tass dilemma.
 
"top that, you bold man!" Caramon simpered, slapping Eben's hand as the fighter 
slyly slid his hand up Caramon's skirt.
The women in the room laughed so heartily at the antics of the two warriors that 
Tanis glanced nervously at the cell door, afraid of arousing the suspicion of 
the guards.
Maritta saw his worried gaze. "Don't worry about the guards!" she said with a 
shrug. "There are only two down here on this level and they're drunk half the 
time, especially now that the army's moved out." She looked up from her sewing 
at the women and shook her head. "It does my heart good to hear them laugh, poor 
things," she said softly. "They've had little enough to laugh about these past 
days."
Thirty-four women were crowded into one cell-Maritta said there were sixty women 
living in another nearby-under conditions so shocking that even the hardened 
campaigners were appalled. Rude straw mats covered the floor. The women had no 
possessions beyond a few clothes. They were allowed outdoors for a brief 
exercise period each morning. The rest of the time they were forced to sew 
draconian uniforms. Though they had been imprisoned only a few weeks, their 
faces were pale and wan, their bodies thin and gaunt from the lack of nourishing 
food.
Tanis relaxed. Though he had known Maritta only a few hours, he already relied 
on her judgment. She was the one who had calmed the terrified women when the 
companions burst into their cell. She was the one who listened to their plan and 
agreed that it had possibilities.
"Our menfolk will go along with you," she told Tanis. "It's the Highseekers 
who'll give you trouble."
"The Council of Highseekers?" Tanis asked in astonishment. "They're here? 
Prisoners?"
Maritta nodded, frowning. "That was their payment for believing in that black 
cleric. But they won't want to leave, and why should they? They're not forced to 
work in the mines- the Dragon Highlord sees to that! But we're with you." She 
glanced around at the others, who nodded firmly. "On one condition-that you'll 
not put the children in danger."
"I can't guarantee that," Tanis said. "I don't mean to sound harsh, but we may 
have to fight a dragon to reach them and-"
"Fight a dragon? Flamestrike?" Maritta looked at him in amazement. "Pah! There's 
no need to fight the pitiful critter. In fact, were you to hurt her, you'd have 
half the children ready to tear you apart, they're that fond of her."
"Of a dragon?" Goldmoon asked. "What's she done, cast a spell on them?"
"No. I doubt Flamestrike could cast a spell on anything anymore." Maritta smiled 
sadly. "The poor critter's more than half-mad. Her own children were killed in 
some great war or other and now she's got it in her head that our children are 
her children. I don't know where his lordship dug her up, but it was a sorry 
thing to do and I hope he pays for it someday!" She snapped a thread viciously.
"Twon't be difficult to free the children," she added, seeing Tanis's worried 
look. "Flamestrike always sleeps late of a morning. We feed the children their 
breakfast, take them out for their exercise, and she never stirs. She'll never 
know they're gone till she wakes, poor thing."
The women, filled with hope for the first time, began modifying old clothes to 
fit the men. Things went smoothly until it came time to fit them.
"Shave!" Sturm roared in such fury that the women scurried away from the knight 
in alarm. Sturm had taken a dim view of the disguise idea, anyway, but had 
agreed to go along with it. It seemed the best way to cross the wide-open 
courtyard between the fortress and the mines. But, he announced, he would rather 
die a hundred deaths at the hands of the Dragon Highlord than shave his 
moustaches. He only calmed down when Tanis suggested covering his face with a 
scarf.
Just when that was settled, another crisis arose. Riverwind stated flatly that 
he would not dress up as a woman and no amount of arguing could convince him 
otherwise. Goldmoon finally took Tanis aside to explain that, in their tribe, 
any warrior who committed a cowardly act in battle was forced to wear women's 
clothes until he redeemed himself. Tanis was baffled by this one. But Maritta 
had wondered how they would manage to outfit the tall man anyway.
After much discussion, it was decided Riverwind would bundle up in a long cloak 
and walk hunched over, leaning on a staff like an old woman. Things went 
smoothly after this-for a time at least.
Laurana walked over to a corner of the room where Tanis was wrapping a scarf 
around his own face.
"Why don't you shave?" Laurana asked, staring at Tanis's beard. "Or do you truly 
enjoy flaunting your human side as Gilthanas says?"
"I don't flaunt it," Tanis replied evenly. "I just got tired of trying to deny 
it, that's all." He drew a deep breath. "Laurana, I'm sorry I spoke to you as I 
did back in the Sla-Mori. I had no right-"
"You had every right," Laurana interrupted. "What I did was the act of a 
lovesick little girl. I foolishly endangered your lives." Her voice faltered, 
then she regained control. "It will not happen again. I will prove I can be of 
value to the group."
Exactly how she meant to do this, she wasn't certain. Although she talked glibly 
about being skilled in fighting, she had never killed so much as a rabbit. She 
was so frightened now that she was forced to clasp her hands behind her back to 
keep Tanis from seeing how she trembled. She was afraid that if she let herself, 
she would give way to her weakness and seek comfort in his arms, so she left him 
and went over to help Gilthanas with his disguise.
Tanis told himself he was glad Laurana was showing some signs of maturity at 
last. He steadfastly refused to admit that his soul stood breathless whenever he 
looked into her large, luminous eyes.
The afternoon passed swiftly and soon it was evening and time for the women to 
take dinner to the mines. The companions waited for the guards in tense silence, 
laughter forgotten. There had, after all, been one last crisis. Raistlin, 
coughing until he was exhausted, said he was too weak to accompany them. When 
his brother offered to stay behind with him, Raistlin glared at him irritably 
and told him not to be a fool.
"You do not need me this night," the mage whispered. "Leave me alone. I must 
sleep."
"I don't like leaving him here-" Gilthanas began, but before he could continue, 
they heard the sound of clawed feet outside the cell, and another sound of pots 
rattling. The cell door swung open and two draconian guards, both smelling 
strongly of stale wine, stepped inside. One of them reeled a bit as it peered, 
bleary-eyed, at the women.
"Get moving," it said harshly.
As the "women" filed out, they saw six gully dwarves standing in the corridor, 
lugging large pots of some sort of nameless stew. Caramon sniffed hungrily, then 
wrinkled his nose in digust. The draconians slammed the cell door shut behind 
them. Glancing back, Caramon saw his twin, shrouded in blankets, lying in a 
dark, shadowy corner.
Fizban clapped his hands. "Well done, my boy!" said the old magician in 
excitement as part of the wall in the Mechanism Room swung open.
"Thanks," Tas replied modestly "Actually, finding the secret door was more 
difficult than opening it. I don't know how you managed. I thought I'd looked 
everywhere."
He started to crawl through the door, then stopped as a thought occurred to him. 
"Fizban, is there any way you can tell that light of yours to stay behind? At 
least until we see if anyone's in here? Otherwise, I'm going to make an awfully 
good target and we're not far from Verminaard's chambers."
"I'm afraid not." Fizban shook his head. "It doesn't like to be left alone in 
dark places."
Tasslehoff nodded-he had expected the answer. Well, there was no use worrying 
about it. If the milk's spilled, the cat will drink it, as his mother used to 
say. Fortunately, the narrow hallway he crawled into appeared empty. The flame 
hovered near his shoulder. He helped Fizban through, then explored his 
surroundings. They were in a small hallway that ended abruptly not forty feet 
away in a flight of stairs descending into darkness. Double bronze doors in the 
east wall provided the only other exit.
"Now," muttered Tas, "we're above the throne room. Those stairs probably lead 
down to it. I suppose there's a million draconians guarding it! So that's out." 
He put his ear to the door.
"No sound. Let's look around." Pushing gently, he easily opened the double 
doors. Pausing to listen, Tas entered cautiously, followed closely by Fizban and 
the puffball flame.
"Some sort of art gallery," he said, glancing around a giant room where 
paintings, covered with dust and grime, hung on the walls. High slit windows in 
the walls gave Tas a glimpse of the stars and the tops of high mountains. With a 
good idea of where he was now, he drew a crude map in his head.
"If my calculations are correct, the throne room is to the west and the dragon's 
lair is to the west of that. At least that's where he went when Verminaard left 
this afternoon. The dragon must have some way to fly out of this building, so 
the lair should open up into the sky, which means a shaft of some sort, and 
maybe another crack where we can see what's going on."
So involved was Tas with his plans that he was not paying any attention to 
Fizban. The old magician was moving purposefully around the room, studying each 
painting as if searching for one in particular.
"Ah, here it is," Fizban murmured, then turned and whispered, "Tasslehoff!"
The kender lifted his head and saw the painting suddenly begin to glow with a 
soft light. "Look at that!" Tasslehoff said, entranced. "Why, its a painting of 
dragons-red dragons like Ember-attacking Pax Tharkas and . . ."
The kender's voice died. Men-Knights of Solamnia-mounted on other dragons were 
fighting back! The dragons the Knights rode were beautiful dragons-gold and 
silver dragons-and the men carried bright weapons that gleamed with a shining 
radiance. Suddenly Tasslehoff understood!
There were good dragons in the world-if they could be found-who would help fight 
the evil dragons, and there was-
"The Dragonlance!" he murmured.
The old magician nodded to himself. "Yes, little one," he whispered. "You 
understand. You see the answer. And you will remember. But not now. Not now." 
Reaching out, he ruffled the kender's hair with his gnarled hand.
"Dragons. What was I saying?" Tas couldn't remember. And what was he doing here 
anyhow, staring at a painting so covered with dust he couldn't make it out. The 
kender shook his head. Fizban must be rubbing off on him. "Oh, yes. The dragon's 
lair. If my calculations are correct, it's over here." He walked away.
The old magician shuffled along behind, smiling.
The companions' journey to the mines proved uneventful. They saw only a few 
draconian guards, and they appeared half-asleep with boredom. No one paid any 
attention to the women going by. They passed the glowing forge, continually fed 
by a scrambling mass of exhausted gully dwarves.
Hurrying past that dismal sight quickly, the companions entered the mines where 
draconian guards locked the men in huge cave rooms at night, then returned to 
keep an eye on the gully dwarves. Guard duty over the men was a waste of time, 
anyway, Verminaard figured-the humans weren't going anyplace.
And, for a while, it looked to Tanis as if this might prove horribly true. The 
men weren't going anyplace. They stared at Goldmoon, unconvinced, as she spoke. 
After all, she was a barbarian-her accent was strange, her dress even stranger. 
She told what seemed a children's tale of a dragon dying in a blue flame she 
herself survived. And all she had to show for it was a collection of shining 
platinum disks.
Hederick, the Solace Theocrat, was loud in his denunciation of the Que-shu woman 
as a witch and a charlatan and a blasphemer. He reminded them of the scene in 
the Inn, exhibiting his scarred hand as evidence. Not that the men paid a great 
deal of attention to Hederick. The Seeker gods, after all, had not kept the 
dragons from Solace.
Many of them, in fact, were interested in the prospect of escape. Nearly all 
bore some mark of ill-treatment-whip lashes, bruised faces. They were poorly 
fed, forced to live in conditions of filth and squalor, and everyone knew that 
when the iron beneath the hills was gone, their usefulness to Lord Verminaard 
would end. But the Highseekers-still the governing body, even in prison-opposed 
such a reckless plan.
Arguments started. The men shouted back and forth. Tanis hastily posted Caramon, 
Flint, Eben, Sturm, and Gilthanas at the doors, fearing the guards would hear 
the disturbance and return. The half-elf hadn't expected this-the arguing might 
last for days! Goldmoon sat despondently before the men, looking as though she 
might cry. She had been so imbued with her newfound convictions, and so eager to 
bring her knowledge to the world, that she was cast into despair when her 
beliefs were doubted.
"These humans are fools!" Laurana said softly, coming up to stand beside Tanis.
"No," replied Tanis, sighing. "If they were fools, it would be easier. We 
promise them nothing tangible and ask them to risk the only thing they have 
left-their lives. And for what? To flee into the hills, fighting a running 
battle all the way. At least here they are alive-for the time being."
"But how can life be worth anything, living like this?" Laurana asked.
"That's a very good question, young woman," said a feeble voice. They turned to 
see Maritta kneeling beside a man lying on a crude cot in a corner of the cell. 
Wasted with illness and deprivation, his age was indeterminable. He struggled to 
sit up, stretching out a thin, pale hand to Tanis and Laurana. His breath 
rattled in his chest. Maritta tried to hush him, but he stared at her irritably. 
"I know I'm dying, woman! It doesn't mean I have to be bored to death first. 
Bring that barbarian woman over to me."
Tanis looked at Maritta questioningly. She rose and came over, drawing him to 
one side. "He is Elistan," she said as if Tanis should know the name. When Tanis 
didn't respond, she clarified. "Elistan-one of the Highseekers from Haven. He 
was much loved and respected by the people, the only one who spoke out against 
this Lord Verminaard. But no one listened-not wanting to hear, of course."
"You speak of him in the past tense," Tanis said. "He isn't dead yet."
"No, but it won't be long." Maritta wiped away a tear. "I've seen the wasting 
sickness before. My own father died of it. There's something inside of him, 
eating him alive. These last few days he has been half-mad with the pain, but 
that's gone now. The end is very near."
"Maybe not." Tanis smiled. "Goldmoon is a cleric. She can heal him."
"Perhaps, perhaps not," Maritta said skeptically. "I wouldn't want to chance it. 
We shouldn't excite Elistan with false hope. Let him die in peace."
"Goldmoon," Tanis said as the Chieftain's Daughter came near. "This man wants to 
meet you." Ignoring Maritta, the half-elf led Goldmoon over to Elistan. 
Goldmoon's face, hard and cold with disappointment and frustration, softened as 
she saw the man's pitiful condition.
Elistan looked up at her. "Young woman," he said sternly, though his voice was 
weak, "you claim to bring word from ancient gods. If it truly was we humans who 
turned from them, not the gods who turned from us as we've always thought, then 
why have they waited so long to make their presence known?"
Goldmoon knelt down beside the dying man in silence, thinking how to phrase her 
answer. Finally she said, "Imagine you are walking through a wood, carrying your 
most precious possession-a rare and beautiful gem. Suddenly you are attacked by 
a vicious beast. You drop the gem and run away. When you realize the gem is 
lost, you are afraid to go back into the woods and search for it. Then someone 
comes along with another gem. Deep in your heart, you know it is not as valuable 
as the one you lost, but you are still too frightened to go back to look for the 
other. Now, does this mean the gem has left the forest, or is it still lying 
there, shining brightly beneath the leaves, waiting for you to return?"
Elistan closed his eyes, sighing, his face filled with anguish. "Of course, the 
gem waits for our return. What fools we have been! I wish I had time to learn of 
your gods," he said, reaching out his hand.
Goldmoon caught her breath, her face drained until she was nearly as pale as the 
dying man on the cot. "You will be given time," she said softly, taking his hand 
in hers.
Tanis, absorbed in the drama before him, started in alarm when he felt a touch 
on his arm. He turned around, his hand on his sword, to find Sturm and Caramon 
standing behind him.
"What is it?" he asked swiftly. "The guards?"
"Not yet," Sturm said harshly. "But we can expect them any minute. Both Eben and 
Gilthanas are gone."
Night deepened over Pax Tharkas.
Back in his lair, the red dragon, Pyros, had no room to pace, a habit he had 
fallen into in his human form. He barely had room to spread his wings in this 
chamber, though it was the largest in the fortress and had even been expanded to 
accommodate him. But the ground-floor chamber was so narrow, all the dragon 
could do was turn his great body around.
Forcing himself to relax, the dragon laid down upon the floor and waited, his 
eyes on the door. He didn't notice two heads peeking over the railing of a 
balcony on the third level far above him.
There was a scratch on the door. Pyros raised his head in eager anticipation, 
then dropped it again with a snarl as two goblins appeared, dragging between 
them a wretched specimen.
"Gully dwarf!" Pyros sneered, speaking Common to underlings. "Verminaard's taken 
leave of his senses if he thinks I'd eat gully dwarf. Toss him in a corner and 
get out!" he snarled at the goblins who hastened to do as instructed. Sestun 
cowered in the corner, whimpering.
"Shut up!" Pyros ordered irritably. "Perhaps I should just flame you and stop 
that blubbering-"
There came another sound at the door, a soft knocking the dragon recognized. His 
eyes burned red. "Enter!"
A figure came into the lair of the dragon. Dressed in a long cloak, a hood 
covered its face.
"I have come as you commanded, Ember," the figure said softly.
"Yes," Pyros replied, his talons scratching the floor. "Remove the hood. I would 
see the faces of those I deal with."
The man cast his hood back. Up above the dragon, on the third level, came a 
strangled, choking gasp. Pyros stared up at the darkened balcony. He considered 
flying up to investigate, but the figure interrupted his thought.
"I have only limited time, royal one. I must return before they suspect. And I 
should report to Lord Verminaard-"
"In due course," Pyros snapped irritably. "What are these fools that you 
accompany plotting?"
"They plan to free the slaves and lead them in revolt, forcing Verminaard to 
recall the army marching on Qualinesti."
"That's all?"
"Yes, royal one. Now I must warn the Dragon Highlord."
"Bah! What does that matter? It will be I who deal with the slaves if they 
revolt. Unless they have plans for me?"
"No, royal one. They fear you a great deal, as all must," the figure added. 
"They will wait until you and Lord Verminaard have flown to Qualinesti. Then 
they will free the children and escape into the mountains before you return."
"That seems to be a plan equal to their intelligence. Do not worry about 
Verminaard. I will see he learns of this when I am ready for him to learn of it. 
Much greater matters are brewing. Much greater. Now listen closely. A prisoner 
was brought in today by that imbecile Toede-" Pyros paused, his eyes glowing. 
His voice dropped to a hissing whisper. "It is he! The one we seek!"
The figure stared in astonishment. "Are you certain?"
"Of course!" Pyros snarled viciously. "I see this man in my dreams! He is 
here-within my grasp! When all of Krynn is searching for him-I have found him!"
"You will inform Her Dark Majesty?"
"No. I dare not trust a messenger. I must deliver this man in person, but I 
cannot leave now. Verminaard cannot deal with Qualinesti alone. Even if the war 
is just a ruse, we must keep up appearances, and the world will be better for 
the absence of elves anyway. I will take the Everman to the Queen when time
permits."
"So why tell me?" the figure asked, an edge in his voice.
"Because you must keep him safe!" Pyros shifted his great bulk into a more 
comfortable position. His plans were coming together rapidly now. "It is a 
measure of Her Dark Majesty's power that the cleric of Mishakal and the man of 
the green gemstone arrive together within my reach! I will allow Verminaard the 
pleasure of dealing with the cleric and her friends tomorrow. In fact-Pyros's 
eyes gleamed-"this may work out quite well! We can remove the Green Gemstone Man 
in the confusion and Verminaard will know nothing! When the slaves attack, you 
must find the Green Gemstone Man. Bring him back here and hide him in the lower 
chambers. When the humans have all been destroyed, and the army has wiped out 
Qualinesti, I will deliver him to my Dark Queen."
"I understand." The figure bowed again. "And my reward?"
"Will be all you deserve. Now leave me."
The man cast the hood up over his head and withdrew. Pyros folded his wings and, 
curling his great body around with the huge tail up over his snout, he lay 
staring into the darkness. The only sound that could be heard was Sestun's 
pitiful weeping.
"Are you all right?" Fizban asked Tasslehoff gently as they sat crouched by the 
balcony, afraid to move. It was pitch dark, Fizban having overturned a vase on 
the highly indignant puffball flame.
"Yes," Tas said dully. "I'm sorry I choked like that. I couldn't help myself. 
Even though I expected it-sort of-it's still hard to realize someone you know 
could betray you. Do you think the dragon heard me?"
"I couldn't say." Fizban sighed. "The question is, what do we do now?"
"I don't know," Tas said miserably. "I'm not supposed to be the one that thinks. 
I just come along for the fun. We can't warn Tanis and the others, because we 
don't know where they are. And if we start wandering around looking for them, we 
might get caught and only make things worse!" He put his chin in his hand. "You 
know," he said with unusual somberness, "I asked my father once why kenders were 
little, why we weren't big like humans and elves. I really wanted to be big," he 
said softly and for a moment he was quiet.
"What did your father say?" asked Fizban gently.
"He said kenders were small because we were meant to do small things. 'If you 
look at all the big things in the world closely,' he said, 'you'll see that 
they're really made up of small things all joined together.' That big dragon 
down there comes to nothing but tiny drops of blood, maybe. It's the small 
things that make the difference."
"Very wise, your father."
"Yes." Tas brushed his hand across his eyes. "I haven't seen him in a long 
time." The kender's pointed chin jutted forward, his lips tightened. His father, 
if he had seen him, would not have known this small, resolute person for his 
son.
"We'll leave the big things to the others," Tas announced finally. "They've got 
Tanis and Sturm and Goldmoon. They'll manage. We'll do the small thing, even if 
it doesn't seem very important. We're going to rescue Sestun."
 
 
13
Questions.
No answers. Fizban's hat.
 
"I heard something, Tanis, and I went to investigate," Eben said, his mouth set 
in a firm line. "I looked outside the cell door I was guarding and I saw a 
draconian crouched there, listening. I crept out and got it in a choke hold, 
then a second one jumped me. I knifed it, then took off after the first. I 
caught it and knocked it out, then decided I better get back here."
The companions had returned to the cells to find both Gilthanas and Eben waiting 
for them. Tanis had Maritta keep the women busy in a far corner while he 
questioned the two about their absence. Eben's story appeared true-Tanis had 
seen the bodies of the draconians as he returned to the prison-and Eben had 
certainly been in a fight. His clothes were torn, blood trickled from a cut on 
his cheek.
Tika got a relatively clean cloth from one of the women and began washing the 
cut. "He saved our lives, Tanis," she snapped. "I'd think you'd be grateful, 
instead of glaring at him as if he'd stabbed your best friend."
"No, Tika," Eben said gently. "Tanis has a right to ask. It did look suspicious, 
I admit. But I have nothing to hide." Catching hold of her hand, he kissed her 
fingertips. Tika flushed and dipped the cloth in water, raising it to his cheek 
again. Caramon, watching, scowled.
"What about you, Gilthanas?" the warrior asked abruptly. "Why did you leave?"
"Do not question me," the elf said sullenly. "You don't want to know."
"Know what?" Tanis said sternly. "Why did you leave?"
"Leave him alone!" Laurana cried, going to her brother's side.
Gilthanas's almond-eyes flashed as he glanced at them; his face was drawn and 
pale.
"This is important, Laurana," Tanis said. "Where did you go, Gilthanas?"
"Remember-I warned you." Gilthanas's eyes shifted to Raistlin. "I returned to 
see if our mage was really as exhausted as he said. He must not have been. He 
was gone."
Caramon stood up, his fists clenched, his face distorted with anger. Sturm 
grabbed hold of him and shoved him backwards as Riverwind stepped in front of 
Gilthanas.
"All have a right to speak and all have a right to respond in their own 
defense," the Plainsman said in his deep voice. "The elf has spoken. Let us hear 
from your brother."
"Why should I speak?" Raistlin whispered harshly, his voice soft and lethal with 
hatred. "None of you trusts me, so why should you believe me? I refuse to 
answer, and you may think as you choose. If you believe I am a traitor-kill me 
now! I will not stop you-" He began to cough.
"You'll have to kill me, too," Caramon said in a choked voice. He led his 
brother back to his bed.
Tanis felt sick.
"Double watches all night. No, not you, Eben. Sturm, you and Flint first, 
Riverwind and I'll take second." Tanis slumped down on the floor, his head on 
his arms. We've been betrayed, he thought. One of those three is a traitor and 
has been all along. The guards might come at any moment. Or perhaps Verminaard 
was more subtle, some trap to catch us all. . . .
Then Tanis saw it all with sickening clarity. Of course! Verminaard would use 
the revolt as an excuse to kill the hostages and the cleric. He could always get 
more slaves, who would have a horrible example before their eyes of what 
happened to those who disobeyed him. This plan-Gilthanas's plan-played right 
into his hands!
We should abandon it, Tanis thought wildly, then he forced himself to calm down. 
No, the people were too excited. Following Elistan's miraculous healing and his 
announced determination to study these ancient gods, the people had hope. They 
believed that the gods had truly come back to them. But Tanis had seen the other 
Highseekers look at Elistan jealously. He knew that, though they made a show of 
supporting the new leader, given time they would try and subvert him. Perhaps, 
even now, they were moving among the people, spreading doubt.
If we backed out now, they'd never trust us again, Tanis thought. We must go 
ahead-no matter how great the risk. Besides, perhaps he was wrong. Maybe there 
was no traitor. Hoping, he fell into a fitful sleep.
The night passed in silence.
Dawn filtered through the gaping hole in the tower of the fortress. Tas blinked, 
then sat up, rubbing his eyes, wondering for a moment where he was. I'm in a big 
room, he thought, staring up at a high ceiling that had a hole cut in it to 
allow the dragon access to the outside. There are two other doors, besides the 
one Fizban and I came through last night.
Fizban! The dragon!
Tas groaned, remembering. He hadn't meant to fall asleep! He and Fizban had only 
been waiting until the dragon slept to rescue Sestun. Now it was morning! 
Perhaps it was too late! Fearfully the kender crept to the balcony and peered 
over the edge. No! He sighed in relief. The dragon was asleep. Sestun slept, 
too, worn out with fear.
Now was their chance! Tasslehoff crawled back to the mage.
"Old One!" he whispered. "Wake up!" He shook him.
"What? Who? Fire?" The mage sat up, peering around blearily. "Where? Run for the 
exits!"
"No, not a fire." Tas sighed. "It's morning. Here's your hat-" He handed it to 
the magician who was groping around, searching for it. "What happened to the 
puffball light?"
"Humpf!" Fizban sniffed. "I sent it back. Kept me awake, shining in my eyes."
"We were supposed to stay awake, remember?" Tas said in exasperation. "Rescue 
Sestun from the dragon?"
"How were we going to do that?" Fizban asked eagerly.
"You were the one with the plan!"
"I was? Dear, dear." The old magician blinked. "Was it a good one?"
"You didn't tell me!" Tas nearly shouted, then he calmed down. "All you said was 
that we had to rescue Sestun before breakfast, because gully dwarf might start 
looking more appetizing to a dragon who hadn't eaten in twelve hours."
"Makes sense," Fizban conceded. "Are you sure I said it?"
"Look," said Tasslehoff patiently, "all we really need is a long rope to throw 
down to him. Can't you magic that up?"
"Rope!" Fizban glared at him. "As if I'd stoop so low! That is an insult to one 
of my skill. Help me stand."
Tas helped the mage stand. "I didn't mean to insult you," the kender said, "and 
I know there's nothing fancy about rope and you are very skilled. . . . It's 
just that-oh, all right!" Tas gestured toward the balcony. "Go ahead. I just 
hope we all survive," he muttered under his breath.
"I won't let you down-or Sestun either, for that matter," Fizban promised, 
beaming. The two peeked over the balcony. Everything was as before. Sestun lay 
in a corner. The dragon slept soundly. Fizban closed his eyes. Concentrating, he 
murmured eerie words, then stretched his thin hand through the railing of the 
balcony and began to make a lifting motion.
Tasslehoff, watching, felt his heart fly up in his throat. "Stop!" he gurgled. 
"You've got the wrong one!"
Fizban's eyes flew open to see the red dragon, Pyros, slowly rising off the 
floor, his body still curled in sleep. "Oh, dear!" the magician gasped and, 
quickly saying different words, he reversed the spell, lowering the dragon to 
the ground. "Missed my aim," the mage said. "Now I'm zeroed in. Let's try 
again."
Tas heard the eerie words again. This time Sestun began to rise off the floor 
and, breath by breath, came level with the balcony. Fizban's face grew red with 
exertion.
"He's almost here! Keep going!" Tas said, hopping up and down in excitement. 
Guided by Fizban's hand, Sestun sailed peacefully over the balcony. He came to 
rest on the dusty floor, still asleep.
"Sestun!" Tas whispered, putting his hand over the gully dwarf's mouth so that 
he wouldn't yell. "Sestun! It's me Tasslehoff. Wake up."
The gully dwarf opened his eyes. His first thought was that Verminaard had 
decided to feed him to a vicious kender instead of the dragon. Then the gully 
dwarf recognized his friend and went limp with relief.
"You're safe, but don't say a word," the kender warned. "The dragon can still 
hear us-" He was interrupted by a loud booming from below. The gully dwarf sat 
up in alarm.
"Shhh," said Tas, "probably just the door into the dragon's lair." He hurried 
back to the balcony where Fizban was peering through the railing. "What is it?"
"The Dragon Highlord," Fizban pointed to the second level where Verminaard stood 
on a ledge overlooking the dragon.
"Ember, awaken!" Verminaard yelled down at the sleeping dragon. "I have received 
reports of intruders! That cleric is here, inciting the slaves to rebellion!"
Pyros stirred and slowly opened his eyes, awakening from a disturbing dream in 
which he'd seen a gully dwarf fly. Shaking his giant head to clear away the 
sleep, he heard Verminaard ranting about clerics. He yawned. So the Dragon 
Highlord had found out the cleric was in the fortress. Pyros supposed he'd have 
to deal with this now, after all.
"Do not trouble yourself, my lord-" Pyros began, then stopped abruptly, staring 
at something very strange.
"Trouble myself!" Verminaard fumed. "Why I-" He stopped, too. The object at 
which both stared was drifting down through the air, gently as a feather.
Fizban's hat.
Tanis woke everyone in the darkest hour before dawn.
"Well," said Sturm, "do we go ahead?"
"We have no choice," Tanis said grimly, looking at the group "If one of you has 
betrayed us, then he must live with the knowledge that he has brought about the 
deaths of innocents. Verminaard will kill not only us, but the hostages as well. 
I pray that there is no traitor, and so I'm going ahead with our plans."
No one said anything, but each glanced sideways at the others, suspicion gnawing 
at all of them.
When the women were awake, Tanis went over the plan again.
"My friends and I will sneak up to the children's room with Maritta, disguised 
as the women who usually bring the children breakfast. We'll lead them to the 
courtyard," Tanis said quietly. "You must go about your business as you do every 
morning. When you are allowed into the exercise area, get the children and start 
moving immediately toward the mines. Your menfolk will handle the guards there 
and you can escape safely into the mountains to the south. Do you understand?"
The women nodded silently as they heard the sound of the guards approaching.
"This is it," Tanis said softly. "Back to your work."
The women scattered. Tanis beckoned to Tika and Laurana.
"If we have been betrayed, you will both be in great danger, since you'll be 
guarding the women-" he began.
"We'll all be in great danger," Laurana amended coldly. She hadn't slept all 
night. She knew that if she released the tight bands she had wrapped around her 
soul, fear would overwhelm her.
Tanis saw none of this inner turmoil. He thought she appeared unusually pale and 
exceptionally beautiful this morning. A long-time campaigner himself, his 
preoccupation made him forget the terrors of a first battle.
Clearing his throat, he said huskily, "Tika, take my advice. Keep your sword in 
your scabbard. You're less dangerous, that way." Tika giggled and nodded 
nervously. "Go say goodbye to Caramon," Tanis told her.
Tika blushed crimson and, giving Tanis and Laurana a meaningful look, ran off.
Tanis gazed at Laurana steadily for a moment, and-for the first time-saw that 
her jaw muscles were clenched so tightly the tendons in her neck were stretched. 
He reached out to hold her, but she was stiff and cold as a draconian's corpse.
"You don't have to do this," Tanis said, releasing her. "This isn't your fight. 
Go to the mines with the other women."
Laurana shook her head, waiting to speak until she was certain her voice was 
under control. "Tika is not trained for fighting. I am. No matter if it was 
'ceremonial.' " She smiled bitterly at Tanis's look of discomfiture. "I will do 
my part, Tanis." His human name came awkwardly to her lips. "Otherwise, you 
might think I am a traitor."
"Laurana, please believe me!" Tanis sighed. "I don't think Gilthanas is a 
traitor any more than you do! It's just-damn it, there are so many lives at 
stake, Laurana! Can't you realize?"
Feeling his hands on her arms shake, she looked up at him and saw the anguish 
and the fear in his own face-mirroring the fear she felt inside. Only his was 
not fear for himself, it was fear for others.
She drew a deep breath. "I am sorry, Tanis," she said. "You are right. Look. The 
guards are here. It is time to go."
She turned and walked away without looking back. It didn't occur to her until it 
was too late that Tanis might have been silently asking for comfort himself.
Maritta and Goldmoon led the companions up a flight of narrow stairs to the 
first level. The draconian guards didn't accompany them, saying something about 
"special duty." Tanis asked Maritta if that was usual and she shook her head, 
her face worried. They had no choice but to go on. Six gully dwarves trailed 
after them, carrying heavy pots of what smelled like oatmeal. They paid little 
attention to the women until Caramon stumbled over his skirt climbing the stairs 
and fell to his knees, uttering a very unladylike oath. The gully dwarves' eyes 
opened wide.
"Don't even squeak!" Flint said, whirling around to face them, a knife flashing 
in his hand.
The gully dwarves cowered against the wall, shaking their heads frantically, the 
pots clattering.
The companions reached the top of the stairs and stopped.
"We cross this hall to the door-" Maritta pointed. "Oh, no!" She grasped Tanis's 
arm. "There's a guard at the door. It's never guarded!"
"Hush, it could be coincidence," Tanis said reassuringly, although he knew it 
wasn't. "Just keep on as we planned." Maritta nodded fearfully and walked across 
the hall.
"Guards!" Tanis turned to Sturm. "Be ready. Remember- quick and deadly. No 
noise!"
According to Gilthanas's map, the playroom was separated from the children's 
sleeping quarters by two rooms. The first was a storeroom which Maritta reported 
was lined with shelves containing toys and clothing and other items. A tunnel 
ran through this room to the second-the room that housed the dragon, 
Flamestrike.
"Poor thing," Maritta had said when discussing the plan with Tanis. "She is as 
much a prisoner as we are. The Dragon Highlord never allows her out. I think 
they're afraid she'll wander off. They've even built a tunnel through the 
storeroom, too small for her to fit through. Not that she wants to get out, but 
I think she might like to watch the children play."
Tanis regarded Maritta dubiously, wondering if they might encounter a dragon 
very different from the mad, feeble creature she described.
Beyond the dragon's lair was the room where the children slept. This was the 
room they would have to enter, to wake the children and lead them outdoors. The 
playroom connected directly with the courtyard through a huge door locked with a 
great oaken beam.
"More to keep the dragon in than us," Maritta stated.
It must be just about dawning, Tanis thought, as they emerged from the stairwell 
and turned toward the playroom. The torchlight cast their shadows ahead of them. 
Pax Tharkas was quiet, deathly quiet. Too quiet-for a fortress preparing for 
war. Four draconian guards stood huddled together talking at the doorway to the 
playroom. Their conversation broke off as they saw the women approach.
Goldmoon and Maritta walked in front, Goldmoon's hoodwas drawn back, her hair 
glimmering in the torchlight. Directly behind Goldmoon came Riverwind. Bent over 
a staff, the Plainsman was practically walking on his knees. Caramon and 
Raistlin followed, the mage staying close to his brother, then Eben and 
Gilthanas. All the traitors together, as Raistlin had sarcastically observed. 
Flint brought up the rear, turning occasionally to glower at the panic-stricken 
gully dwarves.
"You're early this morning," a draconian growled.
The women clustered like chickens in a half-circle around the guards and stood, 
waiting patiently to be allowed inside.
"It smells of thunder," Maritta said sharply. "I want the children to have their 
exercise before the storm hits. And what are you doing here? This door is never 
guarded. You'll frighten the children."
One of the draconians made some comment in their harsh language and two of the 
others grinned, showing rows of pointed teeth. The spokesman only snarled.
"Lord Verminaard's command. He and Ember are gone this morning to finish the 
elves. We're ordered to search you before you enter." The draconian's eyes 
fastened onto Goldmoon hungrily. "That's going to be a pleasure, I'd say."
"For you maybe," muttered another guard, staring at Sturm in disgust. "I've 
never seen an uglier female in my life than ugh-" The creature slumped over, a 
dagger thrust deep into its ribs. The other three draconians died within 
seconds. Caramon wrapped his hands around the neck of one. Eben hit his in the 
stomach and Flint lobbed off its head with an axe as it fell. Tanis stabbed the 
leader through the heart with his sword. He started to let go of the weapon, 
expecting it to remain stuck in the creature's stony corpse. To his amazement, 
his new sword slid out of the stone carcass as easily as if it had been nothing 
more than goblin flesh.
He had no time to ponder this strange occurrence. The gully dwarves, catching 
sight of the flash of steel, dropped their pots and ran wildly down the 
corridor.
"Never mind them!" Tanis snapped at Flint. "Into the playroom. Hurry!" Stepping 
over the bodies, he flung the door open.
"If anyone finds these bodies, it'll be all over," Caramon said.
"It was over before we began!" Sturm muttered angrily. "We've been betrayed, so 
it's just a matter of time."
"Keep moving!" Tanis said sharply, shutting the door behind them.
"Be very quiet," Maritta whispered. "Flamestrike generally sleeps soundly. If 
she does waken, act like women. She'll never recognize you. She's blind in one 
eye."
The chill dawn light filtered in through tiny windows high above the floor, 
shining on a grim, cheerless playroom. A few well-used toys lay scattered about. 
There was no furniture. Caramon walked over to inspect the huge wooden beam 
barring the double doors that led to the courtyard outside.
"I can manage," he said. The big man appeared to lift the beam effortlessly, 
then set it against the wall and shoved on the door. "Not locked from the 
outside," he reported. "I guess they didn't expect us to get this far."
Or perhaps Lord Verminaard wants us out there, Tanis thought. He wondered if 
what the draconian said was true. Had the Dragon Highlord and the dragon really 
gone? Or were they-angrily he wrenched his mind back. It doesn't matter, he told 
himself. We have no choice. We must go on.
"Flint, stay here," he said. "If anyone comes, warn us first, then fight."
Flint nodded and took a position just inside the door leading to the corridor, 
first opening it a crack to see. The draconian bodies had turned to dust on the 
floor.
Maritta took a torch from the wall. Lighting it, she led the companions through 
a dark archway into the tunnel leading to the dragon's lair.
"Fizban! Your hat!" Tas risked whispering.
Too late. The old magician made a grab for it but missed.
"Spies!" yelled Verminaard in a rage, pointing up to the balcony. "Capture them. 
Ember! I want them alive!"
Alive? the dragon repeated to himself. No, that could not be! Pyros recalled the 
strange sound he had heard last night and he knew without a doubt that these 
spies had overheard him talking about the Green Gemstone Man! Only a privileged 
few knew that dread secret, the great secret, the secret that would conquer the 
world for the Queen of Darkness. These spies must die, and the secret die with 
them.
Pyros spread his wings and launched himself into the air, using his powerful 
back legs to propel himself from the floor with tremendous speed.
This is it! thought Tasslehoff. Now we've done it. There's no escape this time.
Just as he resigned himself to being cooked by a dragon, he heard the magician 
shout a single word of command and a thick, unnatural darkness almost knocked 
the kender over.
"Run!" panted Fizban, grabbing the kenders hand and dragging Tas to his feet.
"Sestun-"
"I've got him! Run!"
Tasslehoff ran. They flew out the door and into the gallery, then he had no idea 
where he was going. He just kept hold of the old man and ran. Behind him he 
could hear the sound of the dragon whooshing up out of his lair and he heard the 
dragon's voice.
"So you are a magic-user, are you, spy?" Pyros shouted. "We can't have you 
running around in the dark. You might get lost. Let me light your way!"
Tasslehoff heard a great intake of breath into a giant body, then flames 
crackled and burned around him. The darkness vanished, driven away by the fire's 
flaring light, but, to his amazement, Tas wasn't touched by the flame. He looked 
at Fizban- hatless- running next to him. They were in the gallery still, heading 
for the double doors.
The kender twisted his head. Behind him loomed the dragon, more horrible than 
anything he had imagined, more terrifying than the black dragon in Xak Tsaroth, 
The dragon breathed on them again and once more Tas was enveloped by flame. The 
paintings on the walls blazed, furniture burned, curtains flared like torches, 
smoke filled the room. But none of it touched him and Sestun and Fizban. 
Tasslehoff looked at the mage in admiration, truly impressed.
"How long can you keep this up?" he shouted to Fizban as they wheeled around a 
corner, the double bronze doors in sight.
The old man's eyes were wide and staring. "I have no idea!" he gasped. "I didn't 
know I could do it at all!"
Another blast of flame exploded around them. This time, Tasslehoff felt the heat 
and glanced at Fizban in alarm. The mage nodded. "I'm losing it!" he cried.
"Hang on," Tasslehoff panted. "We're almost to the door! He can't get through 
it."
The three pushed through the bronze double doors that led from the gallery back 
into the hallway just as Fizban's magic spell wore off. Before them was the 
secret door, still open, that led to the Mechanism Room. Tasslehoff flung the 
bronze doors shut and stopped a moment to. catch his breath.
But just as he was about to say, "We made it!" one of the dragon's huge clawed 
feet broke through the stone wall, right above the kender's head!
Sestun, giving a shriek, headed for the stairs.
"No!" Tasslehoff grabbed him. "That leads to Verminaard's quarters!"
"Back to the Mechanism Room!" Fizban cried. They dashed through the secret door 
just as the stone wall gave way with a tremendous crash. But they could not shut 
the door.
"I have a lot to learn about dragons, apparently," Tas muttered. "I wonder if 
there are any good books on the subject-"
"So I have run you rats into your hole and now you are trapped," boomed Pyros's 
voice from outside. "You have nowhere to go and stone walls do not stop me."
There was a terrible grinding and grating sound. The walls of the Mechanism Room 
trembled, then began to crack.
"It was a nice try," Tas said ruefully. "That last spell was a doozy. Almost 
worth getting killed by a dragon to see."
"Killed!" Fizban seemed to wake up. "By a dragon? I should say not! I've never 
been so insulted. There must be a way out-" His eyes began to gleam. "Down the 
chain!"
"The chain?" repeated Tas, thinking he must have misunderstood, what with the 
walls cracking around him and the dragon roaring and all.
"We'll crawl down the chain! Come on!" Cackling with delight, the old mage 
turned and ran down the tunnel.
Sestun looked dubiously at Tasslehoff, but just then the dragon's huge claw 
appeared through the wall. The kender and the gully dwarf turned and ran after 
the old magician. 
By the time they reached the great wheel, Fizban had already crawled along the 
chain leading from the tunnel and reached the first tree-trunk tooth of the 
wheel itself. Tucking his robes up around his thighs, he dropped down from the 
tooth onto the first rung of the huge chain. The kender and gully dwarf swung 
onto the chain after him. Tas was just beginning to think they might get out of 
this alive after all, especially if the dark elf at the bottom of the chain had 
taken the day off, when Pyros burst suddenly into the shaft where the great 
chain hung.
Sections of the stone tunnel caved in around them, falling to the ground with a 
hollow booming thud. The walls shuddered, and the chain started to tremble. 
Above them hovered the dragon. He did not speak but simply stared at them with 
his red eyes. Then he drew in a huge breath that seemed to suck in the air of 
the whole valley. Tas started instinctively to close his eyes, then opened them 
wide. He'd never seen a dragon breathe fire and he wasn't going to miss seeing 
it now-especially as it would probably be his last chance.
Flames billowed out from the dragon's nose and mouth. The blast from the heat 
alone nearly knocked Tasslehoff off the chain. But, once again, the fire burned 
all around him and did not touch him. Fizban cackled with delight.
"Quite clever, old man," said the dragon angrily. "But I, too, am a magic-user 
and I feel you weakening. I hope your cleverness amuses you-all the way down!"
Flames flared out again, but this time the dragon's fire was not aimed at the 
trembling figures clinging to the chain. The flames struck the chain itself and 
the iron links began to glow red hot at the first touch of the dragonfire. Pyros 
breathed again and the links burned white hot. The dragon breathed a third time. 
The links melted. The massive chain gave a great shudder and broke, plunging 
into the darkness below.
Pyros watched it as it plummeted down. Then, satisfied that the spies would not 
live to tell their tale, he flew back to his lair where he could hear Verminaard 
shouting for him.
In the darkness left behind by the dragon, the great cogwheel-free of the chain 
that had held it in place for centuries-gave a groan and began to turn.
 
 
14
Matafleur.
The magic sword. White feathers.
 
The light from Maritta's torch illuminated a large, barren windowless room. 
There was no furniture. The only objects in the chill, stone chamber were a huge 
basin of water, a bucket filled with what smelled like rotted meat, and a 
dragon.
Tanis caught his breath. He had thought the black dragon in Xak Tsaroth 
formidable. He was truly awed at the massive size of this red dragon. Her lair 
was enormous, probably over one hundred feet in diameter, and the dragon 
stretched the length of it, the tip of her long tail lying against the far wall. 
For a moment the companions stood stunned, with ghastly visions of the giant 
head rising up and searing them with the burning flame breathed by the red 
dragons, the flames that had destroyed Solace.
Maritta did not appear worried, however. She advanced steadily into the room 
and, after a moment's hesitation, the companions hurried after her. As they drew 
closer to the creature, they could see that Maritta had been right-the dragon 
was clearly in pitiful condition. The great head that lay on the cold stone 
floor was lined and wrinkled with age, the brilliant red skin grayish and 
mottled. She breathed noisily through her mouth, her jaws parted to reveal the 
once sword-sharp teeth, now yellowed and broken. Long scars ran along her sides; 
her leathery wings were dry and cracked.
Now Tanis could understand Maritta's attitude. Clearly, the dragon had been 
ill-used, and he caught himself feeling pity, relaxing his guard. He realized 
how dangerous this was when the dragon-awakened by the torchlight-stirred in her 
sleep. Her talons were as sharp and her fire as destructive as any other red 
dragon in Krynn, Tanis reminded himself sharply.
The dragon's eyes opened, slits of glistening red in the torchlight. The 
companions halted, hands on their weapons.
"Is it time for breakfast already, Maritta?" Matafleur (Flamestrike being her 
name to common mortals) said in a sleepy, husky voice.
"Yes, we're just a bit early today, dearie," Maritta said soothingly. "But 
there's a storm brewing and I want the children to have their exercise before it 
breaks. Go back to sleep. I'll see they don't wake you on their way out."
"I don't mind." The dragon yawned and opened her eyes a bit farther. Now Tanis 
could see that one of them had a milky covering; she was blind in that eye.
"I hope we don't have to fight her, Tanis," Sturm whispered. "It'd be like 
fighting someone's grandmother."
Tanis forced his expression to harden. "She's a deadly grandmother, Sturm. Just 
remember that."
"The little ones had a restful night," the dragon murmured, apparently drifting 
off to sleep again. "See that they don't get wet if it does storm, Maritta. 
Especially little Erik. He had a cold last week." Her eyes closed.
Turning, Maritta beckoned the others on, putting her finger to her lips. Sturm 
and Tanis came last, their weapons and armor muffled by numerous cloaks and 
skirts. Tanis was about thirty feet from the dragon's head when the noise 
started.
At first he thought it was his imagination, that his nervousness was making him 
hear a buzzing sound in his head. But the sound grew louder and louder and Sturm 
turned, staring at him in alarm. The buzzing sound increased until it was like a 
thousand swarming locusts. Now the others were looking back, too-all of them 
staring at him! Tanis looked at his friends helplessly, an almost comic look of 
confusion on his face.
The dragon snorted and stirred in irritation, shaking her head as though the 
noise hurt her ears.
Suddenly Raistlin broke from the group and ran back to Tanis. "The sword!" he 
hissed. He grabbed the half-elf's cloak and threw it back to reveal the blade.
Tanis stared down at the sword in its antique scabbard. The mage was right. The 
blade hummed as if in the highest state of alarm. Now that Raistlin called his 
attention to it, the half-elf could actually feel the vibrations.
"Magic," the mage said softly, studying it with interest.
"Can you stop it?" yelled Tanis over the weird noise.
"No," said Raistlin. "I remember now. This is Wyrmslayer, the famed magical 
sword of Kith-Kanan. It is reacting to the presence of the dragon."
"This is an abysmal time to remember!" Tanis said in fury.
"Or a very convenient time," snarled Sturm.
The dragon slowly raised her head, her eyes blinking, a thin stream of smoke 
drifting from a nostril. She focused her bleary red eyes on Tanis, pain and 
irritation in her gaze.
"Who have you brought, Maritta?" Matafleur's voice was filled with menace. "I 
hear a sound I have not heard in centuries, I smell the foul smell of steel! 
These are not the women! These are warriors!"
"Don't hurt her!" Maritta wailed.
"I may not have any choice!" Tanis said viciously, drawing Wyrmslayer from its 
sheath. "Riverwind and Goldmoon, get Maritta out of here!" The blade began to 
shine with a brilliant white light as the buzzing grew louder and angrier. 
Matafleur shrank back. The light of the sword pierced her good eye painfully; 
the terrible sound went through her head like a spear.
Whimpering, she huddled away from Tanis.
"Run, get the children!" Tanis yelled, realizing that they didn't need to 
fight-at least not yet. Holding the shining sword high in the air, he moved 
forward cautiously, driving the pitiful dragon back against the wall.
Maritta, after one fearful glance at Tanis, led Goldmoon to-the children's room. 
About one hundred children were wide-eyed with alarm over the strange sounds 
outside their chamber.
Their faces relaxed at the sight of Maritta and Goldmoon and a few of the 
littler ones actually giggled when Caramon came rushing in, his skirts flapping 
around his armored legs. But at the sight of warriors and their drawn weapons, 
the children sobered immediately.
"What is it, Maritta?" asked the oldest girl. "What's happening? Is it fighting 
again?"
"We hope there'll be no fighting, dear one," Maritta said softly. "But I'll not 
lie to you-it may come to that. Now I want you to gather your things, 
particularly your warm cloaks, and come with us. The older of you carry the wee 
ones, as you do when we go outdoors for exercise."
Sturm expected confusion and wailing and demands for explanations. But the 
children quickly did as they were told, wrapping themselves in warm clothing and 
helping to dress the younger ones. They were quiet and calm, if a bit pale. 
These were children of war, Sturm remembered.
"I want you to move very swiftly through the dragon's lair and out into the 
playroom. When we get there, the big man"- Sturm gestured to Caramon-"will lead 
you out into the courtyard. Your mothers are waiting for you there. When you get 
outside, look immediately for your mother and go to her. Does everyone 
understand?" He glanced dubiously at the smaller children, but the girl at the 
front of the line nodded.
"We understand, sir," she said.
"All right," Sturm turned. "Caramon?"
The warrior, flushing in embarrassment as one hundred pairs of eyes turned to 
look at him, led the way back into the dragon's lair. Goldmoon scooped up a 
toddler in her arms, Maritta picked up another one. The older boys and girls 
carried little ones on their backs. They hurried out the door in orderly 
fashion, without saying a word until they saw Tanis, the gleaming sword, and the 
terrified dragon.
"Hey, you! Don't hurt our dragon!" one little boy yelled. Leaving his place in 
line, the child ran up to Tanis, his fists raised, his face twisted into a 
snarl.
"Dougl!" cried the oldest girl, shocked. "Get back in line this instant!" But 
some of the children were crying now.
Tanis, the sword still raised-knowing that this was the only thing keeping the 
dragon at bay-shouted, "Get them out of here!"
"Children, please!" Chieftain's Daughter, her voice stern and commanding, 
brought order to the chaos. "Tanis will not hurt the dragon if he does not have 
to. He is a gentle man. You must leave now. Your mothers need you."
There was an edge of fear in Goldmoon's voice, a feeling of urgency that 
influenced even the youngest child. They got back into line quickly.
"Goodbye, Flamestrike," several of the children called out, wistfully, waving 
their hands as they followed Caramon. Dougl gave Tanis one final threatening 
glance, then he returned to line, wiping his eyes with grubby fists.
"No!" shrieked Matafleur in a heartbroken voice. "No! Don't fight my children. 
Please! It is me you want! Fight me! Don't harm my children!" 
Tanis realized the dragon was back in her past, reliving whatever terrible event 
had deprived her of her children, 
Sturm stayed near Tanis. "She's going to kill you when the children are out of 
danger, you know." 
"Yes," said Tanis grimly. Already the dragon's eyes-even the bad eye-were 
flaring red. Saliva dripped from the great, gaping mouth, and her talons 
scratched the floor. 
"Not my children!" she said with rage.
"I'm with you-" Sturm began, drawing his sword.
"Leave us, knight," Raistlin whispered softly from the shadows. '"Your weapon is 
useless. I will stay with Tanis" 
The half-elf glanced at the mage in astonishment. Raistlin's strange, golden 
eyes met his, knowing what he was thinking do I trust him? Raistlin gave him no 
help, almost as if he were goading him to refusal.
"Get out," Tanis said to Sturm. 
What?" he yelled. "Are you crazy? You're trusting this-"
"Get out!" Tanis repeated. At that moment, he heard Flint yelling loudly. "Go, 
Sturm, they need you out there!"
The knight stood a moment, irresolute, but he could not in honor ignore a direct 
order from one he considered his commander. Casting a baleful glance at 
Raistlin, Sturm turned on his heel and entered the tunnel.
"There is little magic I can work against a red dragon," Raistlin whispered 
swiftly.
"Can you buy us time?" Tanis asked.
Raistlin smiled the smile of one who knows death is so near it is past fearing. 
"I can," he whispered. "Move back near the tunnel. When you hear me start to 
speak, run."
Tanis began backing up, still holding the sword high. But the dragon no longer 
feared its magic. She knew only that her children were gone and she must kill 
those responsible. She lunged directly at the warrior with the sword as he began 
to run toward the tunnel. Then darkness descended upon her, a darkness so deep 
Matafleur thought for a horrible moment she had lost the sight of the other eye. 
She heard whispered words of magic and knew the robed human had cast a spell.
"I'll burn them!" she howled, sniffing the smell of steel through the tunnel. 
"They will not escape!" But just as she sucked in a great breath, she heard 
another sound-the sound of her children. "No," she realized in frustration. "I 
dare not. My children! I might harm my children. . . " Her head drooped down on 
the cold stone floor. Tanis and Raistlin ran down the tunnel, the half-elf 
dragging the weakened mage with him. Behind them they heard a pitiful, 
heartbroken moan. "Not my children! Please, fight me! Don't hurt my children!"
Tanis emerged from the tunnel into the playroom, blinking in the bright light as 
Caramon swung the huge doors open to the rising sun. The children raced out the 
door into the courtyard. Through the door, Tanis could see Tika and Laurana, 
standing with their swords drawn, looking their way anxsiously. A draconian lay 
crumbling on the floor of the playroom, Flints battle-axe stuck in its back.
"Outside, all of you!" Tanis shouted. Flint, retrieving his battle-axe, joined 
the half-elf as the last to leave the playroom. As they did so, they heard a 
terrifying roar, the roar of a dragon, but a very different dragon than the 
pitiful Matafleur. Pyros had discovered the spies. The stone walls began to 
tremble-the dragon was rising from his lair.
"Ember!" Tanis swore bitterly. "He hasn't gone!"
The dwarf shook his head. "I'll bet my beard," he said gloomily, "that 
Tasslehoff's involved."
The broken chain plummeted to the stone floor of the Chain Room in the Sla-Mori, 
three little figures falling with it.
Tasslehoff, clinging uselessly to the chain, tumbled through the darkness and 
thought, this is how it feels to die. It was an interesting sensation and he was 
sorry he couldn't experience it longer. Above him, he could hear Sestun 
shrieking in terror. Below, he heard the old mage muttering to himself, probably 
trying one last spell. Then Fizban raised his voice: "Pveatherf-" The word was 
cut off with a scream. There was the sound of a bone-crushing thud as the old 
magician crashed to the floor. Tasslehoff grieved, even though he knew he was 
next. The stone floor was approaching. Within a very few seconds he too would be 
dead. . . .
Then it was snowing.
At least that was what the kender thought. Then he realized with a shock that he 
was surrounded by millions and millions of feathers-like an explosion of 
chickens! He sank into a deep, vast pile of white feathers, Sestun tumbling in 
after him.
"Poor Fizban," Tas said, blinking tears from his eyes as he floundered in an 
ocean of white chicken feathers. "His last spell must have been featherfall like 
Raistlin uses. Wouldn't you know it? He just got the feathers."
Above him, the cogwheel turned faster and faster, the freed chain rushing 
through it as if rejoicing in its release from bondge. 
Outdoors in the courtyard chaos reigned.
"Over here!" Tanis yelled, bursting out of the door, knowing they were doomed 
but refusing to give in. The companions gathered around him, weapons drawn, 
looking at him anxiously.
"Run to the mines! Run for shelter! Verminaard and the red dragon didn't leave. 
It is a trap. They'll be on us any moment."
The others, their faces grim, nodded. All of them knew it was hopeless-they must 
cover about two hundred yards of flat, wide-open surface to reach safety.
They tried to herd the women and children along as swiftly as possible, but not 
very successfully. All the mothers and children needed to be sorted out. Then 
Tanis, looking over at the mines, swore aloud in added frustration.
The men of the mines, seeing their families free, quickly overpowered the guards 
and began running toward the courtyard! That wasn't the plan! What was Elistan 
thinking about? Within moments there would be eight hundred frantic people 
milling around out in the open without a scrap of shelter! He had to get them to 
head back south to the mountains.
"Where's Eben?" he called to Sturm.
"Last I saw him, he was running for the mines. I couldn't figure out why-"
The knight and half-elf gasped in sudden realization.
"Of course," said Tanis softly his voice lost in the commotion "It all fits."
As Eben ran for the mines, his one thought was to obey Pyros's command. Somehow, 
in the midst of this furor, he had to find the Green Gemstone Man. He knew what 
Verminaard and Pyros were going to do to these poor wretches. Eben felt 
amoment's pity-he was not, after all, cruel and vicious. He had amply seen, long 
ago, which side was bound to win, and he -determined, for once, to be on a 
winning side.
When his family's fortune was wiped out, Eben was left with only one thing to 
sell-himself. He was intelligent, handy with a sword, and as loyal as money 
could buy. It was on a journey to north, looking for possible buyers, that Eben 
met Vermiaard. Eben had been impressed with Verminaard's power and had wormed 
his way into the evil cleric's favor. But more importantly, he had managed to 
make himself useful to Pyros. The dragon found Eben charming, intelligent, 
resourceful, and- after a few tests-trustworthy.
Eben was sent home to Gateway just before the dragonarmies struck. He 
conveniently "escaped" and started his resistance group. Stumbling upon 
Gilthanas's party of elves the first time they tried to sneak into Pax Tharkas 
was a stroke of luck that further improved Eben's relationship with both Pyros 
and Verminaard. When the cleric actually fell into Eben's hands, he couldn't 
believe his luck. It must go to show how much the Dark Queen favored him, he 
supposed.
He prayed that the Dark Queen continue to favor him. Finding the Green Gemstone 
Man in this confusion was going to take divine intervention. Hundreds of men 
were milling about uncertainly. Eben saw a chance to do Verminaard another 
favor. "Tanis wants you men to meet in the courtyard," he cried. "Join your 
families."
"No! That isn't the plan!" Elistan cried, trying to stop them. But he was too 
late. The men, seeing their families free, surged forward. Several hundred gully 
dwarves added to the confusion, rushing gleefully out of the mines to join the 
fun, thinking, perhaps, it was a holiday.
Eben scanned the crowd anxiously for the Green Gemstone Man, then dedded to look 
inside the prison cells. Sure enough, he found the man sitting alone, staring 
vaguely around the empty cell. Eben swiftly knelt beside him, racking his brain 
to come up with the man's name. It was something odd, old-fashioned. . . .
"Berem," Eben said after a moment. "Berem?"
The man looked up, interest lighting his face for the first time in many weeks. 
He was not, as Toede had assumed, deaf and dumb. He was, instead, a man 
obsessed, totally absorbed in his own secret quest. He was human, however, and 
the sound of a human voice speaking his name was inordinately comforting.
"Berem," said Eben again, licking his lips nervously. Now that he had him, he 
wasn't sure what to do with him. He knew the first thing those poor wretches 
outside would do when the dragon struck would be to head for the safety of the 
mines. He had to get Berem out of here before Tanis caught them. But where? He 
could take the man inside Pax Tharkas as Pyros had ordered, but Eben didn't like 
that idea. Verminaard would certainly find them and, his suspicions aroused, 
would ask questions Eben couldn't answer.
No, there was only one place Eben could take him and be safe-outside the walls 
of Pax Tharkas. They could lie low in the wilderness until the confusion died, 
then sneak back inside the fortress at night. His decision made, Eben took 
Berem's arm and helped the man rise to his feet.
'There's going to be fighting," he said. "I'm going to take you away, keep you 
safe until it is over. I am your friend. Do you understand?"
The man regarded him with a look of penetrating wisdom and intelligence. It was 
not the ageless look of the elves but of a human who has lived in torment for 
countless years. Berem gave a small sigh and nodded.
Verminaard strode from his chamber in a fury, yanking at his leather, armored 
gloves. A draconian trotted behind, carrying the Highlord's mace, Nightbringer. 
Other draconians milled around, acting on the orders Verminaard gave as he 
stepped into the corridor, returning to Pyros's lair.
"No, you fools, don't recall the army! This will take but a moment of my time. 
Qualinesti will be in flames by nightfall.
Ember!" he shouted, throwing open the doors that led to the dragon's lair. He 
stepped out onto the ledge. Peering upward toward the balcony he could see smoke 
and flame and, in the distance, hear the dragon's roar.
"Ember!" There was no answer. "How long does it take to capture a handful of 
spies?" he demanded furiously. Turning, he nearly fell over a draconian captain.
"Will you be using the dragonsaddle, my lord?"
"No, there isn't time. Besides, I use that only for combat and there will no one 
to fight out there, simply a few hundred slaves to burn."
"But the slaves have overcome the guards at the mine and are rejoining their 
families in the courtyard." 
"How strong are your forces?"
"Not nearly strong enough, my lord," the draconian captain said, its eyes 
glinting. The captain had never thought it wise to deplete the garrison. "We are 
forty or fifty, perhaps, to over three hundred men and an equal number of women. 
The women will undoubtedly fight alongside the men, your lordship, and if they 
never get organized and escape into the mountains-"
"Bah! Ember!" Verminaard called. He heard, in another part of the fortress, a 
heavy, metallic thud. Then he heard another sound, the great wheel-unused in 
centuries-creaking with protest at being forced into labor. Verminaard was 
wondering what these odd sounds portended, when Pyros flew down into his lair.
The Dragon Highlord ran to the ledge as Pyros dropped past him. Verminaard 
climbed swiftly and skillfully onto the dragon's back. Though separated by 
mutual distrust, the two fought well together. Their hatred for the petty races 
they strove to conquer, combined with their desire for power, joined them in a 
bond much stronger than either cared to admit.
"Fly!" Verminaard roared, and Pyros rose into the air.
"It is useless, my friend," Tanis said quietly to Sturm, laying his hand on the 
knight's shoulder as Sturm frantically called for order. "You're only wasting 
your breath. Save it for fighting."
"There'll be no fighting." Sturm coughed, hoarse from shouting. "We'll die, 
trapped like rats. Why won't these fools listen?"
He and Tanis stood at the northern end of the courtyard, about twenty feet from 
the front gates of Pax Tharkas. Looking south, they could see the mountains and 
hope. Behind them were the great gates of the fortress that would, at any 
moment, open to admit the vast draconian army, and within these walls, 
somewhere, were Verminaard and the red dragon.
In vain, Elistan sought to calm the people and urge them to move southwards. But 
the men insisted on finding their womenfolk, the women on finding their 
children. A few families, together again, were starting to move south, but too 
late and too slowly.
Then, like a blood-red, flaming comet, Pyros soared from the fortress of Pax 
Tharkas, his wings sleek, held close to his sides. His huge tail trailed behind 
him. His taloned forefeet were curled close to his body as he gained speed in 
the air. Upon his back rode the Dragon Highlord, the gilded horns of the hideous 
dragonmask glinting in the morning sun. Verminaard held onto the dragon's spiny 
mane with both hands as they flared into the sunlit sky, bringing night's 
shadows to the courtyard below.
The dragonfear spread over the people. Unable to scream or run, they could only 
cower before the fearful apparition, arms around each other, knowing death was 
inevitable.
At Verminaard's command, Pyros settled on one of the fortress towers. Verminaard 
stared out from behind the homed dragonmask, silent, furious.
Tanis, watching in helpless frustration, felt Sturm grip his arm. "Look!" The 
knight pointed north, toward the gates.
Tanis reluctantly Ipwered his gaze from the Dragon Highlord and saw two figures 
running toward the gates of the fortress.
"Eben!" he cried in disbelief. "But who's that with him?"
"He won't escape!" Sturm shouted. Before Tanis could stop him, the knight ran 
after the two. As Tanis followed, he saw a flash of red out of the comer of his 
eye-Raistlin and his twin.
"I, too, have a score to settle with this man," the mage hissed. The three 
caught up with Sturm just as the knight gripped Eben by the collar and hurled 
him to the ground.
'Traitor!" Sturm yelled loudly. 'Though I die this day, I'll send you to the 
Abyss first" He drew his sword and jerked Eben's head back. Suddenly Eben's 
companion whirled around, came back, and caught hold of Sturm's swordarm.
Sturm gasped. His hand loosened its grip on Eben as the knight stared, amazed at 
the sight before him.
The man's shirt had been torn open in his wild flight from the mines. Impaled in 
the man's flesh, in the center of his chest, was a brilliant green jewel! 
Sunlight flashed on the gem that was as big around as a man's fist, causing it 
to gleam with a bright and terrible light-an unholy light.
"I have never seen nor heard of magic like this!" Raistlin whispered in awe as 
he and the others stopped, stunned, beside Sturm.
Seeing their wide eyes focused on his body, Berem instinctively pulled his shirt 
over his chest. Then, loosening his hold on Sturm's arm, he turned and ran for 
the gates. Eben scrambled to his feet and stumbled after him.
Sturm leaped forward, but Tanis stopped him.
"No," he said. "It's too late. We have others to think of."
"Tanis, look!" Caramon shouted, pointing above the huge gates.
A section of the stone wall of the fortress above the massive front gates began 
to open, forming a huge, widening crack. Slowly at first, then with increasing 
speed, the massive granite boulders began to fall from the crack, smashing to 
the ground with such force that the flagstone cracked and great clouds of dust 
rose into the air. Above the roar could be dimly heard the sound of the massive 
chains releasing the mechanism.
The boulders began to fall just as Eben and Berem arrived at the gates. Eben 
shrieked in terror, instinctively and pitifully raised his arm to shield his 
head. The man next to him glanced up and-it seemed-gave a small sigh. Then both 
were buried under tons of cascading rock as the ancient defense mechanism sealed 
shut the gates of Pax Tharkas.
"This is your final act of defiance!" Verminaard roared. His speech had been 
interrupted by the fall of the rocks, an act that only enraged him more. "I 
offered you a chance to work to further the glory of my Queen. I cared for you 
and your families. But you are stubborn and foolish. You will pay with your 
lives!" The Dragon Highlord raised Nightbringer high in the air. "I will destroy 
the men. I will destroy the women! I will destroy the children!"
At a touch of the Dragon Highlord's hand, Pyros spread his huge wings and leaped 
high into the air. The dragon drew in a deep breath, preparing to swoop down 
upon the mass of people who wailed in terror in the wide-open courtyard and 
incinerate them with his fiery breath.
But the dragon's deadly dive was stopped.
Sweeping up into the sky from the pile of rubble made when she crashed out of 
the fortress, Matafleur flew straight at Pyros.
The ancient dragon had sunk deeper into her madness. Once more she relived the 
nightmare of losing her children. She could see the knights upon the silver and 
golden dragons, the wicked dragonlances gleaming in the sunshine. In vain she 
pleaded with her children not to join the hopeless fight, in vain she sought to 
convince them the war was at an end. They were young and would not listen. They 
flew off, leaving her weeping in her lair. As she watched in her mind's eye the 
bloody, final battle, as she saw her children die upon the dragonlances, she 
heard Verminaard's voice.
"I will destroy the children!"
And, as she had done so many centuries before, Matafleur flew out to defend 
them.
Pyros, stunned by the unexpected attack, swerved just in time to avoid the 
broken, yet still lethal teeth of the old dragon aiming for his unprotected 
flanks. Matafleur hit him a glancing blow, tearing painfully into one of the 
heavy muscles that drove the giant wings. Rolling in the air, Pyros lashed out 
at the passing Matafleur with a wicked, taloned forefoot, tearing a gash in the 
female dragon's soft underbelly.
In her madness, Matafleur did not even feel the pain, but the force of the 
larger and younger male dragon's blow knocked her backwards in the air.
The rollover manuever had been an instinctive defensive action on the part of 
the male dragon. He had been able to gain both altitude and time to plan his 
attack. He had, however, forgotten his rider. Verminaard- riding without the 
dragonsaddle he used in battle-lost his grip on the dragon's neck and fell to 
the courtyard below. It was not a long drop and he landed uninjured, only 
bruised and momentarily shaken.
Most of the people around him fled in terror when they saw him rise to his feet, 
but-glancing around swiftly-he noticed that there were four, near the northern 
end of the courtyard, who did not flee. He turned to face those four.
The appearance of Matafleur and her sudden attack on Pyros jolted the captive 
people out of their state of panic. This, combined with the fall of Verminaard 
into their midst, like the fall of some horrifying god, accomplished what 
Elistan and the others had not. The people were shaken out of their fear, sense 
returned, and they began fleeing south, toward the safety of the mountains. At 
this sight, the draconian captain sent his forces pouring into the crowd. He 
detailed another messenger, a wyvem, to fly from the fortress to recall the 
army.
The draconians surged into the refugees, but, if they hoped to cause a panic, 
they failed. The people had suffered enough. They had allowed their freedom to 
be taken away once, in return for the promise of peace and safety. Now they 
understood that there could be no peace as long as these monsters roamed Krynn. 
The people of Solace and Gateway-men, women, and children- fought back using 
every pitiful weapon they could grab-rocks, stones, their own bare hands, teeth, 
and nails.
The companions became separated in the crowd. Laurana was cut off from everyone. 
Gilthanas had tried to stay near her, but he was carried off in the mob. The 
elfmaiden, more frightened than she believed possible and longing to hide, fell 
back against the wall of the fortress, her sword in her hand. As she watched the 
raging battle in horror, a man fell to the ground in front her, clutching his 
stomach, his fingers red with his own blood. His eyes fixed in death, seeming to 
stare at her, as his blood formed a pool at her feet. Laurana stared at the 
blood in horrid fascination, then she heard a sound in front of her. Shaking, 
she looked up-directly into the hideous, reptilian face of the man's killer.
The draconian, seeing an apparently terror-stricken elven female before him, 
figured on an easy kill. Licking its blood-stained sword with its long tongue, 
the creature jumped over the body of his victim and lunged for Laurana.
Clutching her sword, her throat aching with terror, Laurana reacted out of sheer 
defensive instinct. She stabbed blindly, jabbing upward. The draconian was 
caught totally offguard. Laurana plunged her weapon into the draconian's body, 
feeling the sharp elven blade penetrate both armor and flesh, hearing bone 
splinter and the creature's last gurgling scream. It turned to stone, yanking 
the sword from her hand. But Laurana, thinking with a cold detachment that 
amazed her, knew from hearing the warriors talk that if she waited a moment, the 
stone body would turn to dust, releasing her weapon.
The sounds of battle raged around her, the screams, the death cries, the thuds 
and groans, the clash of steel-but she heard none of it.
She waited calmly until she saw the body crumble. Then she reached down and, 
sifting the dust aside with her hand, she grasped the hilt of her sword and 
lifted it into the air. Sunlight flashed on the blood-stained blade, her enemy 
lay dead at her feet. She looked around but could not see Tanis. She could not 
see any of the others. For all she knew, they might be dead. For all she knew, 
she might herself be dead within the next moment.
Laurana lifted her eyes to the sun-drenched blue sky. The world she might soon 
be leaving seemed newly made-every object, every stone, every leaf stood out in 
painful clarity. A warm fragrant southern breeze sprang up, driving back the 
storm clouds that hung over her homeland to the north. Laurana's spirit, 
released from its prison of fear, soared higher than the clouds, and her sword 
flashed in the morning sun.
 
 
15
The Dragon Highlord.
Matafleur's children.
 
Verminaard studied the four men as they approached him. These were not slaves, 
he realized. Then he recognized them as the ones who traveled with the 
golden-haired cleric. These, then, were the ones who had defeated Onyx in Xak 
Tsaroth, escaped the slave caravan, and broken into Pax Tharkas. He felt as if 
he knew them-the knight from that broken land of past glories; a half-elf trying 
to pass himself off as human; a deformed, sickly magician; and the mage's twin-a 
human giant whose brain was probably as thick as his arms.
It will be an interesting fight, he thought. He almost welcomed hand-to-hand 
combat-it had been a long time. He was growing bored with commanding armies from 
the back of a dragon. Thinking of Ember, he glanced into the sky, wondering if 
he might be able to summon aid.
But it appeared that the red dragon was having his own problems. Matafleur had 
been fighting battles when Pyros was still in the egg; what she lacked in 
strength, she made up for in guile and cunning. The air crackled with flames, 
dragonblood dropped down like red rain.
Shrugging, Verminaard looked back at the four approaching him warily. He could 
hear the magic-user reminding his companions that Verminaard was a cleric of the 
Queen of Darkness and-as such-could call upon her aid. Verminaard knew from his 
spies that this magic-user, though young, was imbued with a strange power and 
considered very dangerous.
The four did not speak. There was no need for talk among these men, nor was 
there need for talk between enemies. Respect, grudging as it may be, was 
apparent on both sides. As for the battlerage, that was unnecessary. This would 
be fought coolly. The major victor would be death.
And so the four came forward, spreading to outflank him since he had nothing to 
set his back against. Crouching low, Verminaard swung Nightbringer in an arc, 
keeping them back, forming his plans. He must even the odds quickly. Gripping 
Nightbringer in his right hand, the evil cleric sprang forward from his crouched 
stance with all the strength in his powerful legs. His sudden move took his 
opponents by surprise. He did not raise his mace. All he needed now was his 
deadly touch. Landing on his feet in front of Raistlin, he reached out and 
grasped the magic-user by the shoulder, whispering a swift prayer to his Dark 
Queen.
Raistlin screamed. His body pierced by unseen, unholy weapons, he sank to the 
ground in agony. Caramon gave a great, bellowing roar and sprang at Verminaard, 
but the cleric was prepared. He swung the mace, Nightbringer, and struck the 
warrior a glancing blow. "Midnight," Verminaard whispered, and Caramon's bellow 
changed to a shout of panic as the spellbound mace blinded him.
"I can't see! Tanis, help me!" the big warrior cried, stumbling about. 
Verminaard, laughing grimly, struck him a solid blow to the head. Caramon went 
down like a felled ox.
Out of the corner of his eye, Verminaard saw the half-elf leap for him, a 
two-handed sword of ancient elvish design in his hands. Verminaard whirled, 
blocking Tanis's sword with Nightbringer's massive, oaken handle. For a moment, 
the two combatants were locked together, but Verminaard's greater strength won 
out and he hurled Tanis to the ground.
The Solamnic knight raised his sword in salute-a costly mistake. It gave 
Verminaard time to remove a small iron needle from a hidden pocket. Raising it, 
he called once more upon the
Queen of Darkness to defend her cleric. Sturm, striding forward, suddenly felt 
his body grow heavier and heavier until he could walk no more.
Tanis, lying on the ground, felt an unseen hand press down on him. He couldn't 
move. He couldn't turn his head. His tongue was too thick to speak. He could 
hear Raistlin's screams choke off in pain. He could hear Verminaard laugh and 
shout a hymn of praise to the Dark Queen. Tanis could only watch in despair as 
the Dragon Highlord, mace raised, walked toward Sturm, preparing to end the 
knight's life.
"Baravais, Kbaras!' Verminaard said in Solamnic. He lifted the mace in a 
gruesome mockery of the knight's salute, then aimed for the knight's head, 
knowing that this death would be the most torturous possible for a knight-dying 
at the mercy of the enemy.
Suddenly a hand caught Verminaard's wrist. In astonishment, he stared at the 
hand, the hand of a female. He felt a power to match his own, a holiness to 
match his unholiness. At her touch, Verminaard's concentration wavered, his 
prayers to his Dark Queen faltered.
And then it was that the Dark Queen herself looked up to find a radiant god, 
dressed in white and shining armor, appear on the horizon of her plans. She was 
not ready to fight this god, she had not expected his return, and so she fled to 
rethink her options and restructure her battle, seeing-for the first time- the 
possibility of defeat. The Queen of Darkness withdrew and left her cleric to his 
fate.
Sturm felt the spell leave his body, his muscles his own to command once more. 
He saw Venninaard turn his fury on Goldmoon, striking at her savagely. The 
knight lunged forward, seeing Tanis rise, the elven sword flashing in the 
sun-light.
Both men ran toward Goldmoon, but Riverwind was there before them. Thrusting her 
out of the way, the Plainsman received on his swordarm the blow of the cleric's 
mace that had been intended to crush Goldmoon's head. Riverwind heard the cleric 
shout "Midnight!" and his vision was obscured by the same unholy darkness that 
had overtaken Caramon.
But the Que-shu warrior, expecting this, did not panic. Riverwind could still 
hear his enemy. Resolutely ignoring the pain of his injury, he transferred the 
sword to his left hand and stabbed in the direction of his enemy's harsh 
breathing. The blade, turned aside by the Dragon Highlord's powerful armor, was 
jarred from Riverwind's hand. Riverwind fumbled for his dagger, though he knew 
it was hopeless, that death was certain.
At that moment, Verminaard realized he was alone, bereft of spiritual help. He 
felt the cold, skeletal hand of despair clutch at him and he called to his Dark 
Queen. But she had turned away, absorbed in her own struggle.
Verminaard began to sweat beneath the dragonmask. He cursed it as the helm 
seemed to stifle him; he couldn't catch his breath. Too late he realized its 
unsuitableness for hand-to-hand combat-the mask blocked his peripheral vision. 
He saw the tall Plainsman, blind and wounded, before him-he could kill him at 
his leisure. But there were two other fighters near. The knight and the half-elf 
had been freed of the unholy spell he had cast on them and they were coming 
closer. He could hear them.
Catching a glimpse of movement, he turned quickly and saw the half-elf running 
toward him, the elvish blade glistening. But where was the knight? Verminaard 
turned and backed up, swinging his mace to keep them at bay, while with his free 
hand, he struggled to rip the dragonhelm from his head.
Too late. Just as Verminaard's hand closed over the visor, the magic blade of 
Kith-Kanan pierced his armor and slid into his back. The Dragon Highlord 
screamed and whirled in rage, only to see the Solamnic knight appear in his 
blood-dimmed vision. The ancient blade of Sturm's fathers plunged into his 
bowels. Verminaard feel to his knees. Still he struggled to remove the helm-he 
couldn't breathe, he couldn't see. He felt another sword thrust, then darkness 
overtook him.
High overhead, a dying Matafleur- weakened by loss of blood and many 
wounds-heard the voices of her children crying to her. She was confused and 
disoriented: Pyros seemed to be attacking from every direction at once. Then the 
big red dragon was before her, against the wall of the mountain. Matafleur saw 
her chance. She would save her children.
Pyros breathed a great blast of flame directly into the face of the ancient red 
dragon. He watched in satisfaction as the head withered, the eyes melted.
But Matafleur ignored the flames that seared her eyes, forever ending her 
vision, and flew straight at Pyros.
The big male dragon, his mind clouded by fury and pain and thinking he had 
finished his enemy, was taken by surprise. Even as he breathed again his deadly 
fire, he realized with horror the position he was in-he had allowed Matafleur to 
manuever him between herself and the sheer face of the mountain. He had nowhere 
to go, no room to turn.
Matafleur soared into him with all the force of her once-powerful body, striking 
him like a spear hurled by the gods.
Both dragons slammed against the mountain. The peak trembled and split apart as 
the face of the mountain exploded in flames.
In later years when the Death of Flamestrike was legend, there were those who 
claimed to have heard a dragon's voice fade away like smoke on an autumn wind, 
whispering:
"My children ..."
 
 
The Wedding
 
The last day of autumn dawned clear and bright. The air was warm-touched by the 
fragrant wind from the south, which had blown steadily ever since the refugees 
fled Pax Tharkas, taking with them only what they could scrounge from the 
fortress as they fled the wrath of the dragonarmies.
It had taken long days for the draconian army to scale the walls of Pax Tharkas, 
its gates blocked by boulders, its towers defended by gully dwarves. Led by 
Sestun, the gully dwarves stood on top of the walls throwing rocks, dead rats, 
and occasionally each other down on the frustrated draconians. This allowed the 
refugees time to escape into the mountains where, although they skirmished with 
small forces of draconians, they were not seriously threatened.
Flint volunteered to lead a party of men through the mountains, searching for a 
place where the people could spend the winter. These mountains were familiar to 
Flint since the hill dwarves' homeland was not far to the south. Flint's party 
discovered a valley nestled between vast, craggy peaks whose treacherous passes 
were choked with snow in the winter. The passes could be easily held against the 
might of the dragonarmies and there were caves where they could hide from the 
fury of the dragons.
Following a dangerous path, the refugees fled into the mountains and entered the 
valley. An avalanche soon blocked the route behind them and destroyed all trace 
of their passing. It would be months before the draconians discovered them.
The valley, far below the mountain peaks, was warm and sheltered from the harsh 
winter winds and snows. The woods were filled with game. Clear streams flowed 
from the mountains. The people mourned their dead, rejoiced in their 
deliverance, built shelters, and celebrated a wedding.
On the last day of autumn, as the sun set behind the mountains, kindling their 
snow-capped peaks with flame the color of dying dragons, Riverwind and Goldmoon 
were married.
When the two came to Elistan to ask him to preside over their exchange of vows, 
he had been deeply honored and had asked them to explain the ways of their 
people to him. Both of them replied steadily that their people were dead. The 
Que-shu were gone, their ways were no more.
"This will be our ceremony," Riverwind said. "The beginning of something new, 
not the continuation of that which has passed away."
"Though we will honor the memory of our people in our hearts," Goldmoon added 
softly, "we must look forward, not behind. We will honor the past by taking from 
it the good and the sorrowful that have made us what we are. But the past shall 
rule us no longer."
Elistan, therefore, studied the Disks of Mishakal to find what the ancient gods 
taught about marriage. He asked Goldmoon and Riverwind to write their own vows, 
searching their hearts for the true meaning of their love-for these vows would 
be spoken before the gods and last beyond death.
One custom of the Que-shu the couple kept. This was that the bridegift and the 
groomgift could not be purchased. This symbol of love must be made by the hand 
of the beloved. The gifts would be exchanged with the saying of the vows.
As the sun's rays spread across the sky, Elistan took his place on the top of a 
gentle rise. The people gathered in silence at the foot of the hill. From the 
east came Tika and Laurana, bearing torches. Behind them walked Goldmoon, 
Chieftain's Daughter. Her hair fell down around her shoulders in streams of 
molten gold, mingled with silver. Her head was crowned with autumn leaves. She 
wore the simple fringed doeskin tunic she had worn through their adventures. The 
medallion of Mishakal glittered at her throat. She carried her bridegift wrapped 
in a cloth as fine as cobweb, for the beloved one's eyes must be the first to 
see it.
Tika walked before her in solemn, misty-eyed wonder, the young girl's heart 
filled with dreams of her own, beginning to think that this great mystery shared 
by men and women might not be the terrifying experience she had feared, but 
something sweet and beautiful.
Laurana, next to Tika, held her torch high, brightening the day's dying light. 
The people murmured at Goldmoon's beauty; they fell silent when Laurana passed. 
Goldmoon was human, her beauty the beauty of the trees and mountains and skies. 
Laurana's beauty was elvish, otherworldly, mysterious.
The two women brought the bride to Elistan, then they turned, looking to the 
west, waiting for the groom.
A blaze of torches lit Riverwind's way. Tanis and Sturm, their solemn faces 
wistful and gentle, led. Riverwind came behind, towering over the others, his 
face stern as always. But a radiant joy, brighter than the torches, lit his 
eyes. His black hair was crowned with autumn leaves, his groomgift covered by 
one of Tasslehoff's hankerchiefs. Behind him walked Flint and the kender. 
Caramon and Raistlin came last, the mage bearing the lighted-crystal Staff of 
Magius instead of a torch.
The men brought the groom to Elistan, then stepped back to join the women. Tika 
found herself standing next to Caramon. Reaching out timidly, she touched his 
hand. Smiling down at her gently, he clasped her little hand in his big one.
As Elistan looked at Riverwind and Goldmoon, he thought of the terrible grief 
and fear and danger they had faced, the harshness of their lives. Did their 
future hold anything different? For a moment he was overcome and could not 
speak. The two, seeing Elistan's emotion and, perhaps, understanding his sorrow, 
reached out to him reassuringly. Elistan drew them close to him, whispering 
words for them alone.
"It was your love and your faith in each other that brought hope to the world. 
Each of you was willing to sacrifice your life for this promise of hope, each 
has saved the life of the other. The sun shines now, but already its rays are 
dimming and night is ahead. It is the same for you, my friends. You will walk 
through much darkness before morning. But your love will be as a torch to light 
the way."
Elistan then stepped back and began to speak to all assembled. His voice, husky 
to begin with, grew stronger and stronger as he felt the peace of the gods 
surround him and confirm their blessings on this couple.
"The left hand is the hand of the heart," he said, placing Goldmoon's left hand 
in Riverwind's left hand and holding his own left hand over them. "We join left 
hands that the love in the hearts of this man and this woman may combine to form 
something greater as two streams join together to form a mighty river. The river 
flows through the land, branching off into tributaries, exploring new ways, yet 
ever drawn to the eternal sea. Receive their love, Paladine-greatest of the 
gods; bless it and grant them peace at least in the hearts, if there is no peace 
in this shattered land."
In the blessed silence, husbands and wives put their arms around each other. 
Friends drew close, children quieted and crept near their parents. Hearts filled 
with mourning were comforted. Peace was granted.
"Pledge your vows, one to another," Elistan said, "and exchange the gifts of 
your hands and hearts."
Goldmoon looked into Riverwind's eyes and began to speak softly.
 
Wars have settled on the North
and dragons ride the skies,
"Now is the time for wisdom,"
say the wise and the nearly wise.
"Here in the heart of battle,
the time to be brave is at hand.
Now most things are larger than
the promise of woman to man."
But you and I, through burning plains,
through darkness of the earth,
affirm this world, its people,
the heavens that gave them birth,
the breath that passes between us,
this altar where we stand,
and all those things made larger by
the promise of woman to man.
Then Riverwind spoke:
Now in the belly of winter,
when ground and sky are gray,
here in the heart of sleeping snow,
now is the time to say
yes to the sprouting vallenwood
in the green countryside,
for these things are far larger than
a man's word to his bride.
Through these promises we keep,
forged in the yawning night,
proved in the presence of heroes
and the prospect of spring light,
the children will see moons and stars
where now the dragons ride,
and humble things made large by
a man's word to his bride.
 
When the vows were spoken, they exchanged gifts. Goldmoon shyly handed her 
present to Riverwind. He unwrapped it with hands that trembled. It was a ring 
plaited of her own hair, bound with bands of silver and of gold as fine as the 
hair the surrounded. Goldmoon had given Flint her mother's jewelry; the dwarf's 
old hands had not lost their touch.
In the wreckage of Solace, Riverwind had found a vallenwood branch spared by the 
dragon's fire and had carried it in his pack. Now that branch made Riverwind's 
gift to Goldmoon-a ring, perfectly smooth and plain. When polished, the wood of 
the tree was a rich gold color, marked by streaks and whorls of softest brown. 
Goldmoon, holding it, remembered the first night she had seen the great 
vallenwoods, the night they had stumbled-weary and frightened-into Solace, 
bearing the blue crystal staff. She began to cry softly and wiped her eyes with 
Tas's handkerchief.
"Bless the gifts, Paladine," Elistan said, "these symbols of love and sacrifice. 
Grant that during times of deepest darkness, these two may look upon these gifts 
and see their path lighted by love. Great and shining god, god of human and elf, 
god of kender and dwarf, give your blessing to these, your children. May the 
love they plant in their hearts today be nourished by their souls and grow into 
a tree of life, providing shelter and protection to all who seek refuge beneath 
its spreading boughs. With the joining of hands, the exchanging of vows, the 
giving of gifts, you two-Riverwind, grandson of Wanderer, and Goldmoon, 
Chieftain's Daughter-become one-in your hearts, in the sight of men, in the eyes 
of the gods."
Riverwind took his ring from Goldmoon and placed it upon her slender finger. 
Goldmoon took her ring from Riverwind. He knelt before her-as would have been 
the custom of the Que-shu. But Goldmoon shook her head.
"Rise, warrior," she said, smiling through her tears.
"Is that a command?" he asked softly.
"It is the last command of Chieftain's Daughter," she whispered.
Riverwind stood up. Goldmoon placed the golden ring on his finger. Then 
Riverwind took her in his arms. She put her arms around him. Their lips met, 
their bodies melded together, their spirits joined. The people gave a great 
shout and torches flared. The sun sank behind the mountains, leaving the sky 
bathed in a pearl-like hue of purples and soft reds, which soon deepened into 
the sapphire of night.
The bride and groom were carried down the hill by the cheering throng and 
feasting and merriment began. Huge tables, carved from the pine trees of the 
forest, were set up on the grass. The children, freed at last from the awe of 
the ceremony, ran and shouted, playing at dragonslaying. Tonight care and worry 
were far from their minds. Men broached the huge casks of ale and wine they had 
salvaged in Pax Tharkas and began drinking salutes to the bride and groom. Women 
brought in huge plates of food-game and fruits and vegetables gathered in the 
forest and taken from the stores in Pax Tharkas.
"Get out of my way, don't crowd me," Caramon grumbled as he sat down at the 
table. The companions, laughing, moved over to give the big man room. Maritta 
and two other women came forward and placed a huge platter of deer meat before 
the big warrior.
"Real food," sighed the warrior.
"Hey," roared Flint, stabbing at a piece of sizzling meat on Caramon's plate 
with his fork, "you gonna eat that?"
Caramon promptly and silently-without missing a bite- emptied a flagon of ale 
over the dwarf's head.
Tanis and Sturm sat side by side, talking quietly. Tanis's eyes strayed to 
Laurana occasionally. She sat at a different table talking animatedly with 
Elistan. Tanis, thinking how lovely she looked tonight, realized how changed she 
was from the willful, lovesick girl who had followed him from Qualinesti. He 
told himself he liked the change in her. But he caught himself wondering just 
what she and Elistan found so interesting.
Sturm touched his arm. Tanis started. He had lost track of the conversation. 
Flushing, he began to apologize when he saw the look on Sturm's face.
"What is it?" Tanis said in alarm, half-rising.
"Hush, don't move!" Sturm ordered. "Just look-over there-sitting off to 
himself."
Tanis looked where Sturm gestured, puzzled, then he saw the man-sitting alone, 
hunched over his food, eating it absently as if he didn't really taste it. 
Whenever anyone approached, the man shrank back, eyeing him nervously until he 
passed. Suddenly, perhaps sensing Tanis's eyes on him, he raised his head and 
stared directly at them. The half-elf gasped and dropped his fork.
"But that's impossible!" he said in a strangled voice. "We saw him die! With 
Eben! No one could have survived-"
"Then I was right," Sturm said grimly. "You recognize him, too. I thought I was 
going mad. Let's go talk to him."
But when they looked again, he was gone. Swiftly, they searched the crowd, but 
it was impossible to find him now.
As the silver moon and the red rose in the sky, the married couples formed a 
ring around the bride and groom and began singing wedding songs. Unmarried 
couples danced in pairs outside the circle while the children leaped and shouted 
and reveled in staying up past their bedtime. Bonfires burned brightly, voices 
and music filled the night air, the silver moon and the red rose to light the 
sky. Goldmoon and Riverwind stood, their arms around each other, their eyes 
shining brighter than the moons or the blazing fire.
Tanis lingered on the outskirts, watching his friends. Laurana and Gilthanas 
performed an ancient elvish dance of grace and beauty, singing together a hymn 
of joy. Sturm and Elistan fell into conversation about their plans to travel 
south in search of the legendary seaport city of Tarsis the Beautiful, where 
they hoped to find ships to carry the people from this wartorn land. Tika, tired 
of watching Caramon eat, teased Flint until the dwarf finally agreed to dance 
with her, blushing bright red beneath his beard.
Where was Raistlin? Tanis wondered. The half-elf recalled seeing him at the 
banquet. The mage ate little and drank his herbal mixture. He had seemed 
unusually pale and quiet. Tanis decided to go in search of him. The company of 
the dark-souled, cynical mage seemed more suited to him tonight than
music and laughter.
Tanis wandered into the moonlit darkness, knowing somehow he was headed in the 
right direction. He found Raistlin sitting on the stump of an old tree whose 
lightning-shattered, blackened remains lay scattered over the ground. The 
half-elf sat down next to the silent mage.
A small shadow settled among the trees behind the half-elf. Finally, Tas would 
hear what these two discussed!
Raistlin's strange eyes stared into the southlands, barely visible between a gap 
in the tall mountains. The wind still blew from the south, but it was beginning 
to veer again. The temperature was falling. Tanis felt Raistlin's frail body 
shiver. Looking at him in the moonlight, Tanis was startled to see the mage's 
resemblance to his half-sister, Kitiara. It was a fleeting impression and gone 
almost as soon as it came, but it brought the woman to Tanis's mind, adding to 
his feelings of unrest and disquiet. He restlessly tossed a piece of bark back 
and forth, from hand to hand.
"What do you see to the south?" Tanis asked abruptly.
Raistlin glanced at him. "What do I ever see with these eyes of mine, Half-Elf?" 
the mage whispered bitterly. "I see death, death and destruction. I see war." He 
gestured up above. "The constellations have not returned. The Queen of Darkness 
is not defeated."
"We may not have won the war," Tanis began, "but surely we have won a major 
battle-"
Raistlin coughed and shook his head sadly.
"Do you see no hope?"
"Hope is the denial of reality. It is the carrot dangled before the draft horse 
to keep him plodding along in a vain attempt to reach it."
"Are you saying we should just give up?" Tanis asked, irritably tossing the bark 
away.
"I'm saying we should remove the carrot and walk forward with our eyes open," 
Raistlin answered. Coughing, he drew his robes more closely around him. "How 
will you fight the dragons, Tanis? For there will be more! More than you can 
imagine! And where now is Huma? Where now is the Dragonlance? No, Half-Elf. Do 
not talk to me of hope."
Tanis did not answer, nor did the mage speak again. Both sat silently, one 
continuing to stare south, the other glancing up into the great voids in the 
glittering, starlit sky.
Tasslehoff sank back into the soft grass beneath the pine trees. "No hope!" the 
kender repeated bleakly, sorry he had followed the half-elf. "I don't believe 
it," he said, but his eyes went to Tanis, staring at the stars. Tanis believes 
it, the kender realized, and the thought filled him with dread.
Ever since the death of the old magician, an unnoticed change had come over the 
kender. Tasslehoff began to consider that this adventure was in earnest, that it 
had a purpose for which people gave their lives. He wondered why he was involved 
and thought perhaps he had given the answer to Fizban-the small things he was 
meant to do were important, somehow, in the big scheme of things.
But until now it had never occurred to the kender that all this might be for 
nothing, that it might not make any difference, that they might suffer and lose 
people they loved like Fizban, and the dragons would still win in the end.
"Still," the kender said softly, "we have to keep trying and hoping. That's 
what's important-the trying and the hoping. Maybe that's most important of all."
Something floated gently down from the sky, brushing past the kender's nose. Tas 
reached out and caught it in his hand.
It was a small, white chicken feather.
The "Song of Huma" was the last-and many consider the greatest-work of the elven 
bard, Quivalen Soth. Only fragments of the work remained following the 
Cataclysm. It is said that those who study it diligently willl find hints to the 
future o the turning world.
 
SONG OF HUMA
Out of the village, out of the thatched and clutching shires,
Out of the grave and furrow, furrow and grave,
Where his sword first tried
The last cruel dances of childhood, and awoke to the shires
Forever retreating, his greatness a marshfire,
The banked flight of the Kingfisher always above him,
Now Huma walked upon Roses,
In the level Light of the Rose.
And troubled by Dragons, he turned to the end of the land,
To the fringe of all sense and senses,
To the Wilderness, where Paladine bade him to turn,
And there in the loud tunnel of knives
He grew in unblemished violence, in yearning,
Stunned into himself by a deafening gauntlet of voices.
It was there and then that the White Stag found him,
At the end of a journey planned from the shores of Creation,
And all time staggered at the forest edge
Where Huma, haunted and starving,
Drew his bow, thanking the gods for their bounty and keeping,
Then saw, in the ranged wood,
In the first silence, the dazed heart's symbol,
The rack of antlers resplendent.
He lowered the bow and the world resumed.
Then Huma followed the Stag, its tangle of antlers receding
As a memory of young light, as the talons of birds ascending.
The Mountain crouched before them. Nothing would change
now,
The three moons stopped in the sky,
And the long night tumbled in shadows.
It was morning when they reached the grove,
The lap of the mountain, where the Stag departed,
Nor did Huma follow, knowing the end of this journey
Was nothing but green and the promise of green that endured
In the eyes of the woman before him.
And holy the days he drew near her, holy the air
That carried his words of endearment, his forgotten songs,
And the rapt moons knelt on the Great Mountain.
Still, she eluded him, bright and retreating as marshfire,
Nameless and lovely, more lovely because she was nameless,
As they learned that the world, the dazzling shelves of the air,
The Wilderness itself
Were plain and diminished things to the heart's thicket.
At the end of the days, she told him her secret.
For she was not of woman, nor was she mortal,
But daughter and heiress from a line of Dragons.
For Huma the sky turned indifferent, cluttered by moons,
The brief life of the grass mocked him, mocked his fathers,
And the thorned light bristled on the gliding Mountain.
But nameless she tendered a hope not in her keeping,
That Paladine only might answer, that through his enduring
wisdom
She might step from forever, and there in her silver arms
The promise of the grove might rise and flourish.
For that wisdom Huma prayed, and the Stag returned,
And east, through the desolate fields, through ash,
Through cinders and blood, the harvest of dragons,
Traveled Huma, cradled by dreams of the Silver Dragon,
The Stag perpetual, a signal before him.
At last the eventual harbor, a temple so far to the east
That it lay where the east was ending.
There Paladine appeared
In a pool of stars and glory, announcing
That of all choices, one most terrible had fallen to Huma.
For Paladine knew that the heart is a nest of yearnings,
That we can travel forever toward light, becoming
What we can never be.
For the bride of Huma could step into the devouring sun,
Together they would return to the thatched shires
And leave behind the secret of the Lance, the world
Unpeopled in darkness, wed to the dragons.
Or Huma could take on the Dragonlance, cleansing all Krynn
Of death and invasion, of the green paths of his love.
The hardest of choices, and Huma remembered
How the Wilderness cloistered and baptized his first thoughts
Beneath the sheltering sun, and now
As the black moon wheeled and pivoted, drawing the air
And the substance from Krynn, from the things of Krynn,
From the grove, from the Mountain, from the abandoned shires,
He would sleep, he would send it all away,
For the choosing was all of the pain, and the choices
Were heat on the hand when the arm has been severed.
But she came to him, weeping and luminous,
In a landscape of dreams, where he saw
The world collapse and renew on the glint of the Lance.
In her farewell lay collapse and renewal.
Through his doomed veins the horizon burst.
He took up the Dragonlance, he took up the story,
The pale heat rushed through his rising arm
And the sun and the three moons, waiting for wonders,
Hung in the sky together.
To the West Huma rode, to the High Clerist's Tower
On the back of the Silver Dragon,
And the path of their flight crossed over a desolate country
Where the dead walked only, mouthing the names of dragons.
And the men in the Tower, surrounded and riddled by dragons,
By the cries of the dying, the roar in the ravenous air,
Awaited the unspeakable silence,
Awaited far worse, in fear that the crash of the senses
Would end in a moment of nothing
Where the mind lies down with its losses and darkness.
But the winding of Huma's horn in the distance
Danced on the battlements. All of Solamnia lifted
Its face to the eastern sky, and the dragons
Wheeled to the highest air, believing
Some terrible change had come.
From out of their tumult of wings, out of the chaos of dragons,
Out of the heart of nothing, the Mother of Night,
Aswirl in a blankness of colors,
Swooped to the East, into the stare of the sun
And the sky collapsed into silver and blankness.
On the ground Huma lay, at his side a woman,
Her silver skin broken, the promise of green
Released from the gifts of her eyes. She whispered her name
As the Queen of Darkness banked in the sky above Huma.
She descended, the Mother of Night,
And from the loft of the battlements, men saw shadows
Boil on the colorless dive of her wings:
A hovel of thatch and rushes, the heart of a Wilderness,
A lost silver light spattered in terrible crimson,
And then from the center of shadows
Came a depth in which darkness itself was aglimmer,
Denying all air, all light, all shadows.
And thrusting his lance into emptiness,
Huma fell to the sweetness of death, into abiding sunlight.
Through the Lance, through the dear might and brotherhood
Of those who must walk to the end of the breath and the senses,
He banished the dragons back to the core of nothing,
And the long lands blossomed in balance and music.
Stunned in new freedom, stunned by the brightness and colors,
By the harped blessing of the holy winds,
The Knights carried Huma, they carried the Dragonlance
To the grove in the lap of the Mountain.
When they returned to the grove in pilgrimage, in homage,
The Lance, the armor, the Dragonbane himself
Had vanished to the days eye.
But the night of the full moons red and silver
Shines down on the hills, on the forms of a man and a woman
Shimmering steel and silver, silver and steel,
Above the village, over the thatched and nurturing shires.
 
 
 
 
V1.0
Scanned by TokyoDawn 21st June 2001
A bloody OCR Nightmare....print quality was terrible, so lots of ocr mistakes.
I was going to abandon it but I bought this book just to scan so I carried on.
Please feel free to correct and update..I've had enough of the damn thing! :)

v2.0
Proofed by ... 12st February 2002
A bloody proofing nightmare. there are still lots of things to correct and a
few pages missing, but at least the text is more readable now.


To my parents, Dr. and Mrs. Harold R. Hickman, who taught me what true honor
is - Tracy Raye Hickman

To my parents, Frances and George Weis, who gave me a gift more precious than
life: the love of books - Margaret Weis

Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London W8 5RZ (Publishing and Editorial)
and Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England (Distribution and Warehouse) Viking
Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York room, USA Penguin Books
Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801
John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 1B4 Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, 18z-n9o
Wairau Road, Auckland 10 New Zealand

First published by TSR, Inc. 1985 Distributed to the book trade in the USA by
Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada Ltd Distributed in
the UK by TSR UK Ltd Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional
distributors Published in Penguin Books 1986 Reprinted 1986 (twice), 1987
(three times)

Copyright (c) TSR, Inc., 1985 All rights reserved

DRAGONLANCE is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. All DRAGONLANCE characters and
the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks of TSR, Inc.

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS are registered trademarks
owned by TSR, Inc.

All characters in this book are fictitious. Any resemblance to actual persons,
living or dead, is purely coincidental

We gratefully acknowledge the help of the authors of the ADVANCED DUNGEONS AND
DRAGONS(r) DRAGONLANCE role-playing adventure game modules: Douglas Niles,
DRAGONS OF ICE; Jeff Grubb, DRAGONS OF LIGHT; and Laura Hickman, co-author,
DRAGONS OF WAR. Finally, to Michael: Est Sularus oth Mithas

Printed and bound in Great Britain by Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading

Except in the United States of America, this book is sold subject to the
condition that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise, be lent, re-sold,
hired out, or otherwise circulated without the publisher's prior consent in
any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published and
without a similar condition including this condition being imposed on the
subsequent purchaser.
The winter winds raged outside, but within the caverns of the mountain dwarves
beneath the Kharolis Mountains, the fury of the storm was not felt. As the
Thane called for silence among the assembled dwarves and humans, a dwarven
bard stepped forward to do homage to the companions.

SONG OF THE NINE HEROES

From the north came danger, as we knew it would:
In the vanguard of winter, a dragon's dance
Unraveled the land, until out of the forest,
Out of the plains they came, from the mothering earth,
The sky unreckoned before them.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

One from a garden of stone arising,
From dwarf-halls, from weather and wisdom,
Where the heart and mind tide unquestioned
In the untapped vein of the hand.
In his fathering arms, the spirit gathered.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined,they arose
Into the heart of the story.

One from a haven of breezes descending,
Light in the handling air
To the waving meadows, the kender's country,
Where the grain out of smallness arises itself
To grow green and golden and green again.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

The next from the plains, the long land's keeping,
Nurtured in distance, horizons of nothing.
Bearing a staff she came, and a burden
Of mercy and light converged in her hand:
Beating the wounds of the world, she came.

Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

The next from the plains, in the moon's shadow,
Through custom, through ritual, trailing the moon
Where her phases, her wax and her wane, controlled
The tide of his blood, and his warrior's hand
Ascended through hierarchies of space into light.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

One within absences, known by departures,
The dark swordswoman at the heart of fire:
Her glories the space between words,
The cradlesong recollected in age,
Recalled at the edge of awakening and thought.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

One in the heart of honor, formed by the sword,
By the centuries' flight of the kingfisher over the land,
By Solamnia ruined and risen, rising again
When the heart ascends into duty.
As it dances, the sword is forever an heirloom.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

The next in a simple light a brother to darkness,
Letting the sword hand try all subtleties,
Even the intricate webs of the heart. His thoughts
Are pools disrupted in changing wind
He cannot see their bottom.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

The next the leader, half-elven, betrayed
As the twining blood pulls asunder the land,
The forests, the worlds of elves and men.
Called into bravery, but fearing for love,
And fearing that, called into both, he does nothing.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

The last from the darkness, breathing the night
Where the abstract stars hide a nest of words,
Where the body endures the wound of numbers,
Surrendered to knowledge, until, unable to bless,
His blessing falls on the low, the benighted.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.

Joined by others they were in the telling:
A graceless girl, graced beyond graces;
A princess of seeds and saplings, called to the forest;
An ancient weaver of accidents;
Nor can we say who the story will gather.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the hear of the story.

From the north came danger, as we knew it would:
In encampments of winter, the dragon's sleep
Has settled the land, but out of the forest,
Out of the plain they come, from the mothering earth,
Defining the sky before them.
Nine they were, under the three moons,
Under the autumn twilight:
As the world declined, they arose
Into the heart of the story.



The Hammer

"The Hammer of Kharas!"
The great Hall of Audience of the King of the Mountain Dwarves echoed with the
triumphal announcement. It was followed by wild cheering, the deep booming
voices of the dwarves mingling with the slightly higher-pitched shouts of the
humans as the huge doors at the rear of the Hall were thrown open and Elistan,
cleric of Paladine, entered.

Although the bowl-shaped Hall was large, even by dwarven standards, it was
crammed to capacity. Nearly all of the eight hundred refugees from Pax Tharkas
lined the walls, while the dwarves packed onto the carved stone benches below.

Elistan appeared at the foot of a long central aisle, the giant war hammer
held reverently in his hands. The shouts increased at the sight of the cleric
of Paladine in his white robes, the sound booming against the great vault of
the ceiling and reverberating through the hall until it seemed that the ground
shook with the vibrations.

Tanis winced as the noise made his head throb. He was stifled in the crowd. He
didn't like being underground anyway and, although the ceiling was so high
that the top soared beyond the blazing torchlight and disappeared into shadow,
the half-elf felt enclosed, trapped.

"I'll be glad when this is over;" he muttered to Sturm, standing next to him.

Sturm, always melancholy, seemed even darker and more brooding than usual. "I
don't approve of this, Tanis," he muttered, folding his arms across the bright
metal of his antique breastplate.

"I know;" said Tanis irritably. "You've said it, not once, but several times.
It's too late now. There's nothing to be done but make the best of it."

The end of his sentence was lost in another resounding cheer as Elistan raised
the Hammer above his head, showing it to the crowd before beginning the walk
down the aisle. Tanis put his hand on his forehead. He was growing dizzy as
the cool underground cavern heated up from the mass of bodies.

Elistan started to walk down the aisle. Rising to greet him on a dais in the
center of the Hall was Hornfel, Thane of the Hylar dwarves. Spaced behind the
dwarf were seven carved stone thrones, all of them now empty. Hornfel stood
before the seventh throne, the most magnificent, the throne for the King of
Thorbardin. Lang empty, it would be occupied once more, as Hornfel accepted
the Hammer of Kharas. The return of this ancient relic was a singular triumph
for Hornfel. Since his thanedom was now in possession of the coveted Hammer,
he could unite the rival dwarven thanes under his leadership.

" We fought to recover that Hammer," Sturm said slowly, his eyes upon the
gleaming weapon. "The legendary Hammer of Kharas. Used to forge the
dragonlances. Lost for hundreds of years, found again, and lost once more. And
now given to the dwarves" he said in disgust.

"It was given to the dwarves once before," Tanis reminded him wearily, feeling
sweat trickle down his forehead. "Have Flint tell you the tale, if you've
forgotten. At any rate, it is truly theirs now."

Elistan had arrived at the foot of the stone dais where the Thane, dressed in
the heavy robes and massive gold chains dwarves loved, awaited him. Elistan
knelt at the foot of the dais, a politic gesture, for otherwise the tall,
muscular cleric would stand face-to-face with the dwarf, despite the fact that
the dais was a good three feet off the ground. The dwarves cheered mightily at
this. The humans were, Tanis noticed, more subdued, some muttering among
themselves, not liking the sight of their leader abasing himself.

"Accept this gift of our people-" Elistan's words were lost in another cheer
from the dwarves.

"Gift!" Sturm snorted. "Ransom is nearer the mark."

"In return for which," Elistan continued when he could be heard, "we thank the
dwarves for their generous gift of a place to live within their kingdom."

"For the right to be sealed in a tomb..." Sturm muttered.

"And we pledge our support to the dwarves if the war should come upon us!"
Elistan shouted.

Cheering resounded throughout the chamber, increasing as Thane Hornfel bent to
receive the Hammer. The dwarves stamped and whistled, most climbing up on the
stone benches.

Tanis began to feel nauseated. He glanced around. They would never be missed.
Hornfel would speak; so would each of the other six Thanes, not to mention the
members of the Highseekers Council. The half-elf touched Sturm on the arm,
motioning to the knight to follow him. The two walked silently from the Hall,
bending low to get through a narrow archway. Although still underground in the
massive dwarven city, at least they were away from the noise, out in the cool
night air.

"Are you all right?" Sturm asked, noticing Tanis's pallor beneath his beard.
The half-elf gulped draughts of cool air.

"I am now," Tanis said, flushing in shame at his weakness. "It was the heat...
and the noise:"

"Well, we'll be out of here soon," Sturm said. "depending, of course, on
whether or not the Council of Highseekers votes to let us go to Tarsis."

"Oh, there's no doubt how they'll vote," Tanis said, shrugging. "Elistan is
clearly in control, now that he's led the people to a place of safety. None of
the Highseekers dares oppose him-at least to his face. No, my friend, within a
month's time perhaps, we'll be setting sail in one of the white-winged ships
of Tarsis the Beautiful."

"Without the Hammer of Kharas," Sturm added bitterly. Softly, he began to
quote. " 'And so if was told that the Knights took the golden Hammer, the
Hammer blessed by the great god Paladine and given to the One of the Silver
Arm so that he might forge the Dragonlance of Huma, Dragonbane, and gave the
Hammer to the dwarf they called Kharas, or Knight, for his extraordinary valor
and honor in battle. And he kept Kharas for his name. And the Hammer of Kharas
passed into the dwarven kingdom with assurances from the dwarves that it
should be brought forth again at need-"

"It has been brought forth," Tanis said, straggling to contain his rising
anger. He had heard that quotation entirely too many times!

"It has been brought forth and will be left behind!" Sturm bit the words. "We
might have taken it to Solamnia, used it to forge our own dragonlances."

"And you would be another Huma, riding to glory, the Dragonlance in your
hand!" Tanis's control snapped. "Meanwhile you'd let eight hundred people
die-"

"No, I would not have let them die!" Sturm shouted in a towering rage. "The
first clue we have to the dragonlances and you sell it for-"

Both men stopped arguing abruptly, suddenly aware of a shadow creeping from
the darker shadows surrounding them.

"Shirak" whispered a voice, and a bright light flared, gleaming from a crystal
ball clutched in the golden, disembodied claw of a dragon atop a plain, wooden
staff. The light illuminated the red robes of a magic-user.

The young mage walked toward the two, leaning upon has staff, coughing
slightly. The light from his staff shone upon a skeletal face, with glistening
metallic gold skin drawn tightly over fine bones. His eyes gleamed golden.

"Raistlin!" said Tanis, his voice tight. "Is there something you want?"

Raistlin did not seem at all bothered by the angry looks both men cast him,
apparently well accustomed to the fact that few felt comfortable in his
presence or wanted him around.

He stopped before the two. Stretching forth his frail hand, the mage spoke,
"Akular-alan suh Tagolann Jistrathar." and a pale image of a weapon shimmered
into being as Tanis and Sturm watched in astonishment.

It was a footman's lance, nearly twelve feet long. The point was made of pure
silver, barbed and gleaming, the shaft crafted of polished wood. The kip was
steel, designed to be thrust into the ground.

"It's beautiful!" Tanis gasped. "What is it?"

"A dragonlance." Raistlin answered.

Holding the lance in his hand, the mage stepped between the two, who stood
aside to let him pass as if unwilling to be touched by him. Their eyes were on
the lance. Then Raistlin turned and held it out to Sturm.

"There is your dragonlance, knight," Raistlin hissed, "without benefit of the
Hammer or the Silver Arm. Will you ride with it into glory, remembering that,
for Huma, with glory came death?"

Sturm's eyes flashed. He caught his breath in awe as he reached out to take
hold of the dragonlance. To his amazement, his hand passed right through it!
The dragonlance vanished, even as he touched it.
"More of your tricks!" he snarled. Spinning on his heel, he stalked away,
choking in anger.

"If you meant that as a joke, Raistlin," Tanis said quietly, "it wasn't
funny."

"A joke?" the mage whispered. His strange golden eyes followed the knight as
Sturm walked into the thick blackness of the dwarven city beneath the
mountain. "You should know me better, Tanis."

The mage laughed-the weird laughter Tanis had heard only once before. Then,
bowing sardonically to the half-elf, Raistlin disappeared, following the
knight into the shadows.

Book I

White-ringed ships. Hope lies across the Plains of Dust.

Tanis Half-Elven sat in the meeting of the Council of Highseekers and
listened, frowning. Though officially the false religion of the Seekers was
now dead, the group that made up the political leadership of the eight hundred
refugees from Pax Tharkas was still called that.

"It isn't that we're not grateful to the dwarves for allowing us to live
here." stated Hederick expansively, waving his scarred hand. "We are all
grateful, I'm certain. Just as we're grateful to those whose heroism in
recovering the Hammer of Kharas made our move here possible." Hederick bowed
to Tanis, who returned the bow with a brief nod of his head. "But we are not
dwarves!"

This emphatic statement brought murmurs of approval, causing Hederick to warm
to his audience.

"We humans were never meant to live underground!" Loud calls of approval and
some clapping of hands.

"We are farmers. We cannot grow food on the side of a mountain! We want lands
like the ones we were forced to leave behind. And I say that those who forced
us to leave our old homeland should provide us with new!"

"Does he mean the Dragon Highlords?" Sturm whispered sarcastically to Tanis.
"I'm certain they'd be happy to oblige."

"The fools ought to be thankful they're alive!" Tanis muttered. "Look at them,
turning to Elistan-as if it were his doing!"

The cleric of Paladine-and leader of the refugees-rose to his feet to answer
Hederick.

"It is because we need new homes," Elistan said, his strong baritone
resounding through the cavern, "that I propose we send a delegation south, to
the city of Tarsis the Beautiful."

Tanis had heard Elistan's plan before. His mind wandered over the month since
he and his companions had returned from Derkin's Tomb with the sacred Hammer.

The dwarven Thanes, now consolidated under the leadership of Hornfel, were
preparing to battle the evil coming from the north. The dwarves did not
greatly fear this evil. Their mountain kingdom seemed impregnable. And they
had kept the promise they made Tanis in return for the Hammer: the refugees
from Pax Tharkas could settle in Southgate, the southernmost part of the
mountain kingdom of Thorbardin.

Elistan brought the refugees to Thorbardin. They began trying to rebuild their
lives, but the arrangement was not totally satisfactory.

They were safe, to be sure, but the refugees, mostly farmers, were not happy
living underground in the huge dwarven caverns. In the spring they could plant
crops on the mountainside, but the rocky soil would produce only a bare
living. The people wanted to live in the sunshine and fresh air. They did not
want to be dependent on the dwarves.

It was Elistan who recalled the ancient legends of Tarsis the Beautiful and
its gull-winged ships. But that's all they were legends, as Tanis had pointed
out when Elistan first mentioned his idea. No one on this part of Ansalon had
heard anything about the city of Tarsis since the Cataclysm three hundred
years ago. At that time, the dwarves had closed off the mountain kingdom of
Thorbardin, effectively shutting off all communication between the south and
north, since the only way through the Kharolis Mountains was through
Thorbardin.

Tanis listened gloomily as the Council of Highseekers voted unanimously to
approve Elistan's suggestion. They proposed sending a small group of people to
Tarsis with instructions to find what ships came into port, where they were
bound, and how much it would cost to book passage-or even to buy a ship.

"And who's going to lead this group?" Tanis asked himself silently, though he
already knew the answer.

All eyes now turned to him. Before Tanis could speak, Raistlin, who had been
listening to all that was said without comment, walked forward to stand before
the Council. He stared around at them, his strange eyes glittering golden.

"You are fools;" Raistlin said, his whispering voice soft with scorn, "and you
are living in a fool's dream. How often must I repeat myself? How often must I
remind you of the portent of the stars? What do you say to yourselves when you
look into the night sky and see the gaping black holes where the two
constellations are missing?"

The Council members shifted in their seats, several exchanging long-suffering
glances indicative of boredom.

Raistlin noticed this and continued, his voice growing more and more
contemptuous. "Yes, I have heard some of you saying that it is nothing more
than a natural phenomenon-a thing that happens, perhaps, like the falling of
leaves from the trees."

Several Council members muttered among themselves, nodding. Raistlin watched
silently for a moment, his lip curled in derision. Then he spoke once more. "I
repeat, you are fools. The constellation known as the Queen of Darkness is
missing from the sky because the Queen is present here upon Krynn. The Warrior
constellation, which represents the ancient God Paladine, as we are told in
the Disks of Mishakal, has also returned to Krynn to fight her."

Raistlin paused. Elistan, who stood among them, was a prophet of Paladine, and
many here were converts to this new religion. He could sense the growing anger
at what some considered his blasphemy. The idea that gods would become
personally involved in the affairs of men! Shocking! But being considered
blasphemous had never bothered Raistlin.

His voice rose to a high pitch. "Mark well my words! With the Queen of
Darkness have come her 'shrieking hosts' as it says in the 'Canticle'. And the
shrieking hosts are dragons!" Raistlin drew out the last word into a hiss
that, as Flint said, 'shivered the skin'
"We know all this," Hederick snapped in impatience. It was past time for the
Theocrat's nightly glass of mulled wine, and his thirst gave him courage to
speak. He immediately regretted it, however, when Raistlin's hourglass eyes
seemed to pierce the Theocrat like black arrows. "W-what are you driving at?"

"That peace no longer exists anywhere on Krynn," the mage whispered. He waved
a frail hand. "Find ships, travel where you will. Wherever you go, whenever
you look up into the night sky, you will see those gaping black holes.
Wherever you go, there will be dragons!"

Raistlin began to cough. His body twisted with the spasms, and he seemed
likely to fall, but his twin brother, Caramon, ran forward and caught him in
his strong arms.

After Caramon led the mage out of the Council meeting, it seemed as if a dark
cloud had been lifted. The Council members shook themselves and laughed, if
somewhat shakily, and talked of children's tales. To think that war had spread
to all of Krynn was comic. Why, the war was near an end here in Ansalon
already. The Dragon Highlord, Verminaard, had been defeated, his draconian
armies driven back.

The Council members stood and stretched and left the chamber to head for the
alehouse or their homes.

They forgot they had never asked Tanis if he would lead the group to Tarsis.
They simply assumed he would.

Tass, exchanging grim glances with Sturm, left the cavern. It was his night to
stand watch. Even though the dwarves might consider themselves safe in their
mountain fortress, Tanis and Sturm insisted that a watch be kept upon the
walls leading into Southgate. They had come to respect the Dragon Highlords
too much to sleep in peace without it-even underground.

Tanis leaned against the outer wall of Southgate, his face thoughtful and
serious. Before him spread a meadow covered by smooth, powdery snow. The night
was calm and still. Behind him was the great mass of the Kharolis Mountains.
The gate of Southgate was, in fact, a gigantic plug in the side of the
mountains. It was part of the dwarven defenses that had kept the world out for
three hundred years following the Cataclysm and the destructive Dwarven Wars.

Sixty feet wide at the base and almost half again as high, the gate was
operated by a huge mechanism that forced it in and out of the mountain. At
least forty feet thick in its center, the gate was as indestructible as any
known on Krynn, except for the one matching it in the north. Once shut, they
could not be distinguished from the faces of the mountain, such was the
craftsmanship of the ancient dwarven masons.

Yet, since the arrival of the humans at Southgate, torches had been set about
the opening, allowing the men, women, and children access to the outside air-a
human need that seemed an unaccountable weakness to the subterranean dwarves.

As Tanis stood there, staring into the woods beyond the meadow and finding no
peace in their quiet beauty, Sturm, Elistan, and Laurana joined him. The three
had been talking obviously of him-and fell into an uncomfortable silence.

"How solemn you are," Laurana said to Tanis softly, coming near and putting
her hand on his arm. "you believe Raistlin is right, don't you,
Tanthal-Tanis?" Laurana blushed. His human name still came clumsily to her
lips, yet she knew him well enough now to understand that his elven name only
brought him pain.

Tanis looked down at the small, slender hand on his arm and gently put his own
over it. Only a few months earlier the touch would have irritated him, causing
confusion and guilt as he wrestled with the love for a human woman against
what he told himself was a childhood infatuation with this elfmaiden. But now
the touch of Laurana's hand filled him with warmth and peace, even as it
stirred his blood. He pondered these new, disturbing feelings as he responded
to her question.

"I have long found Raistlin's advice sound," he said, knowing how this would
upset them. Sure enough, Sturm's face darkened. Elistan frowned. "And I think
he is right this time. We have won a battle, but we are a long way from
winning the war. We know it is being fought far north, in Solamnia. I think we
may safely assume that it is not for the conquest of Abanasinia alone that the
forces of darkness are fighting."

"But you are only speculating!" Elistan argued. "Do not let the darkness that
hangs around the young wage cloud your thinking. He may be right, but that is
no reason to give up hope, to give up trying! Tarsis is a large seaport
city-at least according to all we know of it. There we'll find those who can
tell us if the war encompasses the world. If so, then surely there still must
be havens where we can find peace."

"Listen to Elistan, Tanis," Laurana said gently. "He is wise. When our people
left Qualinesti, they did not flee blindly. They traveled to a peaceful haven.
My father had a plan, though he dared not reveal it-"

Laurana broke off, startled to- see the effect of her speech. Abruptly Tanis
snatched his arm from her touch and turned his gaze on Elistan, his eyes
filled with anger.

"Raistlin says hope is the denial of reality." Tanis stated coldly. Then,
seeing Elistan's care-worn face regard him with sorrow, the half-elf smiled
wearily. "I apologize, Elistan. I am tired, that's all. Forgive me. Your
suggestion is good. We'll travel to Tarsis with hope, if nothing else."

Elistan nodded and turned to leave. "Are you coming, Laurana? I know you are
tired, my dear, but we have a great deal to do before I can turn the
leadership aver to the Council in my absence."

"I'll be with you presently, Elistan;" Laurana said, flushing. "I-I want to
speak a moment with Tanis.'

Elistan gave them both an appraising, understanding look, then walked through
the darkened gateway with Sturm. Tanis began dousing the torches, preparatory-
to the closing of the gate. Laurana stood near the entrance, her expression
growing cold as it became obvious Tanis was ignoring her.

"What is the matter with you?" she said finally. "It almost sounds as if you
are taking that Clark-sauled mage's part against Elistan, one of the best and
wisest humans I have ever met!"

"Don't judge Raistlin, Laurana," Tanis said harshly, thrusting a torch into a
bucket of water, The light vanished with a hiss.

"Things aren't always black and white, as you elves are inclined to believe.
The mage has saved our lives more than once. I have come to rely upon his
thinking-which, I admit, I find easier to rely on than blind faith!"
"You elves!" Laurana cried. "How typically human that sounds! There is more
elven in you than you care to admit, Tanthalas! You used to say you didn't
wear the beard to hide your heritage, and I believed you. But -now I'm not so
certain. I've lived around humans long enough to know how they feel about
elves! But I'm proud of my heritage. You're not! You're ashamed of it. Why?
Because of that human woman you're in love with! What's her name, Kitiara?"

"Stop it, Laurana!" Tanis shouted. Hurling down a torch to the ground, he
strode to the elven maiden standing in the doorway. "If you want to discuss
relationships, what about you and Elistan? He may be a cleric of Paladine, but
he's a man-a fact to which you can, no doubt, testify! All I hear from you" he
mimicked her voice, " is 'Elistan is so wise', 'Ask Elistan, he'll know what
to do', 'Listen to Elistan, Tanis-' "

"How dare you accuse me of your own failings?" Laurana returned. "I love
Elistan. I reverence him. He is the wisest man I have known, and the gentlest.
He is self-sacrificing-his entire life is wrapped up in serving others. But
there is only one man I love, only one man I have ever loved-though now I am
beginning to ask myself if perhaps I haven't made a mistake! You said, in that
awful place, the Sla-Mori, that I was behaving like a little girl and I had
better grow up. Well, I have grown, Tanis Half-Elven. In these past few bitter
months, I have seen suffering and death. I have been afraid as I never knew
fear existed! I have learned to fight, and I have dealt death to my enemies.
All of that hurt me inside until I'm so numb I can't feel the pain anymore.
But what hurts worse is to see you with clear eyes."

"I never claimed to be perfect, Laurana," Tanis said quietly.

The silver moon and the red had risen, neither of them full yet, but shining
brightly enough for Tanis to see tears in Laurana's luminous eyes. He reached
out his hands to take her in his arms, but she took a step backwards.

"You may never claim it," she said scornfully, "but you certainly enjoy
allowing us to think it!"

Ignoring his outstretched hands, she grabbed a torch from the wall and walked
into the darkness beyond the gate of Thorbardin. Tanis watched her leave,
watched the light shine on her honey-colored hair, watched her walk, as
graceful as the slender aspens of their elven homeland of Qualinesti.

Tanis stood for a moment, staring after her, scratching the thick, reddish
beard that no elf on Krynn could grow. Pondering Laurana's last statement, he
thought, incongruously, of Kitiara. He conjured up pictures in his mind of
Kit's cropped, curly black hair, her crooked smile, her fiery, impetuous
temper, and her strong, sensual body-the body of a trained swordswoman, but he
discovered to his amazement that now the picture dissolved, pierced by the
calm, clear gaze of two slightly slanted, luminous, elven eyes.

Thunder rolled out from the mountain. The shaft that moved the huge stone gate
began to turn, grinding the door shut. Tanis, watching it shut, decided he
would not go in. "Sealed in a tomb." He smiled, recalling Sturm's words, but
there was a shiver in his soul as well. He stood for long moments, staring at
the door, feeling its weight settle between him and Laurana. The door sealed
shut with a dull boom. The face of the mountain was blank, cold, forbidding.

With a sigh, Tanis pulled his cloak about him and started toward the woods.
Even sleeping in the snow was better than sleeping underground. He had better
get used to it anyway. The Plains of Dust they would be traveling through to
reach Tarsis would probably be choked with snow, even this early in the
winter.
Thinking of the journey as he walked, Tanis looked up into the night sky. It
was beautiful, glittering with stars. But two gaping black holes marred the
beauty. Raistlin's missing constellations.

Holes in the sky. Holes in himself.

After his fight with Laurana, Tanis was almost glad to start on the journey.
All the companions had agreed tar go. Tanis knew that none of them felt truly
at home among the refugees.

Preparations for the journey gave him plenty to think about. He was able to
tell himself he didn't care that Laurana avoided him. .end, at the beginnings
the journey itself ways enjoyable. It seemed as if they were back in the early
days of fall instead of the beginning of winter. The sun shone, warming the
air. Only Raistlin wore his heaviest cloak.

Conversation as the companions walked through the northern part of the Plains
was light-hearted and merry, filled with teasing and bantering and reminding
each other of the fun they had shared in earlier, happier days in Solace. No
one spoke of the dark and evil things they had seen in the recent past. It was
as if, in the contemplation of a brighter future, they willed these things
never to have existed.

At night, Elistan explained to them what he was learning of the ancient gods
from the Disks of Mishakal, which he carried with him. His stories filled
their souls with peace and reinforced their faith. Even Tanis, who had spent a
lifetime searching for something to believe in and now that they had found it
viewed it with skepticism, felt deep in his soul that he could believe in this
if he believed in anything. He wanted to believe in it, but something held him
back, and every time he looked at Laurana, he knew what it was. Until he could
resolve his own inner turmoil, the raging division between the elven and human
inside of him, he would never know peace.

Only Raistlin did not share in the conversations, the merriment, the pranks
and jokes, the campfire talks. The mage spent his days studying his spellbook.
If interrupted, he would answer with a snarl. After dinner, of which he ate
little, he sat by himself, his eyes on the night sky, staring at the two
gaping black holes that were mirrored in the mage's black hourglass shaped
pupils.

It was only after several days that spirits began to flag. The sun was
obscured by clouds and the wind blew chill from the north. Snow fell so
thickly that one day they could not travel at all but were forced to seek
shelter in a cave until the blizzard blew itself out. They set double watch at
night, though no one could say exactly why, only that they felt a growing
sense of threat and menace. Riverwind stared uneasily at the trail they left
in the snow behind them. As Flint said, a blind gully dwarf could follow it.
The sense of menace grew, the sense of eyes watching and ears listening.

Yet who could it be, out here in the Plains of Dust whew nothing and no one
had lived for three hundred years?

Chapter 2

Between master and dragon.   Dismal journey.

The dragon sighed, flexed his huge wings, and lifted his ponderous body from
the warm, soothing waters of the hot springs. Emerging from a billowing cloud
of vapor, he braced himself to step into the chill air. The clear winter air
stung his delicate nostrils and bit into his throat. Swallowing painfully, he
firmly resisted the temptation to return do the warm pools and began to climb
to the high rocky ledge above him.

The dragon stamped irritably upon rocks slick with ice from the hot springs'
vapor, which cooled almost instantly in the freezing air. The stones cracked
and broke beneath his clawed feet, bounding and tumbling down into the valley
below.

Once he slipped, causing him momentarily to lose his balance. Spreading his
great wings, he recovered easily, but the incident only served to increase his
irritation further.

The morning sun lit the mountain peaks, touching the dragon, causing his blue
scales to shimmer golden in the clear light but doing little to warm his
blood. The dragon shivered again, stamping his feet upon the chill ground.
Winter was not for the blue dragons, nor was travel in this abysmal country.
With that thought in mind, as it had been in his mind all the long, bitter
night, Skie looked about for his master.

He found the Dragon Highlord standing upon an outcropping of rock, an imposing
figure in horned dragonhelm and blue dragon-scale armor. The Highlord, cape
whipping in the chill wind, was gazing with intense interest across the great
flat plain far below.

"Come, Lord, return to your tent." And let me return to the hot springs, Skie
added mentally. "This chill wind cuts to the bone. Why are you out here
anyway?"

Skie might have supposed the Highlord was reconnoitering, planning the
disposition of troops, the attacks of the dragonflights. But that was not the
case. The occupation of Tarsis had long been planned-planned, in fact, by
another Dragon Highlord, for this land was under the command of the red
dragons.

The blue dragons and their Dragon Highlords controlled the north, yet here I
stand, in these frigid southlands, Skie thought irritably. And behind me is an
entire flight of blue dragons. He turned his head slightly, looking down upon
his fellows beating their wings in the early morning, grateful for the hot
springs' warmth which took the chill from their tendons.

Fools, Skie thought scornfully. All they're waiting for is a signal from the
Highlord to attack. To light the skies and burn the cities with their deadly
bolts of lightning are all they care about. Their faith in the Dragon Highlord
is implicit. As well it might be, Skie admitted-their master had led them to
victory after victory in the north, and they had not lost one of their number.

They leave it to me to ask the questions-because I am the Highlord's mount,
because I am closest to the Highlord. Well, so be it. We understand each
other, the Highlord and I.

'We have no reason to be in Tarsis." Skie spoke his feelings plainly. He did
not fear the Highlord. Unlike many of the dragons in Krynn who served their
masters with grudging reluctance, knowing themselves to be the true rulers,
Skie served his master out of respect-and love. "The reds don't want us here,
that's certain. And we're not needed. That soft city that beckons you so
strangely will fall easily. No army. They swallowed the bait and marched off
to the frontier."

"We are here because my spies. tell me they are here-or will be shortly" was
the Highlord's answer. The voice was low but carried even aver the biting
wind.

"They... they..." grumbled the dragon, shivering and moving restlessly along
the ridge. "We leave the war in the north, waste valuable time, lose a fortune
in steel. And for what-a handful of itinerant adventurers?"

"The wealth is nothing to me, you know that. I could buy Tarsis if it pleased
me." The Dragon Highlord stroked the dragon's neck with an ice-caked leather
glove that creaked with the powerful movements. "The war in the north is going
well. Lord Ariakus did not mind my leaving. Bakaris is a skilled young
commander and knows my armies nearly as well as I do. And do not forget, Skie,
these are more than vagabonds. These 'itinerant adventurers' killed
Verminaard."

"Bah! The man had already dug his own grave. He was obsessed, font sight of
the true purpose." The dragon flicked a glance at his master. "The same might
be said of others."

"Obsessed; Yes, Verminaard was obsessed, and there are those who should be
taking that obsession snore seriously. He was a cleric, he knew what damage
the knowledge of the true gods, once spread among the people, can do us,"
answered the Highlord. "Now, according to reports, the people have a leader in
this human called Elistan, who has become a cleric of Paladine. Worshipers of
Mishakal bring true healing back to the land. No, Verminaard was farseeing.
There is great danger here. We should recognize and move to stop it-not scoff
at it"

The dragon snorted derisively. "This priest -Elistan- doesn't lead the people.
He leads eight hundred wretched humans, former slaves of Verminaard's in Pax
Tharkas. Now they're holed up in Southgate, with the mountain dwarves." The
dragon settled down on the rock, feeling the morning sun finally bringing a
modicum of warmth to his scaled skin. "Besides, our spies report they are
traveling to Tarsis even as we speak. By tonight, this Elistan will be ours
and that will be that. So much for the servant of Paladine!"

"Elistan is of no use to me." The Dragon Highlord shrugged without interest.
"He is not the one I seek."

"No?" Skie raised his head, startled. 'Who, then?"

"There are three in whom I have particular interest. But I will provide you
with descriptions oar all of them" The Dragon Highlord moved closer to Skie-
"because it is to capture them that we participate in the destruction of
Tarsis tomorrow. Here are those whom we seek..."

Tanis strode across the frozen plains, his booted footsteps punching noisily
through the crust of wind-swept snow. The sun rose at his back, bringing a
great deal of light but little warmth. He clutched his cloak about him and
glanced around to make certain no one was lagging behind. The companions line
stretched out single-file. They trod in each other's tracks, the heavier,
stronger people in front clearing the way for the weaker ones behind them.

Tanis led them. Sturm walked beside him, steadfast and faithful as ever,
though still upset over leaving behind the Hammer of Kharas, which had taken
on an almost mystical quality for the knight. He appeared more careworn and
tired than usual, but he never failed to keep step with Tanis. This was not an
easy feat, since the knight insisted on traveling in his full, antique battle
armor, the weight of which forced Sturm's feet deep into the crusted snow.
Behind Sturm and Tanis came Caramon, trudging through the snow like a great
bear, his arsenal of weapons clanking around him, carrying his armor and his
share of supplies, as well as those of his twin brother, Raistlin, on his
back.

Just watching Caramon made Tanis weary, for the big warrior was not only
walking through the deep snow with ease but was also managing to widen the
trail for the others behind him.

Of all of the companions the one Tanis might have felt closest to, since they
had been raised together as brothers, was the next, Gilthanas. But Gilthanas
was an elflord, younger son of the Speaker of the Suns, ruler of the
Qualinesti elves, while Tanis was a bastard and only half elven, product of a
brutal rape by a human warrior. Worse, Tanis had dared to find himself
attracted-even if in a childish, immature fashion-to Gilthanas's sister,
Laurana. And so, far from being friends, Tanis always had the uneasy
impression that Gilthanas might well be pleased to see him dead.

Riverwind and Goldmoon walked together behind the elflord. Cloaked in their
furskin capes, the cold was little to the Plainsmen. Certainly the cold was
nothing compared to the flame in their hearts. They had been married only a
little over a month, and the deep love and compassion each felt for the other,
a self-sacrificing love that had led the world to the discovery of the ancient
gods, now achieved greater depths as they discovered new ways to express it.

Then came Elistan and Laurana. Elistan and Laurana. Tanis found it odd that,
thinking enviously of the happiness of Riverwind .and Goldmoon, his eyes
should encounter these two. Elistan and Laurana. Always together. Always
deeply involved in serious conversation. Elistan, cleric of Paladine,
resplendent in white robes that gleamed even against the snow. White-bearded,
his hair thinning; he was shill an imposing figure. The kind of man who might
well attract a young girl. Few men or women could look into Elistan's ice-blue
eyes and not feel stirred, awed in the presence of one who had walked the
realms of death -and found a new and stronger faith.

With him walked his faithful 'assistant' Laurana. The young elfmaid had run
away from her home in Qualinesti to follow Tanis in childish infatuation. She
had been forced to grow up rapidly; her eyes opened to the pain and suffering
in the world. Knowing that many of the party-Tanis, among them - considered
her a nuisance, Laurana struggled to prove her worth. With Elistan, she found
her chance. Daughter to the Speaker of the Suns of the Qualinesti. she had
been born .and bred to politics. When Elistan was foundering among the rocks
trying to feed and. clothe and control eight hundred men, women, and children,
it was Laurana who stepped in and eased his burden. She had become
Indispensable to him, a fact Tanis found difficult to deal with. The half-elf
gritted his teeth let


INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28
INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28
INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28 INSERT PAGE 28

"Something's wrong. Do you want me to go with you?"

Tanis, seeing the weariness in the knight's face, shook his head, "You get the
others organized." Dressed in a winter traveling cloak of white, he prepared
to climb the snow-covered, rock-strewn hills, Ready to start, he felt a cold
hand on his arm. He turned and looked into the eyes of the mage.

"I will come with you," Raistlin whispered.
Tanis stared at him in astonishment, then glanced up at the hills. The climb
would not be an easy one, and he knew the mage's dislike of extreme physical
exertion. Raistlin saw his glance and understood.

"My brother will help me," he said, beckoning to Caramon, who appeared
startled but stood up immediately and came over to stand beside his brother.
"I would look upon the city of Tarsis the Beautiful."

Tanis regarded him uneasily, but Raistlin's face was as impassive and cold as
the metal it resembled.

"Very well," the hall-elf said, studying Raistlin. "But you'll show up an the
face of that mountain like a blood stain. Cover yourself with a white robe."
The half-elf's sardonic smile was an almost perfect imitation of Raistlin's
own. "Borrow one from Elistan."

Tanis, standing on the top of the hill overlooking the legendary seaport city
of Tarsis the Beautiful, began to swear softly. Wispy clouds of steam floated
from his lips with the hot wards. Drawing the hood of his heavy cloak over his
head, he stared down into tire city in bitter disappointment.

Caramon nudged hits twin. "Raist," he said. "What's the matter? I don't
understand."

Raistlin coughed. "Your brains are in your swordarm, my brother." the mage
whispered caustically. "Look upon Tarsis, legendary seaport city. What do you
see?"

"Well..." Caramon squinted. "It's one of the biggest cities I've seen. And
there acre ships-just like we heard-"

"The white-winged ships of Tarsis the Beautiful," Raistlin quoted bitterly.
"You look upon the ships, my brother. Do you notice anything peculiar about
them?"

"They're not in very good shape. The sails are ragged and-" Caramon blinked.
Thin he gasped. "There's no water!"

"Most observant."

"But the kender's map-"

"Dated before the Cataclysm." Tanis interrupted. "Damn it, I should have
known! I should have considered this possibility 'Tarsis the
Beautiful'-legendary seaport-now landlocked!"

"And has been for three hundred years, undoubtedly." Raistlin whispered. "When
the fiery mountain fell from the sky, it created seas-as we saw in Xak
Tsaroth-but it also destroyed them. What do we do with the refugees now,
Half-elf"

"I don't know," Tanis snapped irritably. He stared down at the city, then
turned away. "It's no good standing around here. The sea isn't going to
comeback just for our benefit. " He turned away and walked slowly down the
cliff.

"What will we do?" Caramon asked his brother. "We can't go back to Southgate.
I know something or someone was dogging our footsteps." He glanced around
worriedly. "I feel eyes watching-even now."
Raistlin put his hand through his brothers arm. For a rare instant, the two
looked remarkably alike. Light and darkness were not more different than the
twins.

"You are wise to trust your feelings, my brother," Raistlin said softly "great
danger and great evil surround us, I have felt it growing on me since the
people arrived in Southgate, I tried to warn them-" He broke off in a fit of
coughing.

"How do you know?" Caramon asked.

Raistlin shook his head, unable to answer for long moments. Then, when the
spasm had passed, he drew a shuddering breath and glanced at his brother
irritably. "Haven't you learned yet" he said bitterly. "I know! Put it at
that. I paid for my knowledge in the Towers of High Sorcery. I paid for it
with my body and very nearly my reason. I paid for it with-" Raistlin stopped,
looking at his twin.

Caramon was pale and silent as always whenever the Testing was mentioned. He
started to say something, choked, then cleared his throat. "It's just that I
don't understand-'"

Raistlin sighed and shook his head, withdrawing his arm from his brother's.
Then, leaning on his staff, he began to walk down the hill. "Nor will you,"
he murmured. "Ever."

Three hundred years ago, Tarsis the Beautiful was Lordcity of the lands of
Abanasinia. From here set sail the white-winged ships for all the known lands
of Krynn. Here they returned, bearing all manner of objects, precious and
curious, hideous and delicate. The Tarsian marketplace was a thing of wonder.
Sailors swaggered the streets, their golden earrings flashing as brightly as
their knives. The ships brought exotic peoples from distant lands to sell
their wares. Some dressed in gaily colored, flowing silks, bedizened with
jewels. They sold spices and teas, oranges and pearls, and bright-colored
birds in cages. Others, dressed in crude skins, sold luxuriant furs from
strange animals as grotesque as those who hunted them.

Of course, there were buyers at the Tarsian market as well; almost as strange
and exotic and dangerous as the sellers. Wizards dressed in robes of white,
red, or black strode the bazaars, searching for rare spell components to make
their magic. Distrusted even then, they walked through the crowds, isolated
and alone. Few spoke even to those wearing the white robes, and no one ever
cheated them.

Clerics, too, sought ingredients for their healing potions. For there were
clerics in Krynn before the Cataclysm. Some worshiped the gods of good, some
the gods of neutrality, some the gods of evil. All had great power. Their
prayers, for good or for evil, were answered.

And always, walking among all the strange and exotic peoples gathered in the
bazaar of Tarsis the Beautiful, were the Knights of Solamnia: keeping order,
guarding the land, living their disciplined lives in strict observance of the
Code and the Measure. The Knights were followers of Paladine, and were noted
for their pious obedience to the gods.

The walled city of Tarsis had its own army and-so it was said-had never fallen
to an invading force. The city was ruled-under the watchful eyes of the
Knights-by a Lordfamily and had the good fortune to fall to the care of a
family possessing sense, sensitivity, and justice. Tarsis became a center of
learning; sages from lands all around came here to share their wisdom. Schools
and a great library were established, temples were built to the gods. Young
men and women eager for Knowledge came to Tarsis to study.

The early dragonwars had not affected Tarsis. The huge walled city; its
formidable army, its fleets of white-winged
ships, and its vigilant Knights of Solamnia daunted even the Queen of
Darkness. Before she could consolidate her power and strike the Lordcity, Huma
drove her dragons from the skies. Thus Tarsis prospered and became, during the
Age of Might, one of the wealthiest and proudest cities of Krynn.

And, as with so many other cities in Krynn, with its pride grew its conceit.
Tarsis began seeking more and more from the gods: wealth, power, glory. The
people worshiped the Kingpriest of Istar who, seeing suffering in the land,
demanded of the gods in his arrogance while they had granted Huma in humility.
Even the Knights of Solamnia-bound by the strict laws of the Measure, encased
in a religion that had become all ritual with little depth-fell under the swap
of the mighty Kingpriest.

Then came the Cataclysm-a night of terror, when it rained fire. The ground
heaved and cracked as the gods in their righteous anger hurled a mountain of
rock down upon Krynn, punishing the Kingpriest of Istar and the people for
their pride.

The people turned to the Knights of Solamnia. "You who are righteous, help
us!" they cried. "Placate the gods!"

But the Knights could do nothing. The fire fell from the heavens, the land
split asunder. The sea waters fled, the ships foundered and toppled, the wall
of the city crumbled.

When the night of horror ended, Tarsis was landlocked. The white-winged ships
lay upon the sand like wounded birds. Dazed and bleeding, the survivors tried
to rebuild their city, expecting any moment to see the Knights of Solamnia
come marching from their great fortresses in the north, marching from
Palanthas, Salanthus, Vingaard Keep, Thelgaard, marching south to Tarsis to
help them and protect them once more.

But the Knights did not come. They had their own troubles and could not leave
Solamnia. Even if they had been able to march, a new sea split the lands of
Abanasinia. The dwarves in their mountain kingdom of Thorbardin shut their
gates, refusing admittance to anyone, and so the mountain passes were blocked.
The elves withdrew into Qualinesti, nursing their wounds, blaming humans for
the catastrophe. Soon, Tarsis lost all contact with the world to the north.

And so, following the Cataclysm, when it became apparent that the city had
best abandoned by the Knights, came the Day
of Banishment. The lord of the city was placed in an awkward position. He did
not truly believe in the corruption of the Knights, but he knew the people
needed something or someone to blame. If he sided with the Knights, he would
lose control of the city, and so he was forced to close his eyes to angry mobs
that attacked the few Knights remaining in Tarsis. They were driven from the
city-or murdered.

After a time, order was restored in Tarsis. The lord and his family
established a new army. But much was changed. The people believed the ancient
gods they had worshiped for so long had turned away from them. They found new
gods to worship, even though these new gods rarely answered prayers. All
clerical powers that had been present in the land before the Cataclysm were
lost. Clerics with false promises and false hopes proliferated. Charlatan
healers walked the land, selling their phony cure-ails.

After a time, many of the people drifted away from Tarsis. No longer did
sailors walk the marketplace; elves, dwarves, and other races came no more.
The people remaining in Tarsis liked it this way. They began to fear and
mistrust the outside world. Strangers were not encouraged.

But Tarsis had been a trade center far so long that those people in the
outlying countryside who could still reach Tarsis continued to do so. The
outer hub of the city was rebuilt. The inner part-the temples, the schools,
the great library-was left in ruins. The bazaar was reopened, only now it was
a market for farmers and a forum for false clerics preaching new religions.
Peace settled over the town like a blanket. Farmer days of glory were as a
dream and might not have even been believed, but for the evidence in the
center of town.

Now, of course, Tarsis heard rumors of war, but these were generally
discounted, although the lord did send his army out to guard the plains to the
south. If anyone asked why, he said it was a field exercise, nothing mare.
These rumors, after all, had come out of the north, and all knew the Knights
of Solamnia were trying desperately to reestablish their power. It was,
amazing what lengths the traitorous Knights would go to spreading stories of
the return of dragons!

This was Tarsis the Beautiful, the city the companions entered that morning,
just a short time after sunrise.

Chapter 4

Arrested! The heroes are separated. An ominous farewell.

The few sleepy guards upon the city walls that morning woke up at the sight of
the swordbearing, travel-worn group seeking entry. They did not deny them.
They did not even question them-much. A redbearded, soft-woken half-elf, the
like of which had not been seen in Tarsis in decades, said they had traveled
far and sought shelter. His companions stood quietly behind him, making no
threatening gestures. Yawning, the guards directed them to the Red Dragon Inn.

This might have ended the matter. Tarsis, after all, was beginning to see more
and more strange characters as rumors of war spread. But the cloak of one of
the humans blew aside as he stepped through the gate, and a guard caught a
flash of bright armor in the morning sun. The guard saw the hated and reviled
symbol of the Knights of Solamnia on the antique breastplate. Scowling, the
guard melted into the shadows, slinking after the group as it walked through
the streets of the waking town.

The guard watched them enter the Red Dragon. He waited outside in the   cold
until he was sure they must be in their rooms. Then, slipping inside,   he spoke
a few words to the innkeeper. The guard peeped inside the common room   and,
seeing the group seated and apparently settled for some time, ran off   to make
his report.

"This is what comes of trusting a kender's map!" said the dwarf irritably,
shoving away his empty plate and wiping his hand across his mouth. "Takes us
to a seaport city with no sea!"

"It's not my fault;" Tas protested. "I told Tanis when I gave him the map that
it dated before the Cataclysm. 'Tas' Tanis said before we left, 'do you have a
map that shows us haw to get to Tarsis?' I said I did and I gave him this one.
It shows Thorbardin, the dwarven kingdom under the mountain, and Southgate,
and here it shows Tarsis, and everything else was right where the map said it
was supposed to be. I can't help it if something happened to the ocean! I-"

"That's enough, Tas." Tanis sighed. "Nobody's blaming you. It isn't anybody's
fault. We just let our hopes get too high."

The kender, his feelings mollified, retrieved his map, rolled it up, and slid
it into his mapcase with all his other precious maps of Krynn. Then he put his
small chin in his hands and sat staring around the table at his gloomy
companions. They began to discuss what to do next, talking half-heartedly.

Tas grew bored. He wanted to explore this city. There were all kinds of
unusual sights and sounds-Flint had been forced to practically drag him along
as they entered Tarsis. There was a fabulous marketplace with wonderful things
just lying around, waiting to be admired. He had even spotted some other
kenders, too, and he wanted to talk to them. He was worried about his
homeland. Flint kicked him under the table.

Sighing Tas turned his attention back to Tanis.

"We'll spend the night here, rest, and learn what we can, then send word back
to Southgate." Tanis was saying. "Perhaps there is another portcity farther
south. Some of us might go on and investigate. What do you think, Elistan?"

The cleric pushed away a plate of uneaten food. "I suppose it is our only
choice," he said sadly. "But I will return to Southgate. I cannot be away from
the people long. You should come with me, too, my dear," He laid his hand over
Laurana's. "I cannot dispense with your help."

Laurana smiled at Elistan. Then, her gaze moving to Tanis, tile smile vanished
as she saw the half-elf scowl.

"Riverwind and I have discussed this already. We will return with Elistan,"
Goldmoon said. Her silver-gold hair gleamed in tile sunlight streaming through
the window. "The people need my healing skills."

"Besides which the bridal couple misses the privacy of their tent;" Caramon
said in an audible undertone. Goldmoon flushed a dusky rose color as her
husband smiled.

Sturm glanced at Caramon in disgust and turned to Tanis, "I will go with you,
my friend." he offered.

"Us, too, of course." said Caramon promptly.

Sturm frowned, looking at Raistlin, who sat huddled in his red robes near the
fire, drinking the strange herbal concoction that eased his cough. "I do not
think your brother is fit to travel, Caramon-" Sturm began.

"You are suddenly very solicitous of my health, knight." Raistlin whispered
sarcastically. "But, then, it is not my health that concerns you, is it, Sturm
Brightblade? It is my growing power. You fear me-"

"That's enough!" said Tanis as Sturm's face darkened.

"The mage goes back, or I do," Sturm said coldly.

"Sturm-" Tanis began..

Tasslehoff took this opportunity to leave the table very quietly. Everyone was
focused an the argument between the knight, the half-elf, and the magic-user.
Tasslehoff skipped out the front door of the Red Dragon; a name he thought
particularly funny. But Tanis had not laughed.

Tas thought about that as he walked along, looking at the new sights ire
delight. Tanis didn't laugh at anything anymore.
The half-elf was certainly carrying the weight of the world on his shoulders,
it seemed. Tasslehoff suspected he knew what was wrong with Tanis. The kender
took a ring out of one of his pouches and studied it. The ring was golden, of
elven make, carved in the form of clinging ivy leaves. He had picked it up in
Qualinesti. This time, the ring was not something the kender had 'acquired' It
had been thrown at his feet by a heartbroken Laurana after Tanis had returned
it to her.

The kender considered all this and decided that splitting up and going off
after new adventure was just what everyone needed. He, of course, would go
with Tanis and Flint-the kender firmly believed neither could get along
without him. But first, he'd get a glimpse of this interesting city.

Tasslehoff reached the end of the street. Glancing back, he could see the Red
Dragon Inn. Good. No one was out looking for him yet. He was just about to ask
a passing street peddler how to get to the marketplace when he saw something
that promised to make this interesting city a whole lot more interesting....

Tanis settled the argument between Sturm and Raistlin, for the time being at
least. The mage decided to stay in Tarsis to hunt for the remains of the old
library. Caramon and Tika offered to stay with him, while Tanis, Sturm, and
Flint (and Tas) would push southward, picking up the brothers on their way
back. The rest of the group would take the disappointing news back to
Southgate.

That being settled, Tanis went to the innkeeper to pay far their night's
lodging. He was counting out silver coins when he felt a hand touch his arm.

"I want you to ask to have my room changed to one near Elistan's," Laurana
said.

Tanis glanced at her sharply. "Why is that?" he asked, trying to keep the
harshness out of his voice.

Laurana sighed. "We're not going to go through this again, are we? "

"I have no idea what you mean," Tanis said coldly, turning away from the
grinning innkeeper.

"For the first time in my life, I'm doing something meaningful and useful,"
Laurana said, catching hold of his arm. "And you want me to quit because of
same jealous notion you have about me and Elistan-"

"I am not jealous," Tanis retorted, flushing. "I told you in Qualinesti that
what was between us when we were younger is over now. I-" He paused, wandering
if that were true. Even as he spoke, his soul trembled at her beauty. Yes,
that youthful infatuation was gone, but was it being replaced by something
else, something stronger and more enduring? And was he losing it? Had he
already lost it through his own indecisiveness and stubbornness? He was acting
typically human, the half-elf thought. Refusing that which was in easy reach,
only to cry for it when it was gone. He shook his head in confusion.

"If you're not jealous, then why don't you leave me alone and Let me continue
my work for Elistan in peace?" Laurana asked coldly. "You-"
"Shush!" Tanis held up his hand. Laurana, annoyed, started to talk, but Tanis
glared at her so fiercely she fell silent.

Tanis listened. Yes, he'd been right. He could hear clearly now the shrulc
high-pitched" screaming whine of the leather sling on the end of Tas's hoopak
staff. It was a peculiar sound, produced by the kender swinging the sling in a
circle over his head and it raised the hair on the back of the neck. It was
also a kender signal for danger.

"Trouble," Tanis said softly. "get the others." Taking one look at his grim
face, Laurana obeyed without question. Tanis turned abruptly to face the
innkeeper, who was sidling around the desk. "Where are you going?" he asked
sharply.

"Just Leaving to check your rooms, sir." The innkeeper said smoothly; and he
vanished precipitously into the kitchen. Just then, Tasslehoff burst through
the roar of the inn.

"Guards, Tanis! Guards!. Coming this way!"

"Surely they can't be here because of us," Tanis said. He stopped; eyeing the
light-fingered kender, struck by a sudden thought. "Tas-"

"It wasn't me, honest! " Tas protested. "I never even reached the marketplace!
I just got to the bottom of the street when I saw a whole troop of guards
coming this direction."

"What's this about guards?" Sturm asked as he entered from the common ram. "Is
this one of the kender's stories?"

"No. Listen," Tanis said. Every one hushed. They could hear the tramp of
booted feet coming their direction and glanced at each other in apprehension
and concern. "The innkeeper's disappeared. I thought we got into the city a
bit too easily. I should have expected trouble." Tanis scratched his beard,
well aware that everyone was looking to him for orders.

"Laurana, you and Elistan go upstairs. Sturm, you and Gilthanas remain with
me. The rest of you go to your rooms. Riverwind, you're in command. You,
Caramon, and Raistlin protect them. Use your magic, Raistlin, if necessary.
Flint-"

"I'm staying with you," the dwarf stated firmly.

Tanis smiled and put his hand on Flint's shoulder. "Of course, old friend. I
didn't even think you needed telling."

Grinning, Flint pulled his battle-axe out of its holder on his back. "Take
this," he said to Caramon. "Better you have it than any scurvy, lice-ridden
city guards."

"That's a good idea." Tanis said. Unbuckling his swordbelt, he handed Caramon
Wyrmslayer, the magical sword given to him by the skeleton of Kith-Kanan, the
Elven King.

Gilthanas silently handed over his sword and his elven bow.

"Yours, too, knight," Caramon said, holding out his hand.

Sturm frowned. This antique, two-handed sword and its scabbard were the only
legacy he had left of his father, a great Knight of Solamnia, who had vanished
after sending his wife and young ran into exile. Slowly Sturm unbuckled his
swordbelt and handed it to Caramon.

The jovial warrior, seeing the knight's obvious concern, grew serious. "I'll
guard it carefully, you know that, Sturm."

"I know." Sturm said, smiling sadly. He glanced up at Raistlin, who was
standing on the stairs. "Besides, there is always the great worm, Catyrpelius,
to protect it, isn't there, mage?"

Raistlin started at this unexpected reminder of a time in the burned-out city
of Solace when he had tricked some hobgoblins into believing Sturm's sword was
cursed. It was the closest to an expression of gratitude that the knight had
ever made to the mage. Raistlin smiled. Briefly.

"Yes," he whispered. "there is always the Worm. Do not fear, knight. Your
weapon is safe, as are the lives of those you leave in our care ... if any are
safe.... Farewell, my friends," he hissed, his strange hourglass eyes
gleaming. "And a long farewell it will be. Same of us are not destined to meet
again in this world." With that, he bowed and, gathering his red robes around
him, began to climb the stairs.

Trust Raistlin to exit with a flourish, Tanis thought irritably, hearing
boated feet near the door.

"Go on!" he ordered. "If he's right, there's nothing we can do about it now."

After a hesitant look at Tanis, the others did as he ordered, climbing the
stairs quickly. Only Laurana cast a fearful glance back at Tanis as Elistan
took her arm. Caramon, sword drawn, waited behind until the last was past.

"Don't worry," the big warrior said uneasily. "We'll be all right. If you're
not back by nightfall-"

"Don't come looking for us!" Tanis said, guessing Caramon's intention. The
half-elf was more disturbed than he cared to admit by Raistlin's ominous
statement. He had known the mage many years and had seen his power grow, even
as the shadows seemed to gather more thickly around him. "If we're not back,
get Elistan, Goldmoon, and the others back to Southgate ."

Caramon nodded reluctantly, then he walked ponderously up the stairs, his
weapons clanking around him.

"It's probably just a routine check," Sturm said hurriedly in a low voice as
the guards could be seen through the window now. "They'll ask us a few
questions, then release us. But, they've undoubtedly got a description of ally
of us!"

"I have a feeling it isn't routine. Not the way everyone's vanished. And
they're going to have to settle for some of us." Tanis said softly as the
guards entered the door, led by the constable and accompanied by the guard
from the wall.

"That's them!" the guard cried, pointing. "There's the knight, like I told
you. And the bearded elf, the dwarf, and the kender, and an elflord."

"Right," the constable said briskly. "Now, where are the others?" At his
gesture, his guards leveled their hauberks, pointing there at the companions.
"I don't understand what all this is about." Tanis said mildly. "We are
strangers in Tarsis, simply passing through on our way south. Is this how you
welcome strangers to your city?"

"We don't welcome strangers to our city," the constable replied. His gaze
shifted to Sturm and he sneered. "Especially a Knight of Solamnia. If you're
innocent as you say you are, you won't mind answering some questions from the
Lord and his council. Where's the rest of your party?"

"My friends are tired and have gone to their rooms to rest. Our journey has
been long and tiring. But we do not want to cause trouble. The four of us will
come with you and answer your questions. ('Five' said Tasslehoff indignantly,
but everyone ignored him.) There is no need to disturb our companions."

"Go get the others," the constable ordered his men.

Two guards headed for the stairs, which suddenly burst into flame! Smoke
billowed into the roam, driving the guards back. Everyone ran for the door.
Tanis grabbed Tasslehoff, who was staring with wide-eyed interest, and dragged
him outside.

The constable was frantically blowing on his whistle, while several of his men
prepared to dash off through the streets, raising the alarm. But the flames
died as quickly as they had been born.

"Eeep-"The constable choked off his whistle. His face pale, he stepped warily
back inside the inn. Tanis, peering aver his shoulder, shook his head in awe.
There was not a whisper of smoke, not a bit of varnish had so much as peeled.
From the top of the stairs, He could hear faintly the sound of Raistlin's
voice. As the constable glanced apprehensively up the stairs, the chanting
stopped.

Tanis swallowed, then drew a deep breath. He knew he must he as pale as the
constable, and he glanced at Sturm and Flint. Raistlin's power was growing...

"The magician must be up there," the constable muttered.

"Very goad, Birdwhistle, and haw long'd it take you to figure that one out"
Tas began in a tone of voice Tanis knew meant trouble. He trod upon the
Kender's foot, and Tas subsided into silence with a reproachful dance.

Fortunately the constable didn't appear to have heard. He glared at Sturm.
"You'll come with us peacefully."

"Yes," answered Sturm. "You have my word of honor," the knight added "and no
matter what you may think of the Knights, you know that my honor is my life."

The constable's eyes went to the dark stairway "Very well," he said finally.
"Two of you guards stay here at the stair. The rest cover the other exits.
Check anyone coming in and out. You all have the descriptions of the
strangers?"

The guards nodded, exchanging uneasy glances. The two slated for guard duty
inside the inn gave the staircase a frightened look and stood as far from it
as possible. Tanis smiled grimly to himself.

The five companions, the kender grinning with excitement, followed the
constable out of the building. As they walked into the street, Tanis caught
sight of movement at an upstairs window. Looking up, he saw Laurana watching,
her face drawn with fear. She raised her hand, he saw her lips form the words,
"I'm sorry" in elven. Raistlin's words came to his mind and he felt chilled.
His heart ached. The thought that he might never see her again made the world
seem suddenly bleak and empty and desolate. He realized what Laurana had come
to mean to him in these last few dark months when even hope had died as he saw
the evil armies of the Dragon Highlords overrun the land. Her steadfast faith,
her courage, her unfailing, undying hope! How different from Kitiara!

The guard poked Tanis in the back. "Face forward! Quit signaling to those
friends of yours!" he snarled. The half-elf's thoughts returned to Kitiara.
No, the warrior woman could never have acted so selflessly. She never could
have helped the people as Laurana had helped them. Kit would have grown
impatient and angry and left them to live or die as they chose. She detested
and despised those weaker than herself.

Tanis thought of Kitiara and he thought of Laurana, but he was interested to
note that the old painful thrill didn't knot his soul anymore when he said
Kitiara's name to himself. No, now it was Laurana-the silly little girl who,
had been no more than a spoiled and irritating child only months before-who
made his blood burn and his hands search for excuses to touch her. And now,
perhaps, it was too late.

When he reached the end of the street, he glanced back again, hoping to give
her same sort of sign. Let her know he understood. Let her know he'd been a
fool. Let her know he-

But the curtain was drawn.

Chapter 5
The riot. Tas disappears.    Alhana Starbreeze.


"Foul knight... "

A rock struck Sturm on the shoulder. The knight flinched, though the stone
could have caused him little pain through his armor. Tanis, looking at his
pale face and quivering moustaches, knew the pain was deeper than a weapon
could inflict.

"The crowds grew as the companions were marched through the street and word of
their taming spread. Sturm walked with dignity, his head held proudly,
ignoring the taunts and jeers. Although their guards shoved the crowd back
time and again, they did it half-heartedly and the crowd knew it. More rocks
were thrown, as were other objects even less pleasant. Soon all of the
companions were cut and bleeding and covered with garbage and filth.

Tanis knew Sturm would never stop to retaliation, not on this rabble, but the
half-elf had to keep a firm grip on Flint. Even then, he was in constant fear
the angry dwarf would charge past the guards and start breaking heads. But, in
watching Flint, Tanis had forgotten Tasslehoff.

Besides being quite casual in respect to other people's property, kenders have
another unendearing characteristic known as the "taunt." AII kenders possess
this talent to a greater or lesser degree. It is hoses their diminutive race
has managed to thrive and survive in a world of knights and warriors, trolls
and hobgoblins. The taunt is the ability to insult an enemy and work him into
such a fever pitch of rage that he loses his head and begins fighting wildly
and erratically- Tas was a master at the taunt, though he rarely found a need
to use it when traveling with his warrior friends. But Tas derided to take
full advantage of this opportunity.
He began to shout insults back.

Too late Tanis realised what was happening. In vain he tried to shut him up.
Tas was at the front off the line, the half-elf at the back, and there was no
way to gag the kender.

Such insults as 'foul knight' and 'elven scum' lacked imagination, Tas felt.
He derided to show these people exactly how much range and scope for variety
were available in the Common language. Tasslehoff's insults were masterpieces
of creativity and ingenuity. Unfortunately, that, also tended to be extremely
personal and occasionally rather crude, delivered with an air of charming
innocence..

"Is that your nose or a disease? Can those fleas crawling on your body do
tricks? Was your mother a gully dwarf?" were only the beginning. Matters went
rapidly dawn hill from there.

The guards began eyeing angry crowd in alarm, while the constable gave the
order to hurry the prisoners' march. What he had seen as a victory procession
exhibiting trophies of conquest appeared to be disintegrating into a
full-scale riot.

"Shut that Kender up!" he yelled furiously.

Tanis tried desperately to reach Tasslehoff, but the struggling guards and the
surging crowd made it impossible. Gilthanas was knocked off his feet. Sturm
bent over the elf, trying to protect him. Flint was kicking and flailing about
in a rage. Tanis had just neared Tasslehoff when he was hit in the face with a
tomato and momentarily blinded.

"Hey, constable, you know what you could do with that whistle? You could-"

Tasslehoff never got a chance to tell the constable what he might do with the
whistle, because at that instant a large hand plucked him up out of the center
of the melee. A hand clapped itself over Tas's mouth, while two more pairs of
hands gripped the Kender's wildly kicking feet. A sack was popped over his
head, and all Tas saw or smelled from that point on was burlap as he felt
himself being carried away.

Tanis, wiping tomato from his stinging eyes, heard the sound of boated feet
and more shouts and yells. The crowd hooted and jeered, them brake and ran.
When he could finally see again, the half-elf glanced around quickly to make
certain everyone was all right. Sturm was helping Gilthanas rise, wiping blood
from a cut on the elf's forehead. Flint, swearing fluently, plucked cabbage
from his beard.

"Where's that blasted kender!" the dwarf roared. "I'll-" He stopped and
stared, fuming this way and that. "Where is that blasted Kender? Tas? So help
me-"

"Hush!" Tanis ordered, realizing Tas had managed to escape.

Flint turned purple. 'Why that little bastard!" he swore. "He was the one got
us into this and he left us to-"

"Shhh!" Tamil said, glaring at the dwarf.

Flint ducked and fell silent.

The constable hustled his prisoners into the Hall of Justice. It was only when
they were safely inside the ugly brick building chat he realized one of them
was missing.

"Shall we go after him, sir?" asked a guard.

The constable thought a moment, then shook his head in anger. "Don't waste
your time," he said bitterly. "Do you know what it's like trying to find a
kender who doesn't want to be found? Let him go. We've still got the important
ones. Have them wait here while I inform the Council."

The constable entered a plain wooden door, leaving the companions and their
guards standing in a dark, smelly hallway. A tinker lay in a corner, snoring
noisily, obviously having taken too much wine. The guards wiped pumpkin rind
off their uniforms and grimly divested themselves of carrot tops and other
garbage that clung to them. Gilthanas dabbed at the blood on his face. Sturm
tried to clean his cloak as best he could.

The constable returned, beckoning from the doorway.

"Bring them along."

As the guards shoved their prisoners forward, Tanis managed to get near Sturm.
"Who's in charge here?" he whispered.

"If we are fortunate, the Lord is still in control of the city." the knight
replied softly. "The Tarsian lords always had the reputation for being noble
and honorable." He shrugged. "Besides, what charges do they have against us?
We've done nothing. At the worst, an armed escort will make us leave the
city."

Tanis shook his head dubiously as he entered the court room. It took some time
for his eyes to adjust to the dimness of the dingy chambers that smelled even
worse than the hallway. Two of the Tarsian council members held oranges
studded with cloves up to their noses.

The six members of the council were seated at the bench, which stood upon a
tall platform, three upon either side of their Lard, whose tall chair sat in
the center. The Lord glanced up as they entered. His eyebrows raised slightly
at the sight of Sturm, and it seemed to Tanis that his face softened. The Lord
even nodded in a gesture of polite greeting to the knight. Tanis's hopes rose.
The companions walked forward to stand before the bench. There were no chairs.
Supplicants or prisoners before the council stand to present their cases.

"What is the charge against these men?" the lord asked.

The constable gave the companions a baleful glance.

"Inciting a riot, milord," he said.

"Riot!" Flint exploded. "We had nothing to do with any riot! It oral that
rattle-brained-"

A figure in long robes crept forward from the shadows to whisper in his
Lordship's ear. None of the companions had noticed the figure as they entered.
They noticed it now.

Flint coughed and fell silent, giving Tanis a meaningful, grim look from
beneath his thick, white eyebrows. The dwarf shook his head, his shoulders
slumped. Tanis, sighed wearily. Gilthanas wiped blood from his cut with a
shaking hand, his elven features pale with hatred. Only Sturm stood outwardly
calm and unmoved as he looked upon the twisted half-man, half-reptilian face
of a draconian.

The companions remaining in the Inn sat together in Elistan's room for at
least an hour after the others were taken away by the guards. Caramon remained
on guard near the door, his sword drawn. Riverwind kept watch out the window.
In the distance, they could hear the sounds of the angry mob and looked at
each other with tense, strained faces. Then the noise faded. No one disturbed
them. The Inn was deathly quiet.

The morning wore on without incident. The pale, cold sun climbed in the sky,
doing little to warm the winter day. Caramon sheathed his sword and yawned.
Tika dragged a chair over to sit beside him. Riverwind went to stand
watchfully near Goldmoon, who was talking quietly to Elistan, making plans for
the refugees.

Only Laurana remained standing by the window, though there was nothing to see.
The guards had apparently grown tired of marching up and down the street and
now huddled in doorways, trying to keep warm. Behind her, she could hear Tika
and Caramon laugh softly together. Laurana glanced around at them. Talking too
quietly to be heard, Caramon appeared to be describing a battle. Tika listened
intently, her eyes gleaming with admiration.

The young barmaid had received a great deal of practice in fighting on their
journey south to find the Hammer of Kharas and, though she would never be
truly skilled with a sword, she had developed shield-bashing into an art. She
wore her armor casually now. It was still mismatched, but she kept adding to
it, scrounging pieces left on battlefields. The sunlight glinted on her
chainmail vest, glistened in her red hair. Caramon's face was animated and
relaxed as he talked with the young woman. They did not touch-not with the
golden eyes of Caramon's twin on them-but they leaned very near each other.

Laurana sighed and turned away, feeling very lonely and thinking of Raistlin's
wards-very frightened.

She heard her sigh echoed, but it was not a sigh of regret. It was a sigh of
irritation. Turning slightly, she looked dawn at Raistlin. The mage had closed
the spellbook he was trying to read, and moved into the little bit of sunlight
that came through the glass. He had to study his spellbook daily. It is the
curse of the magi that they must commit their spells to memory time and again,
for the words of magic flicker and die like sparks from a fire. Each spell
cast saps the mage's strength, leaving him physically weakened until he is
finally exhausted and cannot work any magic at all without rest.

Raistlin's strength had been growing since the companions' meeting in Solace,
as had his power. He had mastered several new spells taught to him by Fizban,
the bumbling old magician who had died in Pax Tharkas. As his power grew, so
did the misgivings of his companions. No one had any overt cause to mistrust
him-indeed, his magic had saved their lives several times. But there was
something disquieting about him-secret, silent, self-contained, and solitary
as an oyster.

Absently caressing the night-blue cover of the strange spellbook he had
acquired in Xak Tsaroth, Raistlin stared into the street. His golden eyes with
their dark, hourglass-shaped pupils glittered coldly.

Although Laurana disliked speaking to the mage, she had to know! What had he
meant-along farewell?

"What do you see when you look far away like that?" she asked softly, sitting
down next to him, feeling a sudden weakness of fear sweep over her.

"What do I see?" he repeated softly. There was great pain and sadness in his
voice, not the bitterness she was accustomed to hearing. "I see time as it
affects all things. Human flesh withers and dies before my eyes. Flowers
bloom, only to fade. Trees drop green leaves, never to regain them. In my
sight, it is always winter, always night."

"And-this was done to you in the Towers of High Sorcery?" Laurana asked;
shocked beyond measure. "Why? To what end?"

Raistlin smiled his rare and twisted smile. "To remind me of my own mortality.
To teach me compassion." His voice sank. "I was proud and arrogant in my
youth. The youngest to take the Test, I was going to show them all!" His frail
fist clenched. "Oh, I showed them. They shattered my body and devoured my mind
until by the end I was capable of-" He stopped abruptly, his eyes shifting to
Caramon.

"Of what?" Laurana asked, fearing to know, yet fascinated.
"Nothing," Raistlin whispered, lowering his eyes. "I am forbidden to speak of
it."

Laurana saw his hands tremble. Sweat beaded on his forehead. His breath
wheezed and he began to cough. Feeling guilty for having inadvertently caused
such anguish, she flushed and shank her head, biting her lip. "I-I'm sorry to
have given you pain. I didn't mean to." Confused, she looked dawn, letting her
hair fall forward to hide her face-a girlish habit.

Raistlin leaned toward almost unconsciously, his hand stretching out,
trembling, to touch the wondrous hair that seemed possessed of a life of its
own, so vibrant and luxuriant was it. Then, seeing before his eyes his own
dying flesh, he withdrew his hand quickly and sank back in his chair, a bitter
smile on his lips. For what Laurana did not know, could not know, was that, in
looking at her, Raistlin saw the only beauty he would ever see in his
lifetime, Young, by elven standards, she was untouched by death or decay, even
in the mage's cursed vision.

Laurana saw nothing of this. She was aware only that he moved slightly. She
almost got up and left, but she felt drawn to him now, and he still had not
answered her question, "I-I meant-can you see the future? Tanis told me your
mother was-what do they call it-prescient? I know that Tanis comes to you for
advice. . . ."

Raistlin regarded Laurana thoughtfully. "The half-elf comes to me for advice,
not because I can see the future. I can't. I am no seer. He comes because I am
able to think, which is something most of these other fools seem incapable of
doing:"

"But-what you said. Some of us may not see each other again." Laurana looked
up at him earnestly. "You must have foreseen something! What-I must know! Was
it... Tanis?"

Raistlin pondered. When he spoke, it was more to himself thorn to Laurana. "I
don't know," he whispered. "I don't even know why I said that. It's just
that-for an instant-I knew-" He seemed to struggle to remember, then suddenly
shrugged.

"Knew what?" Laurana persisted.

"Nothing. My overwrought imagination as the knight would say if he were here.
So Tanis told you about my mother;" he said, changing the subject abruptly.

Laurana, disappointed but hoping to find out more if she kept talking to him,
nodded her head. "He said she had the gift of foresight. She could look into
the future and see images of what would come to pass."

"That is true," Raistlin whispered, then smiled sardonically. "Much good it
did her. The first man she married was a handsome warrior fram the northland.
Their passion died within months, and after that they made life miserable for
each other. My mother was fragile of health and given to slipping into strange
trances from which she might not wake for hours. They were poor, living off
what her husband could earn with his sword. Though he was clearly of noble
blood, he never spoke of his family. I do not believe he even told her his
real name."

Raistlin's eyes narrowed, "He told Kitiara, though. I'm sure of it. That is
why she traveled north, to find his family."

"Kitiara... " Laurana said in a strained voice. She touched the name as one
touches an aching tooth, eager to understand more of this human woman Tanis
loved. "Then, that man-the noble warrior-was Kitiara's father?" she said in a
husky voice.

Raistlin regarded her with a penetrating gaze. "Yes," he whispered. "She is my
elder half-sister. Older than Caramon and I by about eight years. She is very
much like her father, I believe. As beautiful as he was handsome. Resolute and
impetuous, warlike, strong and fearless. Her father taught her the only thing
he knew-the art of warfare. He began going on longer and longer trips, and one
day vanished completely. My mother convinced the Highseekers to declare him
legally dead. She then remarried the man who became our father. He was a
simple man, a woodcutter by trade. Once again, her farsight did not serve
her."

'"Why" Laurana asked gently, caught up in the story, amazed that the usually
taciturn sage was so voluble, not knowing that he was drawing more out of her
simply by watching her expressive face than he was giving in return.

"The birth of my brother and I for one thing," Raistlin said. Then, overcome
by a fit of coughing, he stopped talking and motioned to his brother,
"Caramon! It is time for my drink." he said in the hissing, whisper that
pierced through the loudest talk. "Or have you forgotten me in the pleasure of
other company?"
Caramon fell silent in mid-laugh "No, Raist," he said guiltily, hurriedly
rising from his seat to hang a kettle of water over the fire. Tika, subdued,
lowered her head, unwilling to meet the mage's gaze.

After staring at her a moment Raistlin turned back to Laurana, who had watched
all this with a cold feeling in the pit of her stomach. He began to speak
again as if there had been no interruption. "My mother never really recovered
from the childbirth. The midwife gave me up for dead, and I would have died,
too, if it hadn't been for Kitiara. Her first battle, she used to say, was
against death with me as the prize. She raised us. My mother was incapable of
taking care of children, and my father was forced to work day and night simply
to keep us fed. He died in an accident when Caramon and I were in our teens.
My mother went into one of her trances that day"-Raistlin's voice dropped-"and
never came out. She died of starvation."

"How awful!" Laurana murmured, shivering.

Raistlin did not speak for long moments; his strange eyes staring out into the
chill, gray winter sky. Then his mouth twisted. "It taught me a valuable
lesson-learn to control the power. Never let it control you!"

Laurana did not seem to have heard him. Her hands in her lap twisted
nervously. This was the perfect opportunity to ask the questions she longed to
ask, but it would mean giving up a part of her inner self to this man she
feared and distrusted. But her curiosity-and her love-were ton great. She
never realized she was falling into a cunningly baited trap. For Raistlin
delighted in discovering the secrets of people's souls, knowing he might find
them useful.

"What did you do then"she asked, swallowing. "Did Kitiara..." Trying to appear
natural, she stumbled aver the name and flushed in embarrassment.

Raistlin watched Laurana's inner struggle with interest. "Kitiara was gone by
then." he answered. "She left home when she was fifteen, earning her living by
her sword. She is an expert-so Caramon tells me-and had no trouble finding
mercenary work. Oh, she returned every so often, to see how we were getting
along. When we were older, and more skilled, she took us with her. That was
where Caramon and I learned to fight together-I using my magic, my brother his
sword. Then; after she met Tanis"- Raistlin's eyes glittered at Laurana's
discomfiture-"she traveled with us more often."

"Traveled with whom? Where did you go?"

"There was Sturm Brightblade, already dreaming of knighthood, the kender,
Tanis, Caramon, and I. We traveled with Flint, before he retired from
metalsmithing. The roads grew so dangerous that Flint gave up traveling. And,
by this time, we had all learned as much as we could from our friends. We were
growing restless. It was time to separate, Tanis said"

"And you did as he said? He was your leader, even then?" She looked back to
remember him as she had known him before he left Qualinost, beardless and
lacking the lines of care and worry she saw now on his face. But even then he
was withdrawn and brooding, tormented by his feelings of belonging to lath
races-and to neither. She hadn't understood him then. Only now, after living
in a world of humans, was she beginning to.

"He has the qualities we are told are essential for leadership, He is
quick-thinking, intelligent, creative. But most of us possess these-in greater
or lesser degree. Why do the others follow Tanis? Sturm is off noble blood,
member of an order whose rants go back to ancient times. Why does he obey a
bastard half-elf? And Riverwind? He distrusts all who are not human and half
who are. Yet he and Goldmoon both would follow Tanis to the Abyss and back.
Why?"

"I have wondered," Laurana began, "and I think-'

But Raistlin, ignoring her, answered his own   question. "Tanis listens to his
feelings. He does not suppress them, as does   the knight, or hide them, as does
the Plainsman. Tanis realizes that sometimes   a leather must think with his
heart and not his head." Raistlin glanced at   her- "Remember that."

Laurana blinked, confused for a moment, then, sensing a tone of superiority in
the mage which irritated her, she said loftily, 'I native you leave out
yourself. If you are as intelligent and powerful as you claim, why do you
follow Tanis?"

Raistlin's hourglass eyes were dark and hooded. He stopped talking as Caramon
brought this twin a cup and carefully poured water from the kettle. The
warrior glanced at Laurana, his face dark, embarrassed and uncomfortable as
always whenever his brother went on like this.

Raistlin did not seem to notice. Pulling a pouch from his pack, he sprinkled
some green leaves into the hot water. A pungent, acrid smell filled the room.
"I do not follow him." The young mage looked up at Laurana. "For the time
being, Tanis and I simply happen to be traveling in the same direction."

"The Knights of Solamnia are not welcome in our city." The Lord said sternly,
his face serious. His dark gaze swept the rest of the company. "Nor are elves,
kender, or dwarves, or those who travel in their company. I understand you
also have a magic-user with you, one who wears the red robes. You wear armor.
Your weapons are blood-stained and come quickly and readily to your hands.
Obviously you are skilled warriors."

"Mercenaries, undoubtedly, milord." the constable said.

"We are not mercenaries," Sturm said, coming to stand before the bench, his
bearing proud and noble. "We come out of the northern Plains of Abanasinia. We
freed eight hundred men, women, and children from the Dragon Highlord,
Verminaard, in Pax Tharkas. Fleeing the wrath of the dragon armies, we left
the people hidden in a valley in the mountains and traveled south, hoping to
find ships in the legendary city of Tarsis. We did not know it was landlocked,
or we would not have bothered."

The Lard frowned. "You say you came from the north? That is impossible. No one
has ever come safely through the mountain kingdom of the dwarves in
Thorbardin."

"If you know ought of the Knights of Solamnia, you know we would die sooner
than tell a lie-even to our enemies." Sturm said. "We entered the dwarven
kingdom and won safe passage by finding and restoring to them the lost Hammer
of Kharas."

The Lord shifted uncomfortably, glancing at the draconian who sat behind him.
"I do know somewhat of the knights," he said reluctantly. "And therefore I
must believe your story, though it sounds more a child's bedtime tale than-"

Suddenly the doors banged open and two guards strode in, roughly dragging a
prisoner between them. They thrust the companions, aside as they flung their
prisoner to the floor. The prisoner was a woman. Heavily veiled, she was
dressed in long skirts and a heavy cape. She lay for a moment on the floor, as
if too tired or defeated to rise. Then, seeming to make a supreme effort of
will, she started to push herself up. Obviously no one was going to assist
her. The Lord stared at her, his face grim and scowling. The draconian behind
him had risen to its feet and was looking down at her with interest. The woman
struggled, entangled in her cape and her long, flowing skirts.

Then Sturm was at her side.

The knight had watched in horror, appalled at this callous treatment of a
woman. He glanced at Tanis, saw the evercautious half-elf shake his head, but
the sight of the woman making a gallant effort to rise proved too much for the
knight. He took a step forward, and found a hauberk thrust in front of him.

"Kill me if you will," the knight said to the guard, "but, I am going to the
aid of the lady."

The guard blinked and stepped back, his eyes looking up at the Lord for
orders. The Lord shook his head slightly. Tanis, watching closely, held his
breath. Then he thought he saw the Lord smile, quickly covering it with his
hand.

"My lady, allow me to assist you," Sturm said with the courtly, old-fashioned
politeness long lost in the world. His strong hands gently raised her to her
feet.

"You had better leave me, sir knight,"' the woman said, her words barely
audible from behind her veil. But at the sound of her voice, Tanis. and
Gilthanas gasped softly; glancing at each other. "You do not know what you
do." she said. "You risk your life-"

"It is my privilege to do so," Sturm said, bowing. Then he stood near her
protectively, his eyes on the guards.

"She is Silvanesti elven!" Gilthanas whispered to Tanis. "Does Sturm know?"

"Of course not." Tanis said softly. "How could he? I barely recognised her
accent myself."

"What could she be doing here? Silvanesti is far away-"

"A-" Tanis began, but one of the guards shoved him in the back. He fell silent
just as the Lard started to speak.

"Lady Alhana," he said in a cold voice, "you were warned to leave this city. I
was merciful last time you came before me because you were on a diplomatic
mission from your people, and protocol is still honored in Tarsis. I told you
then, however, you could expect no help from us and gave you twentyfour hours
to depart. Now I find you still here." He looked over at the guards. "What is
the charge?"

"Trying to buy mercenaries, milord," the constable replied. "She was picked up
in an inn along the Old Waterfront, milord." The constable gave Sturm a
scathing glance. "It was a good thing she didn't meet up with this lot. Of
course, no one in Tarsis would aid an elf."

"Alhana." Tanis muttered to himself. He edged over to Gilthanas. "Why is that
name familiar?"

"Have you been gone from your people so long you do not recognize the name?"
the elf answered softly in elven. "There was only one among our Silvanesti
cousins railed Alhana, Alhana Starbreeze, daughter of the Speaker of the
Stars, princess of her people, ruler when her father dies, far she has no
brothers."

"Alhana!" Tanis said, memories coming back to him. The elven people were split
hundreds of years before, when Kith-Kanan led many of the elves to the land of
Qualinesti following the bitter Kinslayer wars. But the elven leaders still
kept in contact in the mysterious manner of the elflords who, it is said, can
read messages in the wind and speak the language of the silver moon. Now he
remembered Alhana-of all elf maidens reputed to be the most beautiful, and
distant as the silver moon that shone on her birth.

The draconian leaned down to confer with the Lard. Tanis saw the man's face
darken, and it seemed as if he was about to disagree, then he bit his lip and,
sighing, nodded his head. The draconian melted back into the shadows once
more.

"You are under arrest, Lady Alhana." the Lord said heavily. Sturm took a step
nearer the woman as the guards closed in around her. Sturm threw back his head
and cast them all a warning glance. So confident and noble did he appear, even
unarmed, that the guards hesitated. Still, their Lord had given them an order.
"You better do something." Flint growled. "I'm all for chivalry, but there's a
time and a place and this isn't either!"

"Have you got any suggestions?" Tanis snapped.

 Flint didn't answer. There wasn't a damn thing any of them could do and they
knew it. Sturm would die; before one of those guards laid a hand on the woman
again, even though he had no idea who this woman was. It didn't matter.
Feeling himself torn with frustration and admiration for his friend, Tanis
gauged the distance between himself and the nearest guard, knowing he could
put at least one out of action. He saw Gilthanas close his eyes, his lips
moving. The elf was a magic-user, though he rarely treated it seriously.
Seeing the look on Tanis's face, Flint heaved a sigh and turned toward another
guard, lowering his helmeted head like a battering ram.

Then suddenly the Lord spoke, his voice grating. "Hold, knight!" he said with
the authority that had been bred in him for generations. Sturm, recognizing
this, relaxed, and Tanis breathed a sigh of relief. "I will not have blood
shed in this Council chamber. The lady has disobeyed a law of the land, laws
which, in days gone by, you sir knight, were sworn to uphold. But, I agree,
there is no reason to treat her disrespectfully. Guards, you will escort the
lady to prison but with the same courtesy you show me. And you, sir knight,
will accompany her, since you are so interested in her welfare."

Tanis nudged Gilthanas who came out of his trance with a start. "Truly, as
Sturm said, this Lord comes from a noble and honorable line," Tanis whispered.

"I don't see what you're so pleased about, Half-elf." Flint grunted,
overhearing them. "First the kender gets us charged with inciting a riot, then
he disappears. Now the knight gets us thrown into prison. Next time, remind me
to stick with the mage. I know he's crazed!"

As the guards started to herd their prisoners away from the bench, Alhana
appeared to be hunting for something within the falls of her long skirt.

"I beg a favor, sir knight," she said to Sturm. "I seem to have dropped
something. A trifle but precious. Could you look-"

Sturm knelt swiftly and immediately saw the object where it lay, sparkling, on
the floor, hidden by the folds of her dress. It was a pin, shaped like a star,
glittering with diamonds. He drew in his breath. A trifle! Its value must be
incalculable. No wonder she did not want it found by these worthless guards.
Quickly he wrapped his fingers around it, then feigned to look about. Finally,
still kneeling, he looked up at the woman.

Sturm caught his breath as the woman removed the hood of her cloak and drew
the veil from her face. For the first time, human eyes looked upon the face of
Alhana Starbreeze.

Muralasa, the elves called her-Princess of the Night. Her hair, black and soft
as the night wind, was held in place by a net as fine as cobweb, twinkling
with tiny jewels like stars. Her skin was the pale hue of the silver moon, her
eyes the deep, dark purple of the night sky and her lips the color of the red
moon's shadows.

The knight's first thought was to give thanks to Paladine that he was already
on his knees. His second was that death would be a paltry price to pay to
serve her, and his third that he must say something, but he seemed to have
forgotten the words of any known language.

"Thank you for searching, noble knight." Alhana said softly, staring intently
into Sturm's eyes. "As I said, it was a trifle. Please rise. I am very weary
and, since it seems we are going to the same place, you could do me a great
favor by giving me your assistance."

"I am yours to command," Sturm said fervently, and he rose to his feet,
swiftly tucking the jewel inside his belt. He held out his arm, and Alhana put
her slender, white band on his forearm. His arm trembled at her touch.

It seemed to the knight as if a cloud had covered the light of the stars when
she veiled her face again. Sturm saw Tanis fall into line behind them, but so
enraptured was the knight with the beautiful face burning in his memory that
he stared straight at the half-elf without a flicker of recognition.

Tanis had seen Alhana's face and felt his own heart stir with her beauty. But
he had seen Sturm's face as well. He had seen that beauty enter the knight's
heart, doing more damage than a goblin's poisoned arrowtip. For this love must
turn to poison, he knew. The Silvanesti were a proud and haughty race. Fearing
contamination and the lass of their way of life, they refused to have even the
slightest contact with humans. Thus the Kinslayer wars had been fought.

No, thought Tanis sadly; the silver moon itself was riot higher or farther out
of Sturm's reach. The half-elf sighed. This was all they needed.


Chapter 6
Knights of Solamnia.
Tasslehoff's glasses of true seeing.

As the guards led the prisoners from the Hall of Justice they passed two
figures standing outside in the shadows. Both were so swathed in clothing it
was difficult to tell to what race they belonged. Hoods covered their heads,
their faces were wrapped in cloth. Long robes shrouded their bodies. Even
their hands were wrapped in strips of white, like bandages. They spoke
together in low tones.

"See!" one said in great excitement. "-there they are. They match the
descriptions"

"Not all of them." said the other dubiously.

"But the half-elf, the dwarf, the knight! I tell you, it is them! And I know
where the others are," the figure added smugly. "I questioned one of the
guards."

The other, taller figure considered, watching the group being led off down the
street. "You are right. We should report this to the Highlord at once." The
shrouded figure turned, then stopped as it saw the other hesitate. "What are
you waiting for?"

"But shouldn't one of us follow? Look at those puny guards. You know the
prisoners will try and escape."

The other laughed unpleasantly. "Of course they'll escape. And we know where
they'll go-to rejoin their friends." The shrouded figure squinted up at the
afternoon sun. "Besides, in a few hours it won't make any difference." The
tall figure strode away, the shorter hurrying after.
It was snowing when the companions left the Hall of Justice. This time, the
constable knew better than to march his prisoners through the main city
streets. He led them into a dark and gloomy alleyway that ran behind the Hall
of Justice.

Tanis and Sturm were just exchanging glances, and Gilthanas and Flint were
just tensing to attack when the half-elf saw the shadows in the alley begin to
move. Three hooded and cloaked figures leaped out in front of the guards,
their steel blades gleaming in the bright sunlight.

The constable put his whistle to his lips, but he never made a sound. One of
the figures knocked him unconscious with the hilt of his sword, while the
other two rushed the guards, who immediately fled. The hooded figures faced
the companions.

"Who are you?" Tanis asked, astounded at his sudden freedom. The hooded and
cloaked figures reminded him of the hooded draconians they had fought outside
of Solace. Sturm pulled Alhana behind him.

"Have we escaped one danger only to find a worse?" Tanis demanded. "Unmask
yourselves!"

But one of the hooded men turned to Sturm, his hands raised in the air. "Oth
Tsarthon a Paran" he said.

Sturm gasped. "Est Tsarthai en Paranaith" he replied, then he turned to Tanis.
"Knights of Solamnia," he said, gesturing at the three men.

"Knights?" Tanis asked in astonishment. "Why-"

"There is no time for explanation, Sturm Brightblade." one of the knights said
in Common, his accent thick. "The guards will return soon. Come with us."

"Not so fast!" Flint growled, his feet planted firmly in the street, his hands
breaking off the handle of a hauberk so that it suited his short stature.
"You'll find time for explanations or I'm not going! How'd you know the
knight's name and how came you to be waiting for us?"

"Oh, just run him through!" sang a shrill voice out of the shadows. "Leave his
body to feed the crows. Not that they'll bother; there's few in this world who
can stomach dwarf-"

"Satisfied?" Tanis turned to Flint, who was red-faced with rage.

"Someday," vowed the dwarf, "I'll kill that kender."

Whistles sounded from the street behind them. With no more hesitation, the
companions followed the knights through twisting, rat-infested alleys. Saying
he had business to attend to, Tas disappeared before Tanis could catch hold of
him. The half-elf noticed that the knights didn't seem at all surprised by
this, nor did they try to stop Tas. They refused, however, to answer any
questions, just kept hurrying the group along until they entered the ruins-the
old city of Tarsus the Beautiful.

Here the knights stopped. They had brought the companions to a part of the
city where no one ever came now. The streets were broken and empty, reminding
Tanis strongly of the ancient city of Xak Tsaroth. Taking Sturm by the arm,
the knights led him a short distance from his friends and began to confer in
Solamnic, leaving the others to rest.
Tanis, leaning against a building, looked around with interest. What remained
standing of the buildings on this street was impressive, much more beautiful
than the modern city. He saw that Tarsis the Beautiful must have deserved its
name before the Cataclysm. Now nothing but huge blocks of granite lay tumbled
about. Vast courtyards were choked and overgrown with weeds turned brown by
the biting winter wands.

He walked over to sit down on a bench with Gilthanas, who was talking to
Alhana. The elflord introduced him.

"Alhana Starbreeze, Tanis Half-Elven" Gilthanas said. "Tanis lived among the
Qualinesti for many years. He is the son of my uncle's wife."

Alhana drew back the veil from her face and regarded Tanis coldly. Son of my
uncle's wife, was a polite way of saying Tanis was illegitimate, otherwise
Gilthanas world have introduced him as the "son of my uncle."The half-elf
flushed, the old pain returning forcibly, hurting as much now as it had fifty
years before. He wondered if he would ever be free of it.

Scratching his beard, Tanis said harshly, "My mother was raped by human
warriors during years of darkness following the Cataclysm. The Speaker kindly
took me in following her death and raised me as his own."

Alhana's dark eyes grew darker until they were pools of night. She raised her
eyebrows. "Do you see a need to apologize for your heritage?" she asked in a
chill voice.

"N-no..." Tanis stammered, his face burning. "I-"

"Then do not," she said, and she turned away from him to Gilthanas. "You asked
why I came to Tarsis! I came seeking aid. I must return to Silvanesti to
search for my father."

"Return to Silvanesti?" Gilthanas repeated. "We-my people did not know the
Silvanesti elves had left their ancient homeland. No wonder we lost contact-"

"Yes." Alhana's voice grew sad. "The evil that forced you, our cousins, to
leave Qualinesti came to us as well." She bowed her head, then looked up, her
own voice soft and low. "Long we fought this evil. But in the end we were
forced to flee or perish utterly. My father sent the people, under my
leadership, to Southern Ergoth. He stayed in Silvanesti to fight the evil
alone. I opposed this decision, but he said he had the power to prevent the
evil from destroying our homeland. With a heavy heart, I led my people to
safety and there they remain. But I came back to seek my father, for the days
have been long and we have heard no word of him."

"But had you no warriors, lady, to accompany you on such a dangerous journey?"
Tanis asked.

Alhana, turning, glanced at Tanis as if amazed that he had intruded upon their
conversation. At first she seemed .about to refuse to answer him, then-looking
-longer at his face-she changed her mind. "There were many warriors who
offered to escort me." she said proudly. "But when I said I led my people to
safety, I spoke rashly. Safety no longer exists in this world. The warriors
stayed behind to guard the people. I came to Tarsis hoping to find warriors to
travel into Silvanesti with me. I presented myself to the Lord and the
Council, as protocol demands-"

Tanis shook his head, frowning darkly. "That was stupid," he said bluntly.
"You should have known how they feel about elves-even before the draconians
came! You were damn lucky they only ordered you tossed out of the city."

Alhana's pale face became-if possible-paler. Her dark eyes glittered. "I did
as protocol demands." she replied, too well bred to show her anger beyond the
cool tones of her voice. "To do otherwise would have been to come as a
barbarian. When the Lord refused to aid me, I told him I intended to seek help
on my own. To do less would have not been honorable."

Flint, who had been able to follow only bits and pieces of the conversation in
elven, nudged Tanis. "She and the knight will get on perfectly." He snorted.
"Unless their honor gets them killed first." Before Tanis could reply, Sturm
rejoined the group.

"Tanis," Sturm said in excitement, "the knights have found the ancient
library! That's why they're here. They discovered records in Palanthas saying
that in ancient times knowledge of dragons was kept in the library here, at
Tarsis. The Knights Council sent them to see if the library still survived."

Sturm gestured far the knights to come forward. "This is Brian Dormer, Knight
of the Sword." he said, "Aran Tallbow, Knight of the Crown, and Derek
Crownguard, Knight of the Rose." The knights bowed.

"And this is Tanis Half -Elven, our leader." Sturm said. The half-elf saw
Alhana start and look at him in wonder, glancing at Sturm to see if she had
heard correctly.

Sturm introduced Gilthanas and Flint, then he turned to Alhana. "Lady Alhana."
he begin, then stopped, embarrassed, realizing he knew nothing about her.

"Alhana Starbreeze," Gilthanas finished. "Daughter of the Speaker of the
Stars. Princess of the Silvanesti elves."

The knights bowed again, lower this time.

"Accept my heartfelt gratitude foe rescuing me." Alhana said coolly Her gaze
encompassed! all the group but lingered longest on Sturm. Then she turned to
Derek whom she knew from his Order of the Rose to be the leader. "Have you
discovered the records the Council sent you to find?"

As she spoke, Tanis examined the knights, now unhooded, with interest. He,
too, knew enough to know that the Knights Council-the ruling body of the
Solamnia knights-had sent the best. In particular he studied Derek, the elder
and the highest in rank. Few knights attained the Order of the Rose. The tests
were dangerous and difficult, and only knights of pure bloodline could belong.

"We have found a book, my lady," Derek said, "written in an ancient language
we could not understand. There were pictures of dragons, however, so we were
planning to copy it and return to Sancrist where, we hoped, scholars would be
able to translate it. But instead we have found one who can read it. The
kender-"

"Tasslehoff!" Flint exploded.

Tanis's mouth gaped open. "Tasslehoff?" he repeated incredulously. "He can
barely read Common. He doesn't know any ancient languages. The only one among
us who might possibly be able to translate an ancient language is Raistlin."

Derek shrugged. "The kender has a pair of glasses he says are 'magical glasses
of true seeing'. He put them on and he has been able to read the book. It
says-"

"I can imagine what it says" Tanis snapped. "Stories about automatons and
magic rings of teleporting and plants that live off air. Where is he? I'm
going to, have a little talk with Tasslehoff Burrfoot."

"Magical Glasses of True Seeing" Flint grumbled. "And I'm a gully dwarf!"

The companions entered a shattered building. Clumping aver rubble, they
followed Derek's lead through a low archway. The smell of must and mildew was
strong. The darkness was intense after the brightness of the afternoon sun
outside and for a moment, everyone was blinded. Then Derek lit a torch, and
they saw narrow winding stairs leading down into more darkness.

"The library was built below ground." Derek explained. "Probably the only
reason it survived the Cataclysm so well ."

The companions descended the stairs rapidly and soon found themselves inside a
huge. room. Tanis, caught his breath and even Alhana's eyes widened in the
flickering torchlight.

The gigantic room was filled from ceiling to floor with tall, wooden shelves,
stretching as far as the eye could see. On the shelves were books. Books of
all kinds. Books with leather bindings, books bound in wood, books bound in
what looked like leaves from some exotic tree. Many were not bound at all but
were simply sheaves of parchment, held together with black ribbons. Several
shelves had toppled over, spilling the books to the floor until it was
ankle-deep in parchment.

"There must be thousands!" Tanis said in awe. "How did you ever find one among
these?"

Derek shook his head. "It was not easy." he said. "Long days we have spent
down here, searching. When we discovered it at last, we felt more despair than
triumph, for it was obvious that the book cannot be moved. Even as we touched
the pages, they crumbled to dust. We feared we would spend long, weary hours
copying it. But the kender-"

"Right, the kender," Tanis said grimly. "Where is he?"

"Over here!" piped a shrill voice.

Tanis peered through the dimly lit room to see a candle burning on a table.
Tasslehoff, seated an a high. wooden chair, was bent over a thick book. As the
-companions neared him, they could see a pair of small glasses perched am his
nose.

"All right, Tas," Tanis said. "Where did you get them?"

"Get what?" the kender asked innocently. He saw Tanis's eyes narrow and put
his hand to the small wire-rimmed glasses. "Oh, uh, these? I had them in a
pouch... and, well, if you must know, I found them in the dwarven kingdom-"

Flint, groaned and put his hand over his face.

"They were just lying on a table" Tas protested, seeing Tanis scowl. "Honest!
There was no one around. I thought perhaps someone misplaced them. I any took
them for safekeeping. Good thing, too. Some thief might have come along and
stolen them, and they're very valuable! I meant to return them, but after that
we were so busy what with fighting dark dwarves and draconians and finding the
Hammer, and I-sort of I had them. When I remembered them, we were miles away
from the dwarves, on our way to Tarsis, and I didn't think you'd want me to go
back, just to return them, so-'

"What do they do?" Tanis interrupted the kender knowing they'd be here until
the day after tomorrow if he didn't.
"They're wonderful." Tas said hastily, relieved that Tanis wasn't going to
yell at him. "I left them lying on a map one day." Tas patted his mapcase. "I
looked down and what do you suppose? I could read the writing on the map
through the glasses! Now, that doesn't sound very wonderful;" Tas said
hurriedly, seeing Tanis start to frown again, "but this was a map written in a
language I'd never been able to understand before. So I tried them on all my
maps and I could read them, Tanis! Every one! Even the real, real old ones!"

"And you never mentioned this to us?" Sturm glared at Tas.

"Well, the subject just never came up." Tas said apologetically. "Now, if you
had asked me directly-'Tasslehoif, do you have a pair of magical seeing
glasses?'-I would have told you the truth straight off. But you never did,
Sturm Brightblade, so don't look at me like that. Anyway, I can read this old
book. Let me tell you what I-"

"How do you know they're magic and not just some mechanical device of the
dwarves?" Tanis asked, sensing that Tas was hiding something.

Tas gulped. He had been hoping Tanis wouldn't ask him that question.

"Uh;" Tas stammered, "I-I guess I did sort of, happened to, uh, mention them
to Raistlin one night when you were all busy doing something else. He told me
they might be magic. To find out, he said one of those weird spells of his and
they - uh - to glow. That meant they were enchanted. He asked me what they did
and I demonstrated and he said they were 'glasses of true seeing' The dwarves
magic-users of old made them to read books written in other languages and-"
Tas stopped.

"And?" Tanis pursued.

"And-uh-magic spellbooks." Tas's voice was a whisper.

"And what else did Raistlin say?"

"That if I touched his spellbooks or even looked at them sideways, he'd turn
me into a cricket and s-swallow m-me whole," Tasslehoff stammered. He looked
up at Tanis with wide eyes. "I believed him; too."

Tanis shook his head. Trust Raistlin to come up with a threat awful enough to
quench the curiosity of a kender. "Anything else?" he asked.

"No, Tanis," Tas said innocently. Actually Raistlin had mentioned something
else about the glasses, but Tas hadn't been able to understand it very well.
Something about the glasses seeing things too truly, which didn't make any
sense, so he figured it probably wasn't worth bringing up. Besides, Tanis was
mad enough already.

"Well, what have you discovered?" Tanis asked grudgingly.

"Oh, Tanis, it's so interesting!" Tas said, thankful the ordeal was over. He
carefully turned a page and, even as he did so, it split and cracked beneath
his small fingers. He shook his head sadly. "That happens almost every time.
But, you can see here"-the others leaned around to stare beneath the kender's
finger-"pictures of dragons. Blue dragons, red dragons, black dragons, green
dragons. I didn't know there were so many. Now, see this thing?" He turned
another page. "Oops. Well, you can't see it now, but it was a huge ball of
glass. And-so the book says-if you have one of these glass balls, you can gain
control over the dragons and they'll do what you say!"

"Glass ball!" Flint sniffed, then sneezed. "Don't believe him, Tanis. I think
the only thing those glasses have done is magnify his tall stories."

"I am so telling the truth!" Tas said indignantly. "They're called dragon
orbs, and you can ask Raistlin about them! He must know because according to
this, they were made by the great wizards, long ago."

"I believe you;" Tanis said gravely, seeing that Tasslehoff was really upset.
"But I'm afraid it won't do us much good. They were probably all destroyed in
the Cataclysm and we wouldn't know where to look anyway-"

"Yes, we do," Tas said excitedly. "There's a list here, of where they were
kept. See-'He stopped, cocking his head. "Shhhh." he said, listening. The
others fell silent. For a moment they heard nothing, then their ears caught
what the kender's quicker hearing had already detected.

Tanis felt his hands grow cold; the dry, bitter taste of fear filled his
mouth. Now he could hear, in the distance, the sound of hundreds of hams
braying - horns all of them had heard before. The bellowing, brass horns that
heralded the approach of the draconian armies-and the approach of the dragons.

The horns of death.

Chapter 7
"-not destined to meet again in this world."

The companions had just reached the marketplace when the first flight of
dragons struck Tarsis.

The group had separated from the knights, not a pleasant parting. The knights
had tried to convince them to escape with them into the hills. When the
companions refused, Derek demanded that Tasslehoff accompany them, since the
kender alone knew the location of the dragon orbs. Tanis knew Tas would only
run away from the knights and was forced to refuse again.

"Bring the kender, Sturm, and come with us," Derek commanded, ignoring Tanis.

"I cannot, sir." Sturm replied, laying his hand on Tanis's arm. "He is my
leader, and my first loyalty is to my friends."

Derek's voice was cold with anger. "If that is your decision;" he answered, "I
cannot stop you. But this is a black mark against you, Sturm Brightblade.
Remember that you are not a knight. Not yet. Pray that I am not there when the
question of your knighthood comes before the Council."

Sturm became as pale as death. He cast a sideways glance at Tanis, who tried
to hide his astonishment at this startling news. But there was no time to
think about it. The sound of the horns, screaming discordantly on the chill
air, was coming closer and closer each second. The knights and the companions
parted; the knights heading for their camp in the hills, the companions
returning to town.

They found the towns people outside their houses, speculating on the strange
horn calls, which they had never heard before and did not understand. One
Tarsian alone heard and understood. The Lord in the council chamber rose to
his feet at the sound. Whirling, he turned upon the smug-looking draconian
seated in the shadows behind him.

"You said we would be spared!" the Lord said through clenched teeth. "We're
still negotiating-"

"The Dragon Highlord grew weary of negotiation." the draconian said, stifling
a yawn. "And the city will be spared-after it has been taught a lesson, of
course."

The Lord's head sank into his hands. The other council members, not fully
comprehending what was happening, stared at each other in horrified awareness
as they saw tears trickle through the Lord's fingers.

Outside, the red dragons were visible in the skies, hundreds of them. Flying
in regimented groups of three to five, their wings glistened flame red in the
setting sun. The people of Tarsis knew one thing and one thing only: death
flew overhead.

As the dragons swooped low, making their first passes over the town, the
dragonfear flowed from them, spreading panic more deadly than fire. The people
had one thought in their minds as the shadows of the wings blotted out the
dying light of day-escape.

But there was no escape.

After the first pass, knowing now that they would meet no resistance, the
dragons struck. One after the other, they circled, then dropped from the sky
like red-hot shot, their fiery breath engulfing building after building with
flame. The spreading fires created their own windstorms. Choking smoke filled
the street, turning twilight into midnight. Ash poured down like black rain.
Screams of terror changed to screams of agony as people died in the blazing
abyss that was Tarsis.

And as the dragons struck, a sea of fear-crazed humanity surged through the
flame-lit streets. Few had any clear idea of where they were going. Some
shouted they would be safe in the hills, others ran down by the old
waterfront, still others tried to reach the city gates. Above them flew the
dragons, burning at their discretion, killing at their leisure.

The human sea broke over Tanis and the companions, crushing them into the
street, swirling them apart, smashing them up against buildings. The smoke
choked them and stung their eyes, tears blinded them as they fought to control
the dragonfear that threatened to destroy their reason.

The heat was so intense that whole buildings blew apart. Tanis caught
Gilthanas as the elf was hurled into the side of a building. Holding onto him,
the half-elf could only watch helplessly as the rest of his friends were swept
away by the mob.

"Back to the Inn!" Tanis shouted. "Meet at the Inn!" But whether they heard
him or not, he could not say. He could only trust that they would all try to
head in that direction.

Sturm caught hold of Alhana in his strong arms, half-carrying, half-dragging
her through the death-filled streets. Peering through the ash, he tried to see
the others, but it was hopeless. And then began the most desperate battle he
had ever fought, striving to keep his feet and support Alhana as time and
again the dreadful waves of humanity broke over them.
Then Alhana was ripped from his arms by the shrieking mob, whose booted feet
trampled all that lived. Sturm flung himself into the crowd, shoving and
bashing with his armored arms and body, and caught Alhana's wrists. Deathly
pale, she was shaking with fright. She hung onto his hands with all her
strength, and finally he was able to pull her close. A shadow swept over them.
A dragon, screaming cruelly, bore down upon the street that heaved and surged
with men, women, and children. Sturm ducked into a doorway; dragging Alhana
with him, and shielded her with his body as the dragon swooped low overhead.
Flame filled the street; the screams of the dying were heart-rending.

"Don't look!" Sturm whispered to Alhana, pressing her against him, tears
streaming dawn his own face. The dragon passed, and suddenly the streets were
horrible, unbearably still. Nothing moved.

"Let's go, while we can." Sturm said, his voice shaking. Clinging to each
other, the two stumbled out of the doorway, their senses numbed, moving only
by instinct. Finally, sickened and dizzy from the smell of charred flesh and
smoke, they were forced to seek shelter in another doorway.

For a moment, they could do nothing but hold onto -each other, thankful for
the brief respite, yet haunted by the knowledge that in seconds they must
return to the deadly streets.

Alhana rested her head against Sturm's chest. The ancient, old-fashioned armor
felt cool against her skin. Its hard metal surface was reassuring, and beneath
it she could feel his heart beat, rapid, steady, and soothing, The arms that
held her were strong, hard, well-muscled. His hand stroked her black hair.

Alhana, chaste maiden of a stern and rigid people, had long known when, where,
and whom she would marry. He was an elflord, and it was a mark of their
understanding that-in all the years since this had been arranged-they had
never touched. He had stayed behind, with the people, while Alhana returned to
find her father. She had strayed into this world of humans, and her senses
reeled from the shock. She detested them, yet was fascinated by them. They
were so powerful, their emotions raw and untamed and just when she thought she
would hate and despise them forever, one stepped apart from the others.

Alhana looked up into Sturm's grieved face and saw etched there pride,
nobility, strict inflexible discipline constant striving for
perfection-perfection unattainable. And thus the deep sorrow in his eyes.
Alhana felt herself drain to this man -- this human. Yielding to his strength,
comforted by his presence, she felt a sweet, searing warmth. Steal, over her,
and suddenly she realized she was in more danger from this fire than from the
fire of a thousand dragons.

"We better go," Sturm whispered gently, but to his amazement Alhana pushed
herself away from him.

"Here we part." she said, her voice cold as the night wind. "I must return to
my lodging. Thank you for escorting me."

"What?" Sturm said. "Go by yourself? That's madness." He reached out and
gripped her arm. "I cannot allow-" The wrong thing to do, he realized, feeling
her stiffen. She did not move but simply stared at him imperiously until he
released her.

"I have friends of my own;" she said, "as you do. Your loyalty is to them. My
loyalty is to mine. We must go our separate ways." Her voice faltered at the
look of intense pain on Sturm's face, still wet with tears. For a moment
Alhana could not bear it and wondered if she would have the strength to
continue. Then she thought of her people-depending on her. She found the
strength. "I thank you for your kindness and your help, but now I must go,
while the streets are empty."

Sturm stared at her, hurt and puzzled. Then his face hardened. "I was happy to
be of service, Lady Alhana. But you are still in danger. Allow me to take you
to your lodgings, then I will trouble you no more."

"That is quite impossible." Alhana said, gritting her teeth to keep her jaw
set firmly. "My lodgings are not far, and my friends wait for me. We have a
way out of the city. Forgive me far not taking you, but I am never certain
about trusting humans."

Sturm's brown eyes flashed- Alhana, standing close, could feel his body
tremble. Once more she nearly lost her resolve.

"I know where you are staying," she said, swallowing. "The Red Dragon Inn.
Perhaps-if I find my friends-we could offer you help-"

"Do not concern yourself." Sturm's voice echoed her coldness. "And do not
thank me. I did nothing more than my Code required of me. Farewell," he said,
and started to walk away.

Then, remembering, he turned back. Drawing the sparkling diamond pin from his
belt, he placed it in Alhana's hand. "Here" he said. Looking into her dark
eyes, the suddenly saw the pain she tried to hide. His voice softened, though
he could not understand. "I am pleased you trusted me with this gem," he said
gently, "even for a few moments."

The elfmaid stared at the jewel for an instant, then she began to   shake. Her
eyes lifted to Sturm's eyes and she saw in them not scorn, as she   expected,
but compassion. Once more, she wondered at humans. Alhana dropped   her head,
unable to meet his gaze, and took his hand in hers. Then she laid   the jewel in
has palm and closed his fingers over it.

"Keep this," she said softly. "When you look at it, think of Alhana Starbreeze
and know that, somewhere, she thinks of you."

Sudden tears flooded the knight's eyes. He bowed his head, unable to speak.
Then, kissing the gem, he placed it carefully back into his belt and he
reached out his hands, but Alhana drew back into the doorway, her pale face
averted.

"Please go." she said. Sturm stood for a moment, irresolute, but he could
not-in honor-refuse to obey her request. The knight turned and plunged back
into the nightmarish street.

Alhana watched him from the doorway for a moment, a protective shell hardening
around her. "Forgive me, Sturm." she whispered to herself. Then she stopped.
"No, do not forgive me." she said harshly. "Thank me."

Closing her eyes, she conjured up an image in her mind and sent a message
speeding to the outskirts of the city where her friends waited to carry her
from this world of humans. Receiving their telepathic answer in reply Alhana
sighed and began anxiously to scan the smoke-tilled skies, waiting.

"Ah;" said Raistlin calmly as the first horn calls shattered the stillness of
the afternoon, "I told you so."
Riverwind cast an irritated glance at the mage, even as he tried to think what
to do. It was all very well for Tanis to say protect the group from the town
guards, but to protect them from armies of draconians, from dragons!
Riverwind's dark eyes went aver the group. Tika rose to her feet, her hand on
her sword. The young girl was brave and steady, but unskilled. The Plainsman
could still see the scars on her hand where she had cut herself.

"What is it?" Elistan asked, looking bewildered.

"The Dragon Highlord, attacking the city." Riverwind answered harshly, trying
to think.

He heard a clanking sound. Caramon was getting up, the big warrior appearing
calm and unperturbed. Thank goodness for that. Even though Riverwind detested
Raistlin, he had to admit that the mage and his warrior brother combined steel
and magic effectively. Laurana, too, he saw, appeared cool and resolute, but
then she was an elf-Riverwind had never really learned to trust elves.

"Get out of the city, if we don't return," Tanis had told him. But Tanis
hadn't foreseen this! They would get out of the city only to meet the armies
of the Dragon Highlords on the Plains. Riverwind now had an excellent idea who
had been watching them as they traveled to this doomed place. He swore to
himself in his own language, then-even as the first dragons swept down over
the city-he felt Goldmoon's arm around him. Looking down, he saw her smile-the
smile of Chieftain's Daughter-and he saw the faith in her eyes. Faith in the
gods, and faith in him. He relaxed, his brief moment of panic gone.

A shock wave hit the building. They could hear the screams in the streets
below, the roaring whoosh of the fires.

"We've got to get off this floor, back to ground level," Riverwind said.
"Caramon, bring the knight's sword and the other weapons. If Tanis and the
others are-" he stepped. He had been about to say, "still alive," then saw
Laurana's Face. "if Tanis and the others escape, they'll return here. Well
wait for them."

"Excellent decision!" hissed the mage caustically. "Especially as we have
nowhere else to go!"

Riverwind ignored him. "Elistan take the others downstairs. Caramon and
Raistlin, stay with -me a moment." After they were gone, he said swiftly, "Our
best chance, the way I see it, is to stay inside, barricade ourselves in the
Inn. The streets will be deadly."

"How long do you think we can bald cut?" Caramon asked.

Riverwind shook his head. "Hours, maybe." he said briefly

The brothers looked at him, each -of them thinking about the tortured bodies
they had seen in the village of Que-shu, anb what they had heard about the
destruction of Solace.

"We cannot be taken alive." Raistlin whispered.

Riverwind took a deep breath. "We'll hold out as long as we can," he said, his
voice shaking slightly "but when we know we can last no longer-" He stopped,
unable to continue, his hand on his knife, thinking of what he must do.

"There will be no need for that," Raistlin said softly. "I have herbs. A tiny
bit in a glass of wine. Very quick, painless."
"Are you certain?" Riverwind asked.

"Trust me," Raistlin replied. "I am skilled in the art. The art of herb lore,"
he amended smoothly; seeing the Plainsman shudder.

"If I am alive," Riverwind said softly, "I will give her them-the drink
myself. If not-'

"I understand. You may trust me," the mage repeated.

"What about Laurana?" Caramon asked. "You know elves. She won't-"

"Leave it to me." Raistlin repeated softly.

The Plainsman stared at the mage, feeling horror creep over him. Raistlin
stood before him coolly, his arms folded in the sleeves of his robe, his hood
pulled up aver his head. Riverwind looked at his dagger, considering the
alternative. No, he couldn't do it. Not that way.

"Very well." he said, swallowing. He paused, dreading to go downstairs and
face the others. But the sounds of death in the street were growing louder.
Riverwind turned abruptly and left the brothers alone.

"I will die fighting." Caramon said to Raistlin, trying to speak in a
matter-of-fact tone. After the first few words, though, the big warrior's
voice broke. "Promise me, Raist, you'll take this stuff if I'm... not
there..."

"There will be no need." Raistlin said simply. "I have not the strength to
survive a battle of this magnitude. I will die within my magic."

Tanis and Gilthanas fought their way through the crowd, the stronger half-elf
holding onto the elf as they shoved and clawed and pushed through the panicked
masses. Time and again, they ducked for shelter from the dragons. Gilthanas
wrenched his knee, fell into a doorway, and was forced to limp in agony,
leaning on Tanks shoulder.

The half-elf breathed a prayer of thankfulness when he saw the Red Dragon Inn,
a prayer that changed to a curse when he saw the black reptilian forms surging
around the front. He dragged Gilthanas, who had been stumbling along blindly,
exhausted by pain, back into a recessed doorway.

"Gilthanas!" Tanis shouted. "The Inn! It's under attack!"

Gilthanas raised glassy eyes and stared uncomprehendingly. Then, apparently
understanding, he sighed and shook his head. "Laurana" he gasped, and he
pushed himself forward, trying to stagger out of the doorway. "We've got to
reach them." He collapsed in Tanis's arms.

"Stay here." the half-elf said, helping him sit down. "You're not capable of
moving. I'll try and get through. I'll go around the block and come in from
the back."

Tanis ran forward, darting in and out of doorways, hiding in the wreckage. He
was about a block from the Inn where he heard a hoarse shout. Turning to look,
he saw Flint gesturing wildly. Tanis dashed across the street.

"What is it?" he asked. "Why aren't you with the others-" The half-elf
stopped. "Oh, no!" he whispered.
The dwarf, his face smudged with ash and streaked with tears, knelt beside
Tasslehoff. The kender was pinned beneath a beam that had fallen in the
street. Tas's face, looking like the face of a wise child, was ashen, his skin
clammy.

"Blasted, rattle-brained kender," Flint moaned. "Had to go and let a house
fall on him." The dwarf's hands were torn and bleeding from trying to lift a
beam that would take three men or one Caramon to get off the kender. Tanis put
his hand to Tas's neck. The lifebeat was very weak.

"Stay with him!" Tanis said unnecessarily. "I'm going to the Inn. I'll bring
Caramon!"

Flint looked up at him grimly, then glanced over at the Inn. Both could hear
the yells of the draconians, see their weapons flash in the glare of the
firelight. Occasionally an unnatural light flared from the Inn-Raistlin's
magic. The dwarf shook his head. He knew Tanis was about as capable of
returning with Caramon as he was of flying.

But Flint managed to smile. "Sure, lad, I'll stay with him. Farewell, Tanis."

Tanis swallowed, tried to answer, then gave up and ran an down the street.

Raistlin, coughing until he could barely stand, wiped blood from his lips and
drew a small, black leather pouch from the innermost packets of his robes. He
had just one spell left and barely energy enough to cast it. Now, his hands
shaking with fatigue, he tried to scatter the contents of the little pouch
into a pitcher of wine he had ordered Caramon to bring him before the battle
started. His hand trembled violently, and his coughing spasms doubled him
over.

Then he felt another hand grasp his own. Looking up, he saw Laurana. She took
the pouch from his frail fingers. Her own hand was stained with the dark green
draconian blood.

'What's this?" she asked.

"Ingredients for a spell." The mage choked. "Pour it into the wine."

Laurana nodded and poured in the mixture as instructed. It vanished instantly.

"Don't drink it," the mage warned when the coughing spasm passed.

Laurana looked at him. "What is it?"

"A sleeping potion," Raistlin whispered, his eyes glittering.

Laurana smiled wryly. "You don't think we're going to be able to get to sleep
tonight?"

"Not that kind;" Raistlin answered, staring at her intently. "This one feigns
death. The heartbeat slows to almost nothing, the breathing nearly stops, the
skin grows cold and pale, the limbs stiffen."

Laurana's eyes. opened wide. "Why-" she began.

"To be used as a last resort. The enemy thinks you are dead, leaves you on the
field-if you are lucky. If not-"
"If not?" she prompted, her face pale.

"Well, a few have been known to waken on their own funeral pyres." Raistlin
said coolly. "I don't believe that is likely to happen to us, however."

Breathing more easily, he sat down, ducking involuntarily as a spent arrow
fluttered overhead and fell to the floor behind him. He saw Laurana's hand
tremble then and realized she was not as calm as she was forcing herself to
appear.

"Are you intending that we take this?" she asked.

"It will save us from being tortured by draconians."

"How do you know that?"

"Trust me," the mage said with a slight smile.

Laurana glanced at him and shivered. Absently, she wiped blood-stained fingers
on her leather armor. The blood did not come off, but she didn't notice. An
arrow thudded next to her. She didn't even start, just stared at it dully.

Caramon appeared, stumbling out of the smoke of the burning common room. He
was bleeding from an arrow wound in the shoulder, his own red blood mingling
oddly with the green blood of his enemy.

"They're breaking down the front door." he said, breathing heavily. "Riverwind
ordered us back here."

"Listen!" Raistlin warned. "That's not the only place they're breaking in!"
There was a splintering crash at the door leading from the kitchen to the back
alley.

Ready to defend themselves, Caramon and Laurana whirled gust as the door
shattered. A tall, dark figure entered.

"Tanis!" Laurana cried. Sheathing her weapon, she ran toward him.

"Laurana!" he breathed. Catching her in his arms, he held her close, nearly
sobbing in his relief. Then Caramon flung his huge arms around both of them.

"How is everyone?" Tanis asked, when he could talk.

"So far, so good." Caramon said, peering behind Tanis, His face fell when he
saw he was alone. "Where's-"

"Sturm's lost." Tanis said wearily. "Flint and Tas are across the street. The
kender's pinned under a beam. Gilthanas is about two blocks away. He's hurt;"
Tanis told Laurana, "not badly, but he couldn't make it any farther."

"Welcome, Tanis," Raistlin whispered, coughing. "You have come in time to die
with us."

Tanis looked at the pitcher, saw the black pouch lying near it, and stared at
Raistlin in sudden shock.

"No," he said firmly. "We're not going to die. At least not like th-" he broke
off abruptly. "Get everyone together."

Caramon lumbered off, yelling at the top of his lungs. Riverwind ran in from
the common room where he had been firing the enemy's arrows back at them, his
own having non cut long ago. The others followed him, smiling hopefully at
Tanis.

The sight of their faith in him infuriated the half-elf. Someday, he thought,
I'm going to fail them. Maybe I already have. He shook his head angrily.

"Listen!" he shouted, trying to make himself heard over the noise of the
draconians outside. "We can try and escape out the back! Only a small force is
attacking the Inn. The main part of the army isn't in the city yet."

"Somebody's after us." Raistlin murmured.

Tanis nodded. "So it would appear. We haven't much time. If we can make it
into the hills-"

He suddenly fell silent, raising his head. They all fell silent, listening,
recognizing the shrill scream, the creak of giant leather wings, coming nearer
and nearer.

"Take cover!" Riverwind yelled. But it was too late.

There was a screaming whine and a boom. The Inn, three stories tall and built
of stone and wood, shook as if it were made of sand and sticks. The air
exploded with dust and debris. Flames erupted outside. Above them, they could
hear the sound of wood splitting and breaking, the thud of falling timber. The
building began to collapse in on itself.

The companions watched in stunned fascination-paralyzed by the sight of the
gigantic ceiling beams shuddering beneath the strain as the roof caved in onto
the upper floors.

"Get out!" Tanis shouted. "The whole place is-"

The beam directly above the half-elf gave a great groan, then split and
cracked. Gripping Laurana around the waist, Tanis flung her as far from him as
he could and saw Elistan, standing near the front of the Inn, catch her in his
arms.

As the huge beam above Tanis gave way with a shuddering snap, he heard the
mage shriek strange words. Then he was falling, falling into blackness.-and it
seemed that the world fell on top of him.

Sturm rounded a corner to see the Inn of the Red Dragon collapse in a cloud of
flame and smoke as a dragon soared in the sky above it. The knight's heart
beat wildly with grief and fear.

He ducked into a doorway, hiding in the shadows as same draconians passed
him-laughing and talking in their cold, guttural language. Apparently they
assumed this job was finished and were seeking other amusement. Three others,
he noticed-dressed in blue uniforms, not red-appeared extremely upset at the
Inn's -destruction, shaking their fist at the red Dragon -overhead.
Sturm felt the weakness of despair sweep over him. He "Tanis?"
 sagged against the door, watching the draconians dully, won- "Yes. He came
through the back door, just before the dragon
 wondering what to do next. Were they all still in there? Perhaps hit the Inn.
They were all together, in the very center. I was
 they had escaped. Then his heart gave a painful bound. He saw standing
beneath a doorway. Tanis saw the beam breaking, He
a flash of white. threw Laurana. I caught her, then the ceiling collapsed on
top
 "Elistan!" he cried, watching the cleric emerge from the rub- of them.
There's no way they could have-"
 ble, dragging someone with him. The draconians, swords "I don't believe it!"
Flint said fiercely, leaping into the rubble.
 drawn, ran toward the cleric, calling out in Common for him to Sturm grasped
hold of him, yanked him back.
 surrender. Sturm yelled the challenge of a Solamnia knight to "Where's Tas?"
the knight asked the dwarf sternly.
 an enemy and ran out from his doorway. The draconians The dwarf's face fell.
"Pinned under a beam," he said, his face
 whirled about, considerably disconcerted to see the knight. ( gray with grief
and sorrow. He clutched at his hair wildly,
 Sturm became dimly aware that another figure was running knocking off his
helm. "I've got to go back to him. But I can't
 with him. Glancing to his side, he saw the flash of firelight off a leave
them-Caramon-" The dwarf began to cry, tears
 metal helm and heard the dwarf roaring. Then, from a door- streaming into his
beard. "That big, dumb ox! I need him. He
 way, he heard words of magic. can't do this to me! And Tanis, too!" The
dwarf swore. "Damn
 Gilthanas, unable to stand without help, had crawled out it, I need them!"
 and was pointing at the draconians, reciting his spell. Flaming Sturm put his
hand on Flint's shoulder. "Go back to Tas. He
 darts leaped from his hands. One of the creatures fell over, needs you now.
There are draconians roaming the streets. We'll
 clutching its burning chest. Flint leaped on another, beating it be all-"
 oven the head with a rock, while Sturm felled the other draconian, Laurana
screamed, a terrifying, pitiful sound that pierced
 ion with a blow from his fists. Sturm caught Elistan in his arms r Sturm like
a spear. Turning, he caught hold of her just as she
 as the man staggered forward. The cleric was carrying a started to rush into
the debris.
 woman. "Laurana!" he cried. "Look at that! Look at it!" He shook her
 "Laurana!" Gilthanas cried from the doorway. in his own anguish. "Nothing
could be alive in there!'
 Dazed and sick from the smoke, the elfmaid lifted her glazed ! "you don't
know that!" she screamed at him in fury. tearing
 eyes. "Gilthanas?" she murmured. Then, looking up, she saw away from his
grasp. Falling onto her hands and knees, she
 the knight. tried to lift one of the blackened stones. "Tanis!" she cried.
The
 "Sturm," she said confusedly, pointing behind her vaguely. stone was so
heavy, she could only move it a few inches.
 "Your sword, it's here. I saw it-" Sturm watched, heartsick, uncertain what
to do. 'Then he
 Sure enough, Sturm saw a flash of silver, barely visible had his answer.
Horns! Nearer and nearer. Hundreds, thousands of horns beneath the rubble.
His sword, and next to it was Tanis's. The armies were invading He looked at
sword, the elven blade of Kith-Kanan. Moving aside piles of tan, who nodded
in sorrowful understanding. Both men
stone, Sturm reverently lifted the swords that lay like artifacts hurried
over to Laurana.
within a hideous, gigantic cairn. The knight listened for move- "My dear,"
Elistan began gently; "there is nothing you can do
ment, calls, cries. There was only a dreadful silence. for them. The living
need you. Your brother is hurt, so is the
 "We've got to get out here," he said slowly, without moving. kender. The
draconians are invading. We must either escape
He looked at Elistan, who was staring back at the wreckage, his now, and keep
fighting these horrible monsters, or waste our
fare deathly pale. "The others?" lives in useless grief. Tanis gave his life
foe you, Laurana. Don't
 "They were all in there," Elistan said in a trembling voice. let it be a
needless sacrifice."
"And the half-elf . . ." , Laurana stared up at him, her face black with soot
and filth streaked with tears and blood. She heard the horns, she heard
Gilthanas calling, she heard Flint shouting something about Tasslehoff dying,
she heard Elistan's words. And then the rain began, dripping from the skies as
the heat of the dragonfire melted the snow, changing it to water.

The rain ran down her face, cooling her feverish skin.

"Help me, Sturm," she whispered through lips almost too numb to shape the
words. He put his arm around her. She stood up, dizzy and sick with shock.

"Laurana!" her brother called. Elistan was right. The living needed her. She
must go to him. Though she would rather lie down on this pile of rocks and
die, she must go on. That was what Tanis would do. They needed her. She must
go on.

"Farewell, Tanthalas." she whispered.

The rain increased, pouring down gently, as if the gods themselves wept for
Tarsis the Beautiful.

Water dripped on his head. It was irritating, cold. Raistlin tried to roll
over, out of the way of the water. But he couldn't move. There was a heavy
weight pressing down on tap of him. Panicking, he tried desperately to escape.
As fear surged through his body, he came fully to consciousness. With
knowledge, panic vanished. Raistlin was in control once more and, as he had
been taught, he forced himself to relax and study the situation.

He could see nothing. It was intensely dark, so he was forced to rely on his
other senses. First, he had to get this weight off. He was being smothered and
crushed. Cautiously he moved his arms. There was no pain, nothing appeared
broken. Reaching up, he touched a body. Caramon, by the armor-and the smell.
He sighed. He might have known. Using all his strength, Raistlin shoved his
brother aside and crawled out from under him.

The mage breathed more easily, wiping water from his face. He located his
brother's neck in the darkness and felt for the lifebeat. It was strong, the
man's flesh was warm, his breathing regular. Raistlin lay back down on the
floor in relief. At least, wherever he was, he wasn't alone.

Where was he? Raistlin reconstructed those last few terrifying moments. He
remembered the beam splitting and Tanis throwing Laurana out from under it. He
remembered casting a spell" the last one he had strength enough to manage. The
magic coursed through his body, creating around him and those near him a force
capable of shielding them from physical objects. He remembered Caramon hurling
himself on top of him, the building collapsing around them, and a falling
sensation.

Falling . . .

Ah, Raistlin understood. We must have crashed through the floor into the Inn's
cellar. Groping around the stone floor, the mage suddenly realized he was
soaked through. Finally, however, he found what he lead been searching for-the
Staff of Magus. Its crystal was unbroken; only dragonfire could damage the
Staff given him by Par-Salian in the Towers of High Sorcery.
"Shirak;" whispered Raistlin, and the Staff flared into light. Sitting up, he
glanced around. Yes, he was right. They were in the cellar of the Inn. Broken
bottles of wine spilled their contents onto the floor. Casks of ale were split
in two. It wasn't all water he had been lying in.

The wage flashed the light around the floor. There were Tanis, Riverwind,
Goldmoon, and Tika, all huddled near Caramon. They seemed all right, he
thought, giving them a quick inspection. Around them lay scattered debris.
Half of the beam slanged down through the rubble to rest on the stone floor.
Raistlin smiled. A nice bit of work, that spell. Once more they were in his
debt.

If we don't perish from the cold, he reminded himself bitterly. His body was
shaking so he could barely hold the staff. He began to cough. This would he
the death of him. They had to get out.

"Tanis," he called, reaching out to shake the half-elf.

Tanis lay crumpled at the very edge of Raistlin's magic protective circle. He
murmured and stirred. Raistlin shook him again. The half-elf cried out,
reflexively covering his head with his arm.

"Tanis, you're safe." Raistlin whispered, coughing. "Wake up."

"What?" Tanis sat bolt upright, staring around him. "Where-" Then he
remembered. "Laurana?"

"Gone." Raistlin shrugged. "You threw her out of danger-"
"Yes . . ." Tanis said, sinking back down. "And I heard you say words, magic-"

"That's why we're not crushed." Raistlin clutched his sopping wet robes around
him, shivering, and drew nearer Tanis, who was staring around as if he'd
fallen onto a moon.

"Where in the name of the Abyss-'

"We're in the cellar of the Inn." the mage said. 'The floor gave way and
dropped us down here."

Tanis looked up. "By all the gods." he whispered in awe.

"Yes." Raistlin said, his gaze following Tanis's. "We're buried alive."

Beneath the ruins of the Red Dragon Inn, the companions took stock of their
situation. It did not look hopeful. Goldmoon treated their injuries, which
were not serious, thanks to Raistlin's spell. But they had no idea how long
they had been unconscious or what was happening above them. Worse still, they
had no idea how they could escape.

Caramon tried cautiously to move some of the rocks above their heads, but the
whole structure creaked and groaned. Raistlin reminded him sharply that he had
no energy to cast more spells, and Tanis wearily told the big man to forget
it. They sat in the water that was growing deeper all the time.

As Riverwind stated, it seemed to be a matter of what killed them first: lack
of air, freezing to death, the Inn falling down on top of them, or drowning.

"We could shout for help;" suggested Tika, trying to keep her voice steady.
"Add draconians to the list, then." Raistlin snapped. "They're the only
creatures up there liable to hear you."

Tika's face flushed, and she brushed her hard quickly across her eyes. Caramon
cast a reproachful glance as his brother, then put his arm around Tika and
held her close. Raistlin gave them both a look of disgust.

"I haven't heard a sound up there," Tanis said, puzzled. "You'd think the
dragons and the armies-" He stopped, his glance meeting Caramon's, both
soldiers nodding slowly in sudden grim understanding.

"What?" asked Goldmoon, looking at them.

"We're behind enemy lines." Caramon said. "The armies of draconians occupy the
town. And probably the land for miles
and miles around. There's no way out, and nowhere to go if there were a way
out."

As if to emphasize his words, the companions heard sounds above them. Guttural
draconian voices that they had come to know all too well drifted down through
to them.

"I toll you, this is a waste of time," whined another voice, goblin by the
sound, speaking in Common. "There's no one alive in this mess"

"Tell that to the Dragon Highlord, you miserable dog-eaters," snarled the
draconian. "I'm sure his lordship'll be interested in your opinion. Or rather,
his dragon'll be interested. You have your orders. Now dig, all of you."

There were sounds of scraping, sounds of stones being dragged aside, Rivulets
of dirt and dust started to sift down through the cracks. The big beam
shivered slightly but held.

The companions stared at each other, almost holding their breaths, each
remembering the strange draconians who had attacked the Inn. "Somebody's after
us." Raistlin had said.

"What are we looking for in this rubble?" croaked a goblin in the goblin
tongue. "Silver? Jewels?"

Tanis and Caramon, who spoke a little goblin, strained to hear.

"Naw" said the first goblin, who had grumbled about orders. "Spies or some
such wanted personally by the Dragon Highlord for questioning."

"In haze?` the goblin asked in amazement.

"That's what I said" snarled his companion. "You saw how far it got. The
lizardmen say they had them trapped in the Inn when the dragon hit it. Said
none of them escaped, and so the Highlord figures they must still be here. If
you ask me-the dracos screwed. up and now we've got to pay for their
mistakes."

The sounds of digging and of rock moving grew louder, as did the sound of
goblin voices, occasionally punctuated by a sharp order in the guttural voice
of the draconians. There must be fifty of them -ate the! Tanis thought,
stunned.

Riverwind quietly lifted his sword out of the water and began wiping it dry.
Caramon, his usually cheerful face somber, released Tika and found his sword.
Tanis didn't have a sword, Riverwind tossed him his dagger. Tika started to
draw her sword, but Tanis shook his head. They would be fighting in close
quarters, and Tika needed lots of room. The half-elf looked questioningly at
Raistlin.

The mage shook his head. "I will try, Tanis," he whispered. "But I am very
tired. Very tired. And I can't think, I can't concentrate." He bowed his head,
shivering violently in his wet robes. He was exerting all his effort not to
cough and give them away, muffling his choking in his sleeve.

One spell will finish him, if he gets that off, Tanis realized. Still, he
maybe luckier than the rest of us. At least he won't be taken alive.

The sounds above them grew louder and louder. Goblins are strong, tireless
workers. They wanted to finish this job quickly, then get back to looting
Tarsis. The companions waited in grim silence below. An almost steady stream
of dirt and crushed rock dropped down upon them, along with fresh rainwater.
They gripped their weapons. It was only a matter of minutes, maybe, before
they were discovered.

Then, suddenly; there were new sounds. They heard the goblins yell in fear,
the draconians shout to them, ordering them back to work. But they could hear
the sounds of shovels and picks being dropped down onto the rocks above them,
then the cursing of the draconians as they tried to stop what was apparently a
full-scale goblin revolt.

And above the noise of the shrieking goblins rose a loud, clean, high-pitched
call, which was answered by another call farther away. It was like the call of
an eagle, soaring above the plains at sunset. But this call was right above
them.

There was a scream-a draconian. Then a rending sound as if the body of the
creature were being ripped apart. More screams, the clash of steel being
drawn, another call and another answer-this one much, nearer.

"What is that?" Caramon asked, his eyes wide. "It isn't a dragon. It sounds
like-like some gigantic 62r3 of prey!"

"Whatever it is, it's tearing the draconians to shreds." Goldmoon said in awe
as they listened. The screaming sounds stopped abruptly, leaving a silence
behind, that was almost worse. What newer evil replaced the old?"

Then came the sound of racks and stones, mortar and timber being lifted and
sent crashing to the streets, Whatever was up there was intent on reaching
them!

"It's eaten all the draconians," whispered Caramon gruffly, "and now it's
after us!"

Tika turned deathly white, clutching at Caramon's arm. Goldmoon gasped softly
and even Riverwind appeared to lose same of his stoic composure, staring
intently upward.

"Caramon," Raistlin said, shivering, "shut up!"

Tanis felt inclined to agree with the mage. "We're all scaring ourselves over
noth-" he began. Suddenly there was a rending crash. Stone and rubble, mortar
and timber clattered down around them. They scrambled for cover as a huge,
clawed foot plunged through the debris, its talons gleaming in the light of
Raistlin's staff.
Helplessly seeking shelter beneath broken beams or under the casks of ale, the
companions watched in wonder as the gigantic claw extricated itself from the
rubble and withdrew, leaving behind it a wide, gaping hole.

All went silent. For a few moments, none of the companions dared move. But the
silence remained unbroken.

"This is our chance." Tanis whispered loudly. "Caramon, see what's up there ."

But the big warrior was already creeping out of his hiding place, moving
across the rubble-strewn floor as best he could. Riverwind followed behind,
his sword drawn.

"Nothing." said Caramon, puzzled, peering up.

Tanis, feeling naked without his sword, came over to stand beneath the hole,
gazing upward. Then, to his amazement, a dark figure appeared above them,
silhouetted against the burning sky. Behind the figure towered a large beast.
They could just make out the head off a gigantic eagle, its eyes glittering in
the firelight, its wickedly curved beak gleaming in the flames.

The companions shrank back, but it was too late. Obviously the figure had seen
them. It stepped nearer. Riverwind thought-too late-of his bow. Caramon pulled
Tika close with one hand, holding his sword in his other.

The figure, however, simply knelt down near the edge of the hole, being
careful of its footing among the louse stones, and removed the hood covering
its head.

"We meet again, Tanis Half-Elven," said a voice as cool and pure and distant
as the stars.

Chapter 8
Escape from Tarsis. The story of the dragon orbs.

Dragons flew on their leathery wings above the gutted city of Tarsis as the
draconian armies swarmed in to take possession. The task of the dragons was
completed. Soon the Dragon Highlord would call them back, holding them in
readiness for the next strike. But for now they could relax, drifting on the
super-heaved air currents rising from the burning town, picking off the
occasional human foolish enough to came out of hiding. The red dragons floated
in the sky, keeping in their well-organized flights, guiding and dipping in a
wheeling dance of death.

No power on Krynn existed now that could stop them. They knew this and exulted
in their victory. But, occasionally something would occur to interrupt their
dance. One flight leader, for example, received a report of fighting near the
wreckage of an inn. A young male red dragon, he led his flight to the site,
muttering to himself about the inefficiency of the troop commanders. What
could you expect, though, when the Dragon Highlord was a bloated hobgoblin who
hadn't even courage enough to watch the takeover of a soft town like Tarsis?

The male red sighed, recalling the days of glory when Verminaard had led them
personally, sitting astride the back of Pyros. He had been a Dragon Highlord !
The red shook his head disconsolately. Ah, there was the battle. He could see
it clearly now. Ordering his flight to stay airborne, he swooped in low far a
better look.

"I command you! Stop!"
The red halted in his flight, staring upward in astonishment. The voice was
strong and clear, and it came from the figure of a Dragon Highlord, But the
Dragon Highlord was certainly not Toede! This Dragon Highlord, although
heavily cloaked and dressed in the shining mask and dragon-scale armor of the
Highlords, was human, to judge by the voice, not hobgoblin. But where had this
Highlord come from? And why? For, to the red dragon's amazement, he saw that
the Highlord rode upon a huge blue dragon and was attended by several flights
of blues.

"What is your bidding, Highlord?'" the red asked sternly. "And by what right
do you stop us, you who have no business in this part of Krynn?"

"The fate of mankind is my business, whether it be in this part of Krynn or
another." The Dragon Highlord returned. "And the might of my swordarm, gives
me all the right I need to command you, gallant red. As for my bidding, I ask
that you capture these pitiful humans, do not kill them. They are wanted for
questioning. Bring them to me. You will be well rewarded."

"Look," called a young female red. "Griffons!"

The Dragon Highlord gave an exclamation of astonishment arid displeasure. The
dragons looked down to see three griffons sweeping up out of the smoke. Not
quite half the size of a red dragon, griffons were noted for their ferocity.
Draconian troops scattered like ashes in the wind before the creatures, whose
sharp talons and ripping beaks were tearing the heads from those reptile-men
unlucky enough to have been caught in their path.

The red snarled in hatred and prepared to dive, his flight with him, but the
Dragon High lord swooped down in front of him, causing him to pull up.

"I tell you, they must not be killed!" the Dragon Highlord said sternly.

"But they're escaping!" the red hissed furiously.

"Let them." the Highlord said coldly. "They will not go far. I relieve you of
your duty in this. Return to the main body. And if that idiot Toede mentions
this, tell him that the secret of how he lost the blue crystal staff did not
die with Lord Verminaard. The memory of Fewmaster Toede lives on-in my
mind-and will become known to others if he dares to challenge me!"

The Dragon Highlord saluted, then wheeled the large blue dragon in the air to
fly swiftly after the griffons, whose tremendous speed had allowed them to
escape with their riders well past the city gates. The red watched the blues
disappear through the night skies in pursuit.

"Shouldn't we give chase as well?" asked the female red.

"No," the red male replied thoughtfully, his fiery eyes on the figure of the
Dragon Highlord dwindling in the distance. "I will not cross that one!"

"Your thanks are not necessary, or even wanted," Alhana Starbreeze cut off
Tanis's halting, exhausted words in mid-sentence. The companions rode through
the slashing rain on the backs of three griffons, clutching their feathered
necks with their hands, peering apprehensively down at the dying city falling
rapidly away beneath them.

"And you may not wish to extend them after you hear me out," Alhana stated
coldly, glancing at Tanis, riding behind her. "I rescued you for my own
purposes. I need warriors to help me find my father. We fly to Silvanesti."
"But that's impossible!" Tanis gasped. "We must meet our friends! Fly to the
hills. We can't go to Silvanesti, Alhana. There's too much at stake! If we can
find these dragon orbs, we have a chance to destroy these foul creatures and
end this war. Then we can go to Silvanesti."

"Now we are going to Silvanesti." Alhana retorted. "You have no choice in the
matter, Half-Elven. My griffons obey my command and mine alone. They would
tear you apart, as they did those dragonmen, if I gave the order."

"Someday the elves will wake up and find they are members of a vast family."
Tanis said, his voice shaking with anger. "No longer can they be treated as
the spoiled elder child who is given everything while the rest of us wait for
the crumbs."

"What gifts we received from the gods we earned. You humans and
half-humans"-the scorn in her voice cut like a dagger-"had these same gifts
and threw them away in your greed for more. We are capable of fighting for our
own survival without your help us to your survival, that matters little to
us."

"You seem willing enough to accept our help now!"

"For which you will be well-rewarded," Alhana returned.

"There is, not steel nor jewels enough in Silvanesti to pay us."

"You seek the dragon orbs." Alhana interrupted. "I know where one is located.
It is in Silvanesti!"

Tanis blinked. For a moment, he could think of nothing to say, but the mention
of the dragon orb brought back thoughts of his friend. "Where's Sturm?" he
asked Alhana. "The last I saw him, he was with you."

"I don't know." she replied. "We parted. He was going to the Inn, to find you.
I called my griffons to me."

"Why didn't you let him take you to Silvanesti if you needed warriors?"

"That is none of your concern." Alhana turned her back to Tanis, who sat
wordlessly, too tired to think clearly. Then he heard a noise shouting at him,
barely distinguishable through the feathery rustle of the Griffon's mighty
wings.

It was Caramon. The warrior was shouting and pointing behind them. What now?
Tanis thought wearily.

They had left behind the smoke and the storm clouds that covered Tarsis,
flying out into the clear right sky. The stars gleamed above them, their
sparkling lights shining as cold as diamonds, emphasizing the gaping black
holes in the night sky where the two constellations had wheeled in their track
above the world. The moons, silver and red, had set, but Tanis did not need
their light to recognize the dark drapes blotting out the shining stars.

"Dragons," he said to Alhana. "Following us."

Tanis could never afterward clearly remember the nightmare flight from Tarsis.
It was hours of chill, biting wind that made even death by a dragon's flaming
breath seem appealing. It was hours of panic, staring behind to see the dark
shapes gaining on them, staring until his eyes watered and the tears froze on
his cheeks, yet unable to turn away. It was stopping at dusk, worn out from
fear and fatigue, to sleep in a cave on a high rock cliff. It was waking at
dawn only to see-as they soared through the air again-the dark, winged shapes
still behind them.

Few living creatures can outcry the eagle-winged Griffon. But the dragons-blue
dragons, the first they had ever seen-were always on the horizon, always
pursuing; allowing no rest during the day, darting the companions into hiding
at night when the exhausted griffons must sleep. There was little food, only
quith-pah, a dried fruit type of iron-ration that sustains the body, but does
little to ease hunger-which Alhana carried and shared, But even Caramon was
too weary and dispirited to eat much.

The only thing Tanis remembered vividly occurred on the second night of their
journey. He was telling the small group huddled around a fire in a damp and
cheerless cave about the kender's discovery in the library at Tarsis. At the
mention of the dragon orbs, Raistlin's eyes glittered, his thin face lit from
within by an eager, intense glow.

"Dragon orbs?" he repeated softly.

"I thought you might know of them," Tanis said. "What are they"

Raistlin did not answer immediately. Wrapped a both his own and his brothers
cloak, he lay as near the fire as possible, and all his trail body shook with
the chill. The mage's golden eyes stared at Alhana, who sat somewhat apart
from the group, deigning to share the cane but not the conversation. Now,
however, it seemed she half-turned her head, listening.

"You said there is a dragon orb in Silvanesti." the wage whispered, glancing
at Tanis. "Surely I am not the one to ask."

"I know little about it," Alhana said, turning her pale face to the firelight.
"We keep it as a relic of bygone days, more of a curiosity than anything else.
Who believed humans would once again wake this evil and bring the dragons back
to Krynn?"

Before Raistlin could answer, Riverwind spoke angrily. "You have no proof it
was humans!"

Alhana swept the Plainsman an imperious glance. She did not reply, considering
it beneath her to argue with a barbarian.

Tanis sighed. The Plainsman had little use for elves. It had taken long days
before he had come to trust Tanis, longer for Gilthanas and Laurana. Now, just
as Riverwind seemed to be able to overcome his inherited prejudices, Alhana
with her equal prejudices had inflicted new wounds.

"Very well, Raistlin," Tanis said quietly, "tell us what you know of the
dragon orbs."

"Bring my drink, Caramon," the mage ordered. Bringing the cup of hot water as
commanded, Caramon set it before his brother. Raistlin propped himself up an
one elbow and mixed herbs into the water. The strange, acrid odor filled the
air. Raistlin, grimacing, sipped the bitter mixture as he talked.

"During the Age of Dreams, when those of my order were respected and revered
upon Krynn, there were five Towers of High Sorcery." The mage's voice sank, as
if recalling painful memories. His brother sat staring at the rock floor of
the cave, his face grave. Tanis, seeing the shadow fall across both twins,
wondered again whale had happened within the Tower of High Sorcery to change
their lives so drastically. It was useless to ask, he knew. Both had been
forbidden to discuss it.

Raistlin paused a moment before he continued, then drew a deep breath. "When
the Second Dragon Wars came, the highest of my order met together in the
greatest of the Towers-the Tower of Palanthas-and created the dragon orbs."

Raistlin's eyes. grew unfocused, his whispering voice ceased a moment. When he
spoke next, it was as if recounting a moment he was reliving in his mind. Even
his voice changed, becoming stranger, deeper, clearer. He no longer coughed.
Caramon looked at him in astonishment.

"Those of the White Robes entered the chamber at the top of the Tower first,
as the silver moon, Solinari, rose. Then Lunitari appeared in the sky,
dripping with blood, and those of the Red Robes entered. Finally the black
disk, Nutari, a hole of darkness among the stars, could be seen by those who
sought it, and the Black Robes walked into the chamber.

"It was a strange moment in history, when all enmity between the Robes was
suppressed. It would come but one more time in the world, when the wizards
joined together in the Lost Battles, but that time could not be foreseen. It
was enough to know that, for now, the great evil must be destroyed. For at
last we had seen that evil was intent on destroying all the magic of the
world, so that only its own would survive! Some there were among the Black
Robes, who might have tried to ally with this great power"-Tanis saw
Raistlin's eyes burn-"but soon realized they would not be masters of it, only
its slaves. And so the dragon orbs were born, on a night when all three moons
were full in the sky."

"Three moons?" Tanis asked softly, but Raistlin did not hear him and continued
to speak in the voice not his own.

"Great and powerful magic was worked that night-so powerful that few could
withstand it and they collapsed, their physical and mental strength drained.
But that morning, five dragon orbs stood upon pedestals, glistening with
light, dark with shadows. All but one were taken from Palanthas and carried,
in great peril, to each of the other four Towers. Here they helped rid the
world of the Queen of Darkness."

The feverish gleam faded from Raistlin's eyes. His shoulders slumped, his
voice sank, and he began to cough, violently. The others stared at him in
breathless silence.

Finally Tanis cleared his throat. "What do you mean, three moons?"

Raistlin looked up dully. "Three moons?" he whispered. "I know nothing of
three moons. What were we discussing?"

"Dragon orbs. You told us how they were created. Now did you-" Tanis stopped,
seeing Raistlin sink onto his pallet.

"I have told you nothing." Raistlin said irritably. "What are you talking
about?"

Tanis glanced at the others. Riverwind shook his head. Caramon bit his lip and
looked away, his face drawn with worry.

"We were speaking of the dragon orbs." Goldmoon said. "You were going to tell
us what you knew of them."
Raistlin wiped blood from has mouth. "I do not know much," he said wearily,
shrugging. "The dragon orbs were created by the high mages. Only the most
powerful of my order could use them. It was said that great evil would came to
those not strong in magic who tried to command the orbs. Beyond that, I know
nothing. All knowledge of the dragon orbs perished during the Lost Battles.
Two, it was said, were destroyed in the Fall of the Towers of High Sorcery,
destroyed rather than let the rabble have them. Knowledge of the other three
died with their wizards." His voice died. Sinking back onto his pallet,
exhausted, he fell asleep.

"The Lost Battles, three moons. Raistlin talking with a strange voice. None of
this makes sense." Tanis muttered.

"I don't believe any of it!" Riverwind said coldly. He shook out their furs,
preparing to sleep.

Tanis was starting to follow his example when he saw Alhana creep from the
shadows of the cave and came to stand next to Raistlin. Staring dawn at the
sleeping mage, her hands twisted together.

"Strong in magic!" she whispered in a voice filled with fear. "My father!"

Tanis looked at her in sudden understanding,

"You don't think your father tried to use the orb?"

"I am afraid." Alhana whispered, wringing her hands. "He said he alone could
fight the evil and keep it from our land. He must have meant-" Swiftly she
bent down near Raistlin. "Wake him!" she commanded, her black eyes flaring. "I
must know! Wake him and make him tell me what the danger is!"

Caramon pulled her back, gently but firmly. Alhana glared at him, her
beautiful face twisted in fear and rage, and it seemed for a moment as if she
might strike him, but Tanis reached her side and caught hold off her hand.

"Lady Alhana," he said calmly, "it would do no good to wake him. He has told
us everything he knows. As for that other voice, he obviously remembers
nothing about what it said."

"I've seen it happen to Raist before," Caramon said in low tones, "as if he
becomes someone else. But it always leaves him exhausted and he never
remembers."

Alhana jerked her hand away from Tanis's, her face resuming its cold, pure,
marble stillness. She whirled and walked to the front of the cave. Catching
hold of the blanket Riverwind had hung to hide the fire's light, she nearly
tore it down as she flung it aside and skulked outdoors.

"I'll stand first watch." Tanis told Caramon. "You get some sleep."

"I'll stay up with Raist awhile." the big man said, spreading out his pallet
next to his frail twins. Tanis followed Alhana outside.

The griffons slept soundly, their heads buried on the soft feathers of their
necks, taloned front feet clutching the cliff edge securely. For a moment he
could not find Alhana in the darkness, then he saw her, leaning against a huge
boulder, weeping bitterly, her head buried in her arms.

The proud Silvanesti woman would never forgive him if he saw her weak and
vulnerable. Tanis ducked back behind the blanket.

"I'll strand watch! " he called out loudly before he walked outside again.
Lifting the blanket, he saw, without seeming to, Alhana stark up and wipe her
hands hurriedly across her face. She turned her back to him, and he walked
slowly toward her: giving her time to pull herself together.

"The cave was stifling." she said in a low voice. "I could not bear it.. I had
to come out for a breath of air."

"I have xxxxx watch," Tanis said. He paused, then added, "You seem afraid your
father might have tried to use this dragon orb. Surely he would know its
history. If I remember what I know of your people, he was a magic-user."

"He knew where the orb came from." Alhana said; her voice quivering before she
could regain control. "The young mage was right when he spoke of the Last
Battles and the destruction of the Tower. But he was wrong when he said the
other three orbs were to. -One was brought is Silvanesti by my father for
safe-keeping."

"What were 'The Lost Battles?' Tanis asked. standing on the rocks next to
Alhana."

"Is no xxxxx at all kept in Qualinesti?" she reformed, regarding Tanis with
scorn. What barbarian you have become since mingling with humans!"

"Say the fault is my own," Tanis. said, "that I did not pay enough heed to the
Loremaster"

Alhana glanced at him, suspecting him of being sarcastic.

Seeing his serious face and not particularly wanting him to leave her alone,
she decided to answer his question. "As Istar rose during the Age of Might to
greater and greater glories, the Kingpriest of Istar and his clerics became
increasingly jealous of the magic-users' power. The clerics no longer saw the
need for magic in the world, fearing it-of course-as something they could not
control. Magic-users themselves, although respected, were never widely
trusted, even those wearing the white robes. It was a simple matter for the
priests to stir the people against the wizards. As times grew snore and more
evil, the priests placed the blame upon the magic-users. The Towers of High
Sorcery, where the magicians must pass their final, grueling tests, were where
the powers of the mages rested. The Towers became natural targets. Mobs
attacked them, and it was as your young friend said: for only the second time
in their history, the Robes came together to defend their last bastions of
strength."

"But how could they be defeated?" Tanis said incredulously.

"Can you ask that, knowing what you do of your mage   friend? Powerful he is,
but he must have rest. Even the strongest must have   time to renew their
spells, recommit them to memory. Even the eldest of   the older-wizards whose
might has not been seen on Krynn since-had to sleep   and spend hours reading
their spellbooks- And then, too, as now, the number   of magic-users was small.
There are few who dare take the tests in the Towers   of High Sorcery, knowing
that to fail is to die."

"Failure means death?" Tanis said softly.

"Yes," Alhana replied. "Your friend is very brave, to have taken the Test so
young. Very brave - very ambitious. Didn't he ever tell you?"
"No," Tanis murmured. "He never speaks of it. But go on."

Alhana shrugged. "When it became clear that the battle was hopeless, the
wizards themselves destroyed two of the Towers. The blasts devastated the
countryside for miles around. Only three remained-the Tower of Istar, the
Tower of Palanthas, and the Tower of Wayreth. But the terrible destruction of
the other two Towers scared the Kingpriest. He granted the wizards in the
Towers of Istar ante' Palanthas safe passage from these cities if they left
the Towers undamaged, for the wizards could have destroyed the two cities, as
the Kingpriest well knew.

"And so the mages traveled to the one Tower which was never threatened-the
Tower of Wayreth in the Kharolis Mountains. To Wayreth they came to nurse
their wounds and to nurture the small spark of magic still left in the world.
Those spellbooks they could not take with them-for the number of books was
vast and many were bound with spells of protection-were given to the great
library at Palanthas, and there they still remain, according to the fare of my
people."

The silver moon had risen, its moonbeams graced their daughter with a beauty
that took Tanis's breath away, even as its coldness pierced his heart.

"What do you know of a third moon?" he asked; staring into the night sky,
shivering. "A black moon..."

"Little." Alhana replied. "The magic-user draws power from the moons: the
White Robes from Solinari, the Red Robes from Lunitari. There is, according to
lore, a moon that gives the Black Robes their power, but only they know its
name or how to find it in tile sky."

Raistlin knew its name, Tanis thought, or at least that other voice knew it.
But he did not speak this aloud.

"How did your father get the dragon orb?"

"My Father, Lorac, was an apprentice." Alhana replied softly, turning her face
to the silver moon. "He traveled to the Tower of High Sorcery at Istar for the
Tests, which he took and survived. It was there he first saw the dragon orb."
She fell silent for a moment. "I am going to tell you what I have never told
anyone, and what he has never told-except to me. I tell you only because you
have a right to know what-what to expect.

"During the Tests, the dragon orb-" Alhana hesitated, seeming to search for
the right words- "spoke to him, to his mind. It feared some terrible calamity
was approaching. 'You must not leave me here in Istar' it told him. 'If so, I
will perish and the -world will be lost.' My father - I suppose you could say
he stole the dragon orb, although he saw himself as rescuing it.

"The Tower of Istar was abandoned. The Kingpriest moved in and used it far his
own purposes. Finally the mages left the Tower of Palanthas." Alhana shivered.
"Its story is a terrible one. The Regent of Palanthas, a disciple of the
Kingpriest, arrived at the Tower to seal the gates shut-so he said. But all
could see his eyes lingering on the beautiful Tower greedily, for legends of
the wonders within-both fair and evil-had spread throughout the land.

"The Wizard of the White closed the Tower's slender gates of gold and locked
them with a silver key. The Regent stretched out his hand, eager for the key,
when one of the Black Robes appeared in a window in one of the upper stories.
"The gates will remain closed and the halls empty until the day when the
master of both the past and the present returns with power" he cried. Then the
evil mage leaped out, hurling himself down at the gates. As the barbs pierced
the black robes, he cast a curse upon the Tower. His blood poured down on the
ground, the silver and golden gates withered and twisted and turned to black.
The shimmering tower of white and red faded to ice-gray stone, its black
minarets crumbling to dust.

"The Regent and the people fled in terror. To this day, no one has dared enter
the Tower of Palanthas-or even approached its gates. It was after the cursing
of the Tower that my father brought the dragon orb to Silvanesti."

"But surely your father knew something about the orb before he took it." Tanis
persisted. "How to use it-'

"If so, he did not speak of it;" Alhana said wearily, "for that is all I
knave. I must rest now. Goodnight," she said to Tanis without looking at him.

"Goodnight, Lady Alhana," Tanis said gently. "Rest easily this night. And
don't worry. Your father is wise and has lived through much. I'm certain
everything is all right."

Alhana started to sweep past without a word, then, hearing the sympathy in his
voice, she hesitated.

"Though he passed the Test;" she said so softly Tanis had to step closer to
heat, "he was net as powerful in his magic as your young friend is now. And if
he thought the dragon orb was our only hope, I fear-" Her voice broke.

"The dwarves have a saying." Sensing for a moment that the barriers between
them had been lowered, Tanis put his arm around Alhana's slender shoulders and
drew her lose. " 'Rouble borrowed will be paid hack with interest compounded
an sorrow': Don't worry. We're with you."

Alhana did not answer. She let herself be comforted far just an instant, then,
slipping free of his grasp, walked to the entrance to the cave. There she
stopped and looked back.

"You are worried about your friends." she said. "Do not be. They escaped the
city and are safe. Though the kender was close to death for a time, he
survived, and now they travel to Ice Wall in search of a dragon orb."

"How do you know this?" Tanis gasped.

"I have told you all I can." Alhana shook her head.

"Alhana! How do you know?" Tanis asked sternly.

Her pale cheeks stained with pink, Alhana murmured, "I-I gave the knight a
Starjewel. He does not know its power, of course, nor how to use it. I don't
know why I gave it to him, even, except-"

"Except what" Tanis asked, amazed beyond belief.

"He was so gallant, so brave. He risked his life to help me, and he didn't
even know who I was. He helped me because I was in trouble. And-" Her eyes
glimmered. "And he wept, when the dragons killed the people. I've never seen
an adult weep before. Even when the dragons came and drove us from our home,
we did not weep. I think, perhaps, we've forgotten how."
Them, as if realizing she had said too much, she hastily gulled aside the
blanket and entered the cave.

"In the name of the gods!" Tanis breathed. A Starjewel What a rare and
priceless gift: A gift exchanged by elven lovers forced to part, the jewel
creates a bond between souls. Thus, linked, they share the innermost emotions
of the loved one and can grant strength to each other in times of need. But
never before in Tanis's long life, had the half-elf heard of a Starjewel being
gives to a human. What would it do to a human? What kind of effect would it
have? And Alhana-she could never love a human, never return love. This must be
some sort of blind infatuation. She had been frightened, alone. No, this could
only end in sorrow, unless something changed drastically among the elves or
within Alhana herself.

Even as Tanis's heart expanded with relief to know Laurana and the others were
safe, it contracted with fear and grief for Sturm,

Chapter 9
Silvanesti. Entering the dream.

The third day, they continued their journey, flying into the sunrise. They had
lost the dragons apparently; although Tika, keeping watch behind, thought she
could see black dots upon the horizon. And that afternoon, as the sun was
sinking behind them, they neared the river known as Thos-Thalas-Lord's
River-which divided the outside world from Silvanesti.

All of his life, Tanis had heard of the wonder and beauty of the ancient Elven
Home, though the elves of Qualinesti spoke of it without regret. Then did not
miss the last wonders of Silvanesti, for the wonders themselves became a
symbol of the differences that had developed between the elven kin.

The elves in Qualinesti lived in harmony with nature, developing and enhancing
its beauty. They built their homes among the aspens, magically gilding the
trunks with silver and gold. They built their dwellings of shimmering rose
quartz, and invited nature to come dwell with them.

The Silvanesti, however, loved uniqueness and diversity in all objects. Not
seeing this uniqueness existing naturally, they reshaped nature to conform to
their ideal. They had patience and they had time, for what were centuries to
elves whose life spans measured in the hundreds of years? And so they reformed
entire forests, pruning and digging, forcing the trees and flowers into
fantastic gardens of incredible beauty.

They did not 'build' dwellings, but carved and molded the marble rock that
existed naturally in their land into such strange and wondrous shapes that-in
the years before the races were estranged-dwarven craftsmen traveled thousands
of miles to view them, and then could do nothing but weep at the rare beauty.
And, it was said, a human who wandered into the gardens of Silvanesti could
not leave, but stayed forever enraptured, caught in a beautiful dream.

All this was known to Tanis only through legend, of course, for none of the
Qualinesti had set foot in their ancient home since the Kinslayer wars. No
human-it was believed-had been allowed in Silvanesti since a hundred years
before that.

"What about the stories," Tanis asked Alhana as they flew above the aspens on
the backs of the griffons, "the stories of humans trapped by the beauty of
Silvanesti, unable to leave. Do my friends dare go to this land?" Alhana
glanced back at him.
"I knew humans were weak," she said coldly "brat I did not think they were
that weak. It is true humans do not come to Silvanesti, but that is because we
keep them out. We certainly wouldn't want to keep any in. If I thought there
was danger of that, I would not allow you into my homeland."

"Not even Sturm?" he couldn't help asking wry,"I3.^, nettled by her stinging
tone.

But he was not prepared for the answer. Albans twisted to face him, whipping
around so fast her long black hair flailed his skin. Her face was so pale with
anger, it seemed translucent and he could see the veins pulse beneath her
skin. Her dark eyes seemed to swallow him in their black depths.

"Never speak of that to me!" she said through clenched teeth and white lips.
"Never speak of him!"

"But last night-" Tanis faltered, astonished, putting his hand to his burning
cheek.

"Last night never happened;" Alhana said. "I was weak, tired, frightened. As I
was when . . . when I met Sturm-the knight. I regret speaking of him to you. I
regret telling you of the Starjewel."

"Do you regret giving it to him?" Tanis asked.

"I regret the day I set foot in Tarsis," Alhana said in a low, passionate
voice. "I wish I had never gone there! Never!" She turned away abruptly,
leaving Tanis to dark thoughts.

The companions had just reached the river, within sight of the tall Tower of
the Stars, shining like a strand of pearls twisting into the sun, when the
griffons suddenly halted their flight. Tanis, glancing ahead, could see no
sign of danger. But their griffons continued to descend rapidly.

Indeed. it seemed hard to believe that Silvanesti had been under attack. There
were no thin columns of campfire smoke rising into the air, as there would be
if the draconians occupied the county. The land was not blackened and ruined.
He could see, below him, the green of the aspens gleaming in the sunlight.
Here and there, the marble buildings dotted the forest with their white
splendor.

"No!' Alhana spoke to the griffons in elven. "I command you! Keep going! I
must reach the Tower!"

But the griffons circled lower and lower, ignoring her.

"What is it?" Tanis asked. "Why are we stopping? We're in sight of the Tower.
What's the matter?" He looked all around. "I see nothing to be concerned
over."

"They refuse to go an," Alhana said, her face drawn with worry. "They won't
tell me why, only that we must travel on our own from here. I don't understand
this."

Tanis didn't like it. Griffons were known as fierce, independent creatures.
but once their loyalty was gained, they served their maulers with undying
devotion. The elven royalty of Silvanesti has always tamed griffons for their
use. Though smaller than dragons, the griffons' lightning speed, sharp talons,
tearing beak, and lion-clawed hind feet made them enemies to be respected.
There was little they feared on Krynn, so Tanis had heard. These griffons, he
remembered, had flown into Tarsis through swarms of dragons without apparent
fear.

Yet now the griffons were obviously afraid. They landed on the banks of the
river, refusing all of Alhana's angry, imperious commands to fly farther.
Instead, they moodily preened themselves and steadfastedly refused to obey.

Finally there was nothing for the companions to do but climb off the griffons'
backs and unload their supplies. Then the birdlion creatures, with fierce,
apologetic dignity, spread their wings and soared away.

"Well, that is that." said Alhana sharply, ignoring the angry glances she felt
cast at her. "We shall simply have to walk, that's all. The way is not far."

The companions stood stranded upon the riverbank, staring across the sparkling
water into the forest beyond. None of them spoke. All of them were tense,
alert, searching for trouble. But all they saw were the aspen trees glistening
in the last, lingering rays of sunset. The river murmured as it lapped on the
shore. Though the aspens were green still, the silence of winter blanketed the
land.

"I thought you said your people fled because they were under siege?" Tanis
said to Alhana finally.

"If this land is under control of dragons, I'm a gully dwarf!" Caramon
snorked.

"We were!" Alhana answered, leer eyes scanning the sunlit forest. "Dragons
filled the skies-as in Tarsis! The dragonmen entered our beloved woods,
burning, destroying-" Her voice died.

Caramon leaned near Riverwind and muttered, "Wild goose chase!"

The Plainsman scowled. "If it's nothing more than that, we'll be fortunate,"
he sail, his eyes on the elfmaid. "Why did she bring us here? Perhaps it's a
trap."

Caramon considered this a moment, then glanced uneasily at his brother, who
had not spoken or moved or taken his strange eyes from the forest since the
griffons left . The big warrior loosened his sword in its scabbard and moved a
step nearer Tika. Almost accidentally, it seemed, their two hands clasped.
Tika cast a fearful look at Raistlin but held onto Caramon tightly.

The mage just stared fixedly into the wilderness.

"Tanis!" Alhana said suddenly, forgetting herself in her joy and putting her
hand on his arm. "Maybe it worked! Maybe my father defeated them, and we can
come home! Oh, Tanis-" She trembled with excitement. "We've got to cross the
river and find out! Come! The ferry landing's down around the bend-"

"Alhana, wait!" Tanis called, but she was already running along the smooth,
grassy bank, her long full skirts fluttering around her ankles. "Alhana! Damn
it. Caramon and Riverwind, go after her. Goldmoon, try to talk some sense into
her."

Riverwind and Caramon exchanged uneasy glances, but they did as Tanis ordered,
running along the riverbank after Alhana. Goldmoon and Tika followed more
slowly.

"Who knaves what's in these woods?" Tanis muttered. "Raistlin-"
The mage did not seem to hear. Tanis moved closer. "Raistlin?" he repeated,
seeing the mage's abstracted stare.

Raistlin stared at him blankly, as if waking from a dream. Then the mage
became aware of someone speaking to him. He lowered his eyes.

"What is it, Raistlin?" Tanis asked. "What do you sense?"

"Nothing, Tanis." the mage replied.

Tanis blinked. "Nothing?" he repeated.

"It is like an impenetrable fog, a blank wall." Raistlin whispered. "I see
nothing, sense nothing."

Tanis stared at him intently, and suddenly he knew Raistlin was lying. But
why? The mage returned the half-elf's gaze with equanimity, even a small,
twisted smile on his thin lips, as if he knew Tanis didn't believe him but
really didn't care.

"Raistlin," Tanis sail softly, "suppose Lorac, the elfking, tried to use the
dragon orb-what would happen?"

The mage lifted his eyes to stare auto tile forest. "Do you think that is
possible?" he asked.

"Yes." Tanis said, "From what little Alhana told me, during the Tests in the
Tower of High Sorcery at Istar, a dragon orb spoke to Lorac, asking him to
rescue it from the impending disaster."

"And he obeyed it?" Raistlin asked, his voice as soft as the murmuring water
of the ancient river.

"Yes. He brought it to Silvanesti."

"So this is the dragon orb of Istar." Raistlin whispered. His eyes narrowed,
and then he sighed, a sigh of longing. "I knew nothing about the dragon orbs,"
he remarked, coolly, "except what I told you. But I know this, Half-Elf none
of us will come out of Silvanesti unscathed, if we come out at all."

"What do you mean? What danger is there?"

"What does it matter what danger I see?" Raistlin asked, folding his hands in
the sleeves of his red robes. "We must enter Silvanesti. You know it as well
as I. Or will you forego the chance to find a dragon orb?"

"But if you see danger, tell us! We could at least enter prepared-" Tanis
began angrily.

"Then prepare." Raistlin whispered softly, and he turned away and began to
walk slowly along the sandy beach after his brother.

The companions crossed the river just as the last rays of the sun flickered
among the leaves of the aspens on the opposite bank. And then the fabled
forest of Silvanesti was gradually swamped lay darkness. The shadows of night
flowed among the feet of the trees like the dark water flowing beneath the
keel of the ferry book.

Their journey was slow. The ferry-an ornately-carved, flat-bottomed beak
connected to both shores by an elaborate system of copes and pulleys-seemed at
first to be in good condition. But once they set foot on board and began to
crass the ancient river, they discovered that the ropes were rotting. The boat
began to decay before their eyes. The river itself seemed to change.
Reddish-brown water seeped through the hull, tainted with the faint swell of
blood.

They had just stepped out of the boat on the opposite bank and were unloading
their supplies, when the frayed ropes sagged and gave gray. The river swept
the ferry boat downstream in an instant. Twilight vanished at the same moment,
and night swallowed them. Although the sky was clear, without a cloud to mar
its dark surface, there were no stars visible. Neither the red nor the silver
moon rose. The only light came from the river, which seemed to gleam with an
unwholesome brilliance, like a ghoul.

"Raistlin, your staff." Tanis said. His voice echoed too loudly through the
silent trees. Even Caramon cringed.

"Shirak." Raistlin spoke the word of command and the crystal globe clutched in
the disembodied dragon's claw flared into light. But it was a cold, pale
light. The only thing it seemed to illuminate were the mage's strange,
hourglass eyes.

"We must enter the woods." Raistlin said in a shaking voice. Turning, he
stumbled toward the dark wilderness.

No one else spoke or moved. They stood on the bank, fear overtaking them.
There was no reason for it, and it was all the more frightening because it was
illogical. Fear crept up on them from the ground. Fear flowed through their
limbs, turning the bowels to water, sapping the strength of heart and muscle,
eating into the brain.

Fear of what? There was nothing, nothing there! Nothing to be afraid of, yet
all of them were more terrified of this nothing than they had been of anything
before in their lives.

"Raistlin's right. We've-got to-get into the woods-find shelter . . ." Tanis
spoke with an effort, his teeth chattering. "Follow Raistlin ."

Shaking, he staggered forward, not knowing if anyone followed, not caring.
Behind him, he could hear Tika whimper and Goldmoon trying to talk through
lips that would not form words. He heard Caramon shout for his brother to stop
and Riverwind cry out in terror, but it didn't matter. He had to run, get away
from here. His only guidance was the light of Raistlin's staff.

Desperately, he stumbled after the mage into the woods. But when Tanis reached
the trees, he found his strength was gone. He was too scared to move.
Trembling, he sank down on his knees, then pitched forward, his hands
clutching at the ground.

"Raistlin!" His throat was torn by a ragged scream.

But the mage could not help. The last thing Tanis saw was the light from
Raistlin's staff falling slowly to the ground, slowly, and more slowly,
released by the young mage's limp, seemingly lifeless hand.

The trees. The beautiful trees of Silvanesti. Trees fashioned and coaxed
through centuries into groves of wonder and enchantment. All around Tanis were
the trees. But these trees now turned upon their masters, becoming living
groves of horror. A noxious green light filtered through the shivering leaves.
Tanis stared about in horror. Many strange and terrible sights he had seen in
his life, but nothing like this. This, he thought, might drive him insane. He
turned this way and that, frantically, but there was no escape. All around
were the trees-the trees of Silvanesti. Hideously changed.

The said of every tree around him appeared trapped in torment, imprisoned
within the thank. The twisted branches of the tree were the limbs of its
spirit, contorted in agony. The grasping roots clawed the ground in hopeless
attempts to flee. The sap of the living trees flowed from huge gashes in the
trunk. The rustling -of its leaves were cries of pain and terror. The trees of
Silvanesti wept blood.

Tanis had no idea where he was or haw long he had been here. He remembered he
had begun walking toward the Tower of the Stars that he could see rising above
the branches of the aspens. He had walked and walked, and nothing had stopped
him. Then he'd heard the kender shriek in terror, like the scream of some
small animal being tortured. Turning he saw Tasslehoff pointing at the trees,
Tanis, staring horrified at the trees, only eventually comprehended that
Tasslehoff wasn't supposed to be here. And there was Sturm, ashen with fear,
and Laurana, weeping in despair, and Flint, his eyes wide and staring.

Tanis embraced Laurana, and his arms encompassed flesh and blood, but still he
knew she was not there-even as he held her, and the knowledge was terrifying.

Then, as he stood there in the grove that was like a prison of the damned the
horror increased. Animals mounded out from among the tormented trees and fell
upon the companions.

Tanis drew his sword to strike back, but the weapon shook in his trembling
hand, and he was forced to avert his eyes for the living animals had
themselves been twisted and misshapen unto hideous aspects of undying death.

Riding among the misshapen beasts were legions of elven warriors, their
skull-like features hideous to behold. No eyes glittered in the hollow sockets
of their faces, no flesh covered the delicate bones of their hands. They rode
among the companions with brightly burning swords that drew living blood. But
when any weapon struck them, they disappeared into nothing.

The wounds they inflicted, however, were real. Caramon, battling a wolf with
snakes growing out of its body, looked up to see one of the elven warriors
bearing down on him, a shining spear in his fleshless hand. He screamed to his
brother for help.

Raistlin spoke "Ast kiranann kair Soth-aran/Suh kali Jalaran." A ball of flame
flashed from the mage's hands to burst directly upon the elf-without effect.
Its spear, driven by incredible force, pierced Caramon's armor, entering his
body, nailing him to the tree behind.

The elven warrior yanked his weapon free from the big man's shoulder. Caramon
slumped to the ground, his life's bland mingling with the tree's blood.
Raistlin, with a fury that surprised him, drew the silver dagger from the
leather thong he wore hidden on his arm and flung it at the elf. The blade
pricked its undead spirit and the elven warrior, horse and all, vanished into
air. 'fret Caramon lay capon the ground, his arm hanging from his body by only
a thin strip of flesh.

Goldmoon knelt to heal him, but she stumbled over her prayers, her faith
failing her amid the horror.
"Help me, Mishakal,"' Goldmoon prayed. "Help me to help my friend."

The dreadful wound closed. Though blood still seeped from it, trickling down
Caramon's arm, death loosed its grip on the warrior. Raistlin knelt beside his
brother and started to speak to him. Then suddenly the mage fell silent. He
stared past Caramon into the trees, his strange eyes widening with disbelief.

"You!" Raistlin whispered.

"Who is it?" Caramon asked weakly, hearing a thrill of horror and fear in
Raistlin's voice. The big man peered into the green light but could see
nothing. "Who do you mean?"

But Raistlin, intent upon another conversation, did not answer.

"I need your aid." the mage said sternly. "Now, as before."

Caramon sawn his brother stretch out his hand, as though reaching .across a
great gap, and was consumed with fear without knowing why.

"No, Raist!" he cried, clutching at his brother in panic. Raistlin's hand
dropped.

"Our bargain remains. What? You ask for more?" Raistlin was silent a moment,
then he sighed. "Name it!"

For long moments, the mage listened, absorbing. Caramon, watching him with
loving anxiety, saw his brother's thin metallic-tinged face grow deathly pale.
Raistlin closed his eyes, swallowing as though drinking his bitter herbal
brew. Finally he bowed his head.

"I accept."

Caramon cried out in horror as he saw Raistlin's robes, the red robes that
marked his neutrality in the world, begin to deepen to crimson, then darken to
a blood red, and then darken more-to black.

"I accept this," Raistlin repeated more calmly, "with the understanding that
the future can be changed. What must we do?"

He listened. Caramon clutched his arm, moaning in agony.

"How do we get through to the Tower alive?" Raistlin asked his unseen
instructor. Once mare he attended carefully, then nodded. "And I will be given
what I need? Very well. Farewell then, if such a thing is possible for you on
your dark journey."

Raistlin rose to his feet, his black robes rustling around him. Ignoring
Caramon's sobs and Goldmoon's terrified gasp as she saw him, the mage went in
search of Tanis. He found the half-elf, back against a tree, battling a host
of elven warriors.

Calmly, Raistlin reached into his pouch and drew forth a bit of rabbit fur and
a small amber rod. Rubbing these together in his left palm, he held forth his
right hand and spoke, "Ast kiranann kair Gadurm Soth-arn,: Sub kala'alaran."

Bolts of lightning shot from his fingertips, streaking through the
green-tinted air, striking the elven warriors. As before, they vanished. Tanis
stumbled backwards, exhausted.
Raistlin stood in the center of a clearing, of the distorted, tormented trees.

"Came around me!" the mage commanded his companions.

Tanis hesitated. Elven warriors hovered on the fringe of the clearing. They
surged forward to attack, but Raistlin raised his hand, and they stopped as
though crashing against an unseen wall.

"Come to stand near me." The companions were astonished to hear Raistlin
speak-for the first time since his Tests-in a normal voice. "Hurry." he added,
"they will not attack now. They fear me. But I cannot hold them back long."

Tanis came forward, his face pale beneath the red beard, blood dribbling from
a wound on his head. Goldmoon helped Caramon stagger forward. He clutched his
bleeding arm as his face was twisted in pain. Slowly, one by one, the other
companions crept forward. Finally, only Sturm stood outside the circle.

"I always knew it would come to this." the knight said slowly. "I will die
before I place myself under your protection, Raistlin."

And with that, the knight turned and walked deeper into the forest. Tanis saw
the leader of the elven undead make a gesture, detailing some of his ghastly
band to follow. The half-elf started after, then stopped as he felt a
surprisingly strong hand grip his arm.

"Let him go," the mage said sternly, "or we are all lost. I have information
to impart and my time is limited. We must make our way through this forest to
the Tower of the Stars. We must walk the way of death, for every hideous
creature ever conceived in the twisted, tortured dreams of mortals will arose
to stop us. But know this-we walk in a dream, Lorac's nightmare. And our own
nightmares as well. Visions of the future can arise to help us-or hinder.
Remember, that though our bodies are awake, our minds sleep. Death exists only
in our minds-unless we believe otherwise."

"Then why can't we wake up?" Tanis demanded angrily.

"Because Lorac's belief in the dream is too strong and your belief too weak.
When you are firmly convinced, beyond doubt, that this is a dream; you will
return to reality."

"If this is true," Tanis said, "and you're convinced it is a dream, why don't
you awaken?"

"Perhaps." Raistlin said, smiling, "I choose not to."

"I don't understand!" Tanis cried in bitter frustration.

"You will," Raistlin predicted grimly, "or you will die. In which case, it
won't matter."


Chapter I0

Waking dreams. Future visions.

Ignoring the horrified stares of his companions, Raistlin walked to his
brother, who stand clutching his bleeding arm.

"I will take care of him," Raistlin said to Goldmoon, putting his own
black-robed arm around his twin.
"No," Caramon gasped, "you're not strong en-"His voice died as he felt his
brothers arm support him..

"I am strong enough now, -Caramon." Raistlin said gently, his very gentleness
sending a shiver through the warrior's body. "Lean on me, my brother."
Weak from pain and fear, for the first time in his life Caramon leaned on
Raistlin. The mage supported him as, together, they starting walking through
the hideous forest.

"What's happening, Raist?" Caramon asked, choking. "Why do you wear the Black
Robes? And your voice-"

"Save your breath, my brother." Raistlin advised softly.

The two traveled deeper into the forest, and the undead elven warriors stared
menacingly at them from the trees. They could see the hatred the dead bear the
living, see it flicker in the hollow eye sockets of the undead warriors. But
none dared attack the black-robed mage. Caramon felt his life's blood well
thick and warm from between his fingers. As he watched it drip upon the dead,
slime-coated leaves beneath his feet, he grew weaker and weaker. He had the
fevered impression that the black shadow of himself gained in strength even as
he lost it.

Tanis hurried through the forest, searching for Sturm. He found him fighting
off a group of shimmering elven warriors.

"It's a dream." Tanis shouted to Sturm, who stabbed and slashed at the undead
creatures. Every time he struck one, it vanished, only to reappear once more.
The half-elf drew his sword, running to fight at Sturm's side.

"Bah!" the knight grunted, then gasped in pain as an arrow thudded into his
arm. The wound was not deep, because the chain mail protected him, but, it
bled freely. "Is this dreaming?" Sturm said, yanking out the blood-stained
shaft.

Tanis jumped in front of the knight, keeping their foes back until Sturm could
stanch the flow of blood.

"Raistlin told us-" Tanis began.

"Raistlin! Hah! Look at his robes, Tanis!"

"But you're here! In Silvanesti!" Tanis protested in confusion.. He had the
strangest feeling he was arguing with himself. "Alhana said you were in Ice
Wall!"

The knight shrugged. "Perhaps I was sent to help you."

All right. It's a dream, Tanis told himself. I will wake up.

But there was no change. The elves were still there, still fighting. Sturm
must be right. Raistlin had lied. Just as he had lied before they entered the
forest. But why? To what purpose?

Then Tanis knew. The dragon orb!

"We've got to reach the Tower before Raistlin!" Tanis cried to Sturm. "I know
what the mage is after!"
The knight could do nothing more than nod. It seemed to Tanis that from then
on they did nothing but fight for every inch of ground they gained. Time and
again, the two warriors forced the elven undead back, only to be attacked in
ever increasing numbers. Time passed, they knew, but they had no conception of
its passing. One moment the sun shone through the stifling green haze. Then
night's shadows hovered over the land like the wings of dragons.

Then, just as the darkness deepened, Sturm and Tanis saw the Tower. Built of
marble, the tall Tower glistened white. It stood alone in a clearing, reaching
up to the heavens like -a skeletal finger clawing up from the grave.

At sight of the Tower, both men began to run. Though weak and exhausted,
neither wanted to be in these deadly woods after nightfall. The elven
warriors-seeing their prey escaping-screamed in rage and charged after them.

Tanis ran until it seemed his lungs would burst with pain. Sturm ran ahead of
him, slashing at the undead who appeared before them, trying to block their
path. Just as Tanis neared the Tower, he felt a tree root twist itself around
his boot. He pitched headlong onto the ground.

Frantically Tanis fought to free himself, but the root held him fast. Tanis
struggled helplessly as an undead elf, his face twisted grotesquely, raised a
spear to drive it through Tanis's body. Suddenly the elf's eyes widened, the
spear fell from nerveless fingers as a sword punctured its transparent body.
The elf vanished with a shriek.

Tanis looked up to see who had saved his life. It was a strange warrior,
strange-yet familiar. The warrior removed his helm, and Tanis stared into
bright brown eyes!

"Kitiara!" he gasped in shock. "You're here! How? Why?"

"I heard you needed some help." Kit said, her crooked smile as charming as
ever. "Seems I was right." She reached out her hand. He grasped it, doubting
as she pulled him to his feet. But she was flesh and blood. "Who's that ahead?
Sturm? Wonderful! Like old times! Shall we go to the Tower?" she asked Tanis,
laughing at the surprise on his face.

Riverwind fought alone, battling legions of undead elven warriors. He knew he
could not take much more. Then he heard a clear call. Raising his eyes, he saw
Que-shu tribesmen! He cried out joyfully. But, to his horror, he saw them
turning their arrows upon him.

"No?" he shouted in Que-shu. "Don't you recognize me? I..."

The Que-shu warriors answered only with their bow strings. Riverwind felt
shaft after feathered shaft sink in his body.

"You brought the blue crystal staff among us!" they cried. "Your fault! The
destruction of our village was your fault!"

"I didn't mean to." he whispered as he slumped to the ground. "I didn't know.
Forgive me."

Tika hacked and slashed her way through elven warriors only to see them turn
suddenly intro draconians! Their reptile eyes gleamed red, their tongues
licked their swords. Fear chilled the barmaid. Stumbling, she bumped into
Sturm. Angrily the knight whirled, ordering her out of his way. She staggered
back and jostled Flint. The dwarf impatiently shoved her aside.
Blinded by tears, panic-stricken at the sight of the draconians, who sprang
back into battle full-grown from their own dead bodies, Tika, lost control. In
her fear, she stabbed wildly at anything that moved.

Only when she looked up and saw Raistlin standing before her in his black
robes did she come to her senses. The mage said nothing, he simply pointed
downward. Flint laid dead at her feet, pierced by her own sword.

I led them here. Flint thought. This is my responsibility. I'm the eldest.
I'll get them out.

The dwarf hefted his battle-axe and yelled a challenge to the elven warriors
before him. But they just laughed.

Angrily. Flint strode forward - only to find himself walking stiffly. His knee
joints were swollen. and hurt abominably. His gnarled fingers trembled with a
palsy that made him lose his grip on the battle-axe. His breath came short.
And then Flint knew why the elves weren't attacking: they were letting old age
finish him.

Even as he realized flays., Flint felt his mind begin to wander. His vision
blurred. Patting his vest packet, he wondered where he had put those
confounded spectacles. A shape loomed before him, a familiar shape. Was it
Tika? Without his glasses, he couldn't see...

Goldmoon ran among the twisted, tortured trees. Lost and alone, she searched
desperately for her friends. Far away, she heard Riverwind calling for her
above the ringing clash of swords. Then she heard his call cut off in a bubble
of agony. Frantically she dashed forward, fighting her way through the
brambles until her hands and face were bleeding. At last she found Riverwind.
The warrior lay upon the ground, pierced by many arrows-arrows she recognised!

Running to him, she knelt beside him. "Heal him, Mishakal." she prayed, as she
had prayed so often.

But nothing happened. The color did not return to Riverwind's ashen face. His
eyes remained locked, staring fixedly into the green-tinged sky.

"Why don't you answer? Heal him!" Goldmoon cried to the gods. And then she
knew. "No!" she screamed. "Punish me! I am the one who has doubted. l'am the
one who has questioned! I saw Tarsis destroyed, children dying in agony! How
could you allow that? I toy to have faith, but I cannot help doubting when I
see such horrors! Do not punish him." Weeping, she bent over the lifeless body
of her husband. She did not see the elven warriors closing in around her.

Tasslehoff, fascinated by the horrible wonders around him, wandered off the
path, and there discovered that-somehow his friends had managed to lose him.
The undead did not bother him. They who fed of fear felt no fear in his small
body.

Finally, after roaming here and there for nearly a day, the kender reached the
doors to the Tower of the Stars. Here his lighthearted journey came to a
sudden halt, for he had found his friends-one of them at least.

Sacked up against the closed doors, Tika fought for her life against a host of
misshapen, nightmare-begotten foes. Tas saw that if she could get inside the
Tower, she would be safe. Dashing forward, his small body flitting easily
through the melee, then reached the door and began to examine the lock while
Tika held the elves back with her wildly swinging sword.
"Hurry, Tas!" she cried breathlessly.

It was an easy lock to open; with such a simplistic trap to protect it, Tas
was surprised that the elves even bothered.

"I should have this lock picked in seconds," he announced. Just as he set to
work, however, something bumped him from behind, causing him to fumble.

"Hey!" he shocked at Tika irritably, turning around. "Be a little more
careful-" He stopped short, horrified. Tika lay at his feet, blood flowing
into her red curls.

"No, not Tika!" Tas whispered. Maybe she was only wounded! Maybe if he got her
inside the Tower, someone could help her. Tears dimmed his vision, his hands
shook.

I've got to hurry, Tas thought frantically. Why won't this open? It's so
simple. Furious, he tore at the lock.

He felt a small prick in his finger just as the lock clicked. The door to the
Tower began to swing open. But Tasslehoff just stared at his finger where a
tiny spot of blood glistened. He looked back at the lock where a small, golden
needle sparkled. A simple lock, a simple trap. He'd sprung them both. And, as
the first effects of the poison surged with a terrible warmness through his
body, he looked down to see he was too late. Tika was dead.

Raistlin and his brother made their way through the forest without injury.
Caramon watched in growing amazement as Raistlin drove back the evil creatures
that assailed them; sometimes with feats of incredible magic, sometimes
through the sheer farce of his will.

Raistlin was kind and gentle and solicitous. Caramon was forced to strap
frequently as the day waned. By twilight, it was all Caramon could do to drag
one foot in front of the other, even leaning upon his brother for support. And
as Caramon grew ever weaker, Raistlin grew stronger.

Finally, when night's shadows fell, bringing a merciful end to the tortured
green day, the twins reached the Tower. Here they stopped. Caramon was
feverish and in pairs.

"I've got to rest, Raist." he gasped. "Put me down."

"Certainly, my brother." Raistlin said gently. He helped Caramon lean against
the pearl wall of the Tower, then regarded his brother with tool, glittering
eyes.
"Farewell, Caramon," he said.

Caramon looked at his twin in disbelief. Within the shadows of the trees, the
warrior could see the undead elves, who had followed them at a respectful
distance, creep closer as they realized the mage who had warded them off was
leaving.

"Raist," Caramon said slowly, "you can't leave me here! I can't fight them. I
don't have the strength! I need you!"

"Perhaps, but you see, my brother, I no longer need you. I have gained your
strength. Now, finally, I am as I was meant to be but for nature's cruel
trick-one whole person."

As Caramon stared, uncomprehending, Raistlin turned to leave.
"Raist!"

Caramon's agonized cry halted him. Raistlin stopped and gazed back at his
twin, his golden eyes all that were visible from within the depths of his
black hood.

"How does it feel to be weak and afraid, my brother?" he asked softly.
Turning, Raistlin walked to the Tower entrance where Tika and Tas lay dead.
Raistlin stepped over the kender's body and vanished into the darkness.

Sturm and Tanis and Kitiara, reaching the Tower, saw a body tying on the grass
at its base. Phantom shapes of undead elves were starting to surround it,
shrieking and yelling, hacking at it with their cold swords.

"Caramon!" Tanis cried, heartsick.

"And where's his brother?" Sturm asked with a sidelong glance at Kitiara.
"Left him to die, no doubt."

Tanis shook his head as they ran forward to aid the warrior. Wielding their
swords, Sturm and Kitiara kept the elves at bay while Tanis knelt beside the
mortally wounded warrior.

Caramon lifted his glazed eyes and met Tanis's, barely recognizing him through
the bloody haze that dimmed his vision. He tried desperately to talk.

"Protect Raistlin, Tanis-" Caramon choked on his own. blood-"since I won't be
there now. Watch over him."

"Watch over Raistlin?" Tanis repeated furiously. "He left you here, to die!"
Tanis held Caramon in his arms.

Caramon closed his eyes wearily. 'No, you're wrong, Tanis. I sent him away..."
The warrior's head slumped .forward.

Night's shadows closed over them. The elves had disappeared. Sturm and Kit
came to stand beside the dead warrior.

"What did I tell you?" Sturm asked harshly.

"Poor Caramon." Kitiara whispered, bending down near him. "Somehow I always
guessed it would end this way." She was silent for a moment, then spoke
softly. "So my little Raistlin has become truly powerful." she mused, almost
to herself.

"At the cost of your brother's life!"

Kitiara looked at Tanis as if perplexed at his meaning. Then, shrugging, she
glanced down at Caramon, who lay in a pool of his own blood. "Poor kid." she
said softly.

Sturm covered Caramon's body with his cloak, then they sought the entrance to
the Tower.

"Tanis-" Sturm said, pointing.

"Oh, no. Not Tas!" Tanis murmured. "And Tika."

The kenders body lay just inside the doorway, his small limbs twisted by
convulsions from the poison. Near him lay the barmaid, her red curls matted
with blood. Tanis knelt beside them. One of the kender's packs had opened in
his death throes, its contents scattered. Tanis caught sight of a glint of
gold. Reaching down, he picked up the ring of elven make, carved in the shape
of ivy leaves. His vision blurred, tears filled his eyes as he covered his
face with his hands.

"There's nothing we can do, Tanis." Sturm put his hand on his friend's
shoulder. "We've got to keep going and put an end to this. If I do nothing
else, I'll live to kill Raistlin."

Death is in the mind. This is a dream, Tanis repeated. But it was Raistlin's
words he was remembering, and he'd seen what the mage had become.

I'll will wake up., he thought, bending the full force of his will to
believing it was a dream. But when he opened his eyes, the kender's body stall
lay on the floor.

Clasping the ring in his hand, Tanis followed Kit and Sturm into a dark,
slime-covered, marble hallway. Paintings hung in golden frames upon marble
walls. Tall, stained-glass windows let in a lurid, ghastly light. The hallway
might have been beautiful ante, but now even the paintings on the walls
appeared distorted, portraying horrifying visions of death. Gradually, as the
three walked, they became aware of a brilliant green light emanating from a
room at the end of the corridor.

They could feel a malevolence radiate from that green light, beating upon
their faces with the warmth of a perverted sun.

"The center of the evil." Tanis said. Anger filled his heart, anger, grief,
and a burning desire for revenge. He started to run forward, but the
green-tainted air seemed to press upon him, holding him back until each step
was an effort.

Next to him, Kitiara staggered. Tanis put his arm around her, though he could
barely find the strength to move himself. Kit's face was drenched with sweat,
the dark hair curled around her damp forehead. Her eyes were wide with
fear-the first time Tanis ever saw her afraid. Sturm's breath came in gasps as
the knight struggled forward, weighted down by his armor.

At first, they seemed to make no progress at all. Then slowly, they realized
they were inching forward, drawing nearer and nearer the green-lit room. Its
bright light was now painful to their eyes, and movement exacted a terrible
toll. Exhaustion claimed them, muscles ached, lungs burned.

Just as Tanis realized he could not take another step, he heard a voice call
his name. Lifting his aching head, he saw Laurana standing in front of him,
her elven sword in her hand. The heaviness seemingly had no effect on her at
all, for she ran to him with a glad cry.

"Tanthalas! You're all right! I've been waiting-" She broke off, her eyes on
the woman clasped in Tanis's arm.

 "Who-" Laurana started to ask, then suddenly, somehow she knew. This was the
human woman, Kitiara. The woman Tanis loved. Laurana's face went white, then
red.

 "Laurana-" Tanis began, feeling confusion and guilt sweep over him, hating
himself for causing her pain.
 "Tanis! Sturm!" Kitiara cried, pointing.

Startled by the fear in her voice, all of them turned, staring down the
green-lit marble corridor.

 "Drakus Tsaro, deghnyah!' Sturm intoned in Solamnic.

 At the end of the corridor loomed a gigantic green dragon.

His name was Cyan Bloodbane, and he was one of the largest dragons on Krynn.
Only the Great Red herself was larger.

Snaking his head through a doorway, he blotted out the blinding green light
with his hulking body. Cyan smelled steel and human flesh and elven blood. He
peered with fiery eyes at them.

They could not move. Overcome with the dragonfear, they could only stand and
stare as the dragon crashed through the doorway, shattering the marble wall as
easily as if it had been baked mud. His mouth gaping wide, Cyan moved down the
corridor.

There was nothing they could do. Their weapons dangled from hands gone
nerveless. Their thoughts were of death. But, even as the dragon neared, a
dark shadowy figure crept from the deeper shadows of an unseen doorway and
came to stand before them, facing them.

"Raistlin!" :Sturm said quietly. "By all the gods, you will pay for your
brother's life!"

Forgetting the dragon, remembering only Caramon's lifeless body, the knight
sprang toward the mage, his sword raised. Raistlin just stared at him coldly.

"Kill me, knight, and you doom yourself and the others to death, for through
my magic-and my magic alone-will you be able to defeat Cyan Bloodbane!"

"Hold, Sturm!" Though his soul was filled with loathing, Tanis knew the mage
was right. He could feel Raistlin's power radiate through the black robes. "We
need his help."

"No!" Sturm said, shaking his head and backing away as Raistlin neared the
group. "I said before-I will not rely on his protection. Not now. Farewell,
Tanis."

Before any of them could stop him Sturm walked past Raistlin toward -Cyan
Bloodbane. The great dragon's head wove back and forth in eager anticipation
of this first challenge to his power since he had conquered Silvanesti.

Tanis clutched Raistlin. "Do something!"

"The knight is in my way. Whatever spell I cast will destroy him too."
Raistlin answered,

"Sturm!" Tanis shouted, his voice echoing mournfully.

The knight hesitated. He was, listening but not to Tanis's voice. What he
heard was the -clear, clarion call of a trumpet, its music cold as the air
from the snow-covered mountains of his homeland. Pure and crisp, the trumpet
call rose bravely above the darkness and dead and -despair to pierce his
heart.
Sturm answered the trumpet's call with a glad battle cry. He raised his
sword-the sword of his father- its antique blade twined with the kingfisher
and the rose. Silver moonlight streaming through a broken window caught the
sword in a pure-white radiance that shredded the noxious green air.

Again the trumpet sounded, and again Sturm answered, but this time his voice
faltered, for the trumpet call he heard had changed tone. No longer sweet and
pure, it was braying and harsh and shrill.

"No" thought Sturm in horror as he neared the dragon. Those were the horns of
the enemy! He had been lured into a trap! Around him now he could see
draconian soldiers, creeping from behind the dragon, laughing cruelly at his
gullibility.

Sturm stopped, gripping his sword in a hand that was sweating inside its
glove. The dragon loomed above him, a creature undefeatable, surrounded by
masses of his troops, slavering and licking his jowls with his curled tongue.

Fear knotted Sturm's stomach; his skin grew cold and clammy. The horn call
sounded a third time, terrible and evil. It was all over. It had all been for
nothing. Death, ignominious defeat awaited him. Despair descending, he looked
around fearfully. Where was Tanis? He needed Tanis, but he could not find him.
Desperately he repeated the code of the knights, My Honour Is My Life, but the
words sounded hollow and meaningless in his ears. He was not a knight. What
did the Code mean to him? He had been living a lie! Sturm's swordarm wavered,
then dropped; his sword fell from his hand and he sank to his knees, shivering
and weeping like a child, hiding his head from the terror before him.

With one swipe of his shining talons, Cyan Bloodbane ended Sturm's life,
impaling the knight's body upon a blood-stained claw. Disdainfully, Cyan shook
the wretched human to the floor while the draconians swept shrieking toward
the knight's still-living body, intent upon hacking it to pieces.

But they found their way blocked. A bright figure, shining silver in the
moonlight, ran to the knight's body. Reaching down swiftly, Laurana lifted
Sturm's sword. Then, straightening, she faced the draconians.

"Touch him and you will die," she said through her tears.

"Laurana!" Tanis screamed and tried to run forward to help her. But draconians
sprang at him. He slashed at them desperately, trying to reach the elfmaid.
Just when he had wan through, he heard Kitiara call his name. Whirling, he saw
her being beaten back by four draconians. The half-elf stopped in agony,
hesitating, and at that moment Laurana fell across Sturm's body, her own body
pierced by draconian swords.

"No! Laurana!" Tanis shouted. Starting to go to her, he heard Kitiara cry out
again. He stopped, turning. Clutching at his head, he stood irresolute and
helpless, forced to watch as Kitiara fell beneath the enemy.

The half-elf sobbed in frenzy, feeling himself begin to sink into madness,
longing for death to end this pain. He clutched the magic sword of Kith-Kanan
and rushed toward the dragon, his one thought to kill and be killed.

But Raistlin blocked his path, stranding in front of the dragon like a black
obelisk.

Tanis fell to the floor, knowing his death was fixed. Clasping the small
golden ring firmly in his hand, he waited to die.
Then he heard the mage chanting strange and powerful words. He heard the
dragon roar in rage. The two were battling, but Tanis didn't care. With eyes
closed fast, he blotted out the sounds around him, blotted out life. Only one
thing remained real. The golden ring he held tightly in his hand.

Suddenly Tanis became acutely conscious of the ring pressing into his palm:
the metal was cool, its edges rough. He could feel the golden twisted ivy
leaves bite into his flesh.

Tanis closed his hand, squeezing the ring. The gold bit into his flesh, bit
deeply. Pain . . . real pain . . .

I am dreaming!

Tanis opened his eyes. Solinari's silver moonlight flooded the Tower, mingled
with the red beams of Lunitari. He was lying on a cold, marble floor. His hand
was clasped tightly, so tightly that pain had wakened him. Pain? The ring. The
dream! Remembering the dream, Tanis sat up in terror and looked around. But
the hall was empty except for one other person. Raistlin slumped against a
wall, coughing.

The half-elf staggered to his feet and walked shakily toward Raistlin. As he
drew nearer, he could see blood on the mage's lips. The blood gleamed red in
Lunitari's light-as red as the robes that covered Raistlin's frail., shivering
body.

The dream.

Tanis opened his hand. It was empty.


Chapter 10
The Dream ends. The Nightmare begins.


The half-elf stared around the hallway. It was as empty as his hand. The
bodies of his friends were gone. The dragon was gone. Wind blew through a
shattered wall, fluttering Waistline's red robes about him, scattering dead
aspen leaves along the floor. The half-elf walked over to Raistlin, catching
the young mage in his arms as he collapsed.

"Where are they?" Tanis asked, shaking Raistlin. "Laurana? Sturm? And the
others, your brother? Are they dead?" He glanced around. "And the dragon-"

"The dragon is gone. The orb sent the dragon away when it realized it could
not defeat me." Pushing himself from Tanis's grasp, Raistlin stood alone,
huddled against the marble wall. "It could not defeat me as I was. A child
could defeat me now." he said bitterly. "As for the others"-he shrugged-"I do
not know." He turned his strange eyes on Tanis. "You lived, half-elf, because
your love was strong. I lived because of my ambition. We clung to reality in
the midst of the nightmare. Who can say with the others?"

"Caramon's alive, then." Tanis said. "Because of his love. With his last
breath, he begged me to spare your life. Tell me, mage, was this future you
say we saw irreversible?"

"Why ask?" Raistlin said wearily. "Would you kill me, Tanis? Now?"

"I don't know," Tanis said softly, thinking of Caramon's dying words.
"Perhaps."
Raistlin smiled bitterly. "Save your energy." he said. "The future changes as
we stand here, else we are the game pieces of the gods, not their heirs, as we
have been promised. But," the mage pushed himself away from the wall-"this is
far from over. We must find Lorac-and the dragon orb."

Raistlin shuffled down the hall, leaning heavily upon the Staff of Magius, its
crystal lighting the darkness now that the green light had died.

Green light. Tanis stood in the hallway, lost in confusion, trying to wake up,
trying to separate the dream from reality for the dream seemed much more real
than any of this did now. He stared at the shattered wall. Surely there had
been a dragon? And a blinding green light at the end of the corridor? But the
hallway was dark. Night had fallen. It had been morning when they started. The
moons had not been up, yet now they were full. How many nights had passed? How
many days?

Then Tanis heard a booming voice at other end of the corridor, near the
doorway.

"Raist!"

The mage stopped, his shoulder slumped. Then he turned slowly. "My brother,"
he whispered.

Caramon-alive and apparently uninjured-stood in the doorway, outlined against
the starry night. He stared at his twin.

Then Tanis heard Raistlin sigh softly.
"I am tired, Caramon." The mage coughed, then drew a wheezing breath. "And
there is still much to be done before this nightmare is ended, before the
three moons set." Raistlin extended his thin arm. "I need your help, brother."

Tanis heard Caramon heave a shuddering sob. The big man ran into the room, his
sword clanking at his thigh. Reaching his brother, he put his arm around him.

Raistlin leaned on Caramon's strong arm. Together, the twins walked down the
cold hallway and through the shattered wall toward the room where Tanis had
seen the green light and the dragon. His heart heavy with foreboding, Tanis
followed them.
The three entered the audience room of the Tower of the Stars. Tanis looked at
it curiously. He had heard of its beauty all his life. The Tower of the Sun in
Qualinost had been built in remembrance of this Tower-the Tower of the Stars.
The two were alike, yet not alike. One was filled with light, one filled with
darkness. He stared around. The Tower soared above him in marble spirals that
shimmered with a pearly radiance. It had been built to collect moonlight, as
the Tower of the Sun collected sunlight. Windows carved into the Tower were
faceted with gems that caught and magnified the light of the two moons,
Solinari and Lunitari, making red and silver moonbeams dance in the chamber.
But now the gems were broken. The moonlight that filtered in was distorted,
the silver turning to the pale white of a corpse, the red to blood.

Tanis, shivering, looked straight up to the top. In Qualinost, there were
murals on the ceiling, portraying the sun, the constellations, and the two
moons. But here there was nothing but a carved hole in the top of the Tower.
Through the hole, he could see only empty blackness. The stars did not shine.
It was as if a perfectly round, black sphere had appeared in the starry
darkness. Before he could ponder what this portended, he heard Raistlin speak
softly, and he turned.
There, in the shadows at the front of the audience chamber was Alhana's
father, Lorac, the elfking. His shrunken and cadaverous body almost
disappeared in a huge stone throne, fancifully carved with birds and animals.
It must once have been beautiful, but now the animals' heads were skulls.

Lorac sat motionless, his head thrown back, his mouth wide in a silent scream.
His hand rested upon a round crystal globe.

"Is he alive?" Tanis asked in horror.

"Yes," Raistlin answered, "undoubtedly to his sorrow."

"What's wrong with him?"

"He is living a nightmare," Raistlin answered, pointing to Lorac's hand.
"There is the dragon orb. Apparently he tried to take control of it. He was
not strong enough, so the orb seized control of him. The orb called Cyan
Bloodbane here to guard Silvanesti, and the dragon decided to destroy it by
whispering nightmares into Lorac's ear. Lorac's belief in the nightmare was so
strong, his empathy with his land so great, that the nightmare became reality.
Thus, it was his dream we were living when we entered. His dream-and our own.
For we too came under the dragons control when we stepped into Silvanesti."

"You knew we faced this!" Tanis accused, grabbing Raistlin by the shoulder and
spinning him around. "You knew what we were walking into, there on the shores
of the river-"

"Tanis," Caramon said warningly, removing the half-elf's hand. "Leave him
alone."

"Perhaps," Raistlin said, rubbing his shoulder, his eyes narrow. "Perhaps not.
I need not reveal my knowledge or its source to you!"

Before he could reply, Tanis heard a moan. It sounded as if it came from the
base of the throne. Casting Raistlin an angry glance, Tanis turned quickly
from him and stared into the shadows. Warily he approached, his sword drawn.
"Alhana!" The elfmaid crouched at her father's feet, her head in his lap,
weeping. She did not seem to hear Tanis. He went to her. "Alhana." he said
gently.

She looked up at him without recognition.

"Alhana." he said again.

She blinked, then shuddered, and grabbed hold of his hand as if clutching at
reality.

"Half-Elven!" she whispered.

"How did you get here? What happened?"

"I heard the mage say it was a dream," Alhana answered, shivering at the
memory, "and I-I refused to believe in the dream. I woke, but only to find the
nightmare was real! My beautiful land filled with horrors!" She hid her face
in her hands. Tanis knelt beside her and held her close.
"I made my way here. It took-days. Through the nightmare." She gripped Tanis
tightly. 'When I entered the Tower, the dragon caught me. He brought me here,
to my father, thinking to make Lorac murder me. But not even in his nightmare
could my father harm his own child. So Cyan tortured him with visions-of what
he would do to me."
"And you? You saw them, too?" Tanis whispered, stroking the woman's long, dark
hair with a soothing hand.

After a moment, Alhana spoke. "It wasn't so bad. I knew it was nothing but a
dream. But to my poor father it was reality-" She began to sob.

The half-elf motioned to Caramon. "Take Alhana to a room where she can lie
down. We'll do what we can for her father."

"I will be all right, my brother." Raistlin said in answer to Caramon's look
of concern. "Do as Tanis says."

"Come, Alhana." Tanis urged her, helping her stand. She staggered with
weariness. "Is there a place you can rest? You'll need your strength."

At first she started to argue, then she realized how weak she was. "Take me to
my father's room." she said. "I'll show you the way." Caramon put his arm
around her, and slowly they began to walk from the chamber.

Tanis turned back to Lorac. Raistlin stood before the elfking. Tanis heard the
mage speaking softly to himself.
"What is it" the half-elf said quietly. "Is he dead?"

"Who?" Raistlin started, blinking. He saw Tanis looking at Lorac. "Oh, Lorac7
No, I do not believe so. Not yet."

Tanis realized the mage had been staring at the dragon orb. "Is the orb still
in control?" Tanis asked nervously, his eyes on the object they had gone
through so much to find.

The dragon orb was a huge globe of crystal, at least twentyfour inches across.
It sat upon a stand of gold that had been carved in hideous, twisted designs,
mirroring the twisted, tormented life of Silvanesti. Though the orb must have
been the source of the brilliant green light, there was now only a faint,
iridescent, pulsing glow at its heart.
Raistlin's hands hovered over the globe, but, Tanis noted, he was careful not
to touch it as he chanted the spidery words of magic. A faint aura of red
began to surround the globe. Tanis backed away.

"Do not fear." Raistlin whispered, watching as the aura died. "It is my spell.
The globe is enchanted-still. Its magic has not died with the passing of the
dragon, as I thought possible. It is still in control, however."

"Control of Lorac?"

"Control of itself. It has released Lorac."

"Did you do this?" Tanis murmured. "Did you defeat it?"

"The orb is not defeated!" Raistlin said sharply. "With help, I was able to
defeat the dragon. Realizing Cyan Bloodbane was losing, the orb sent him away.
It let go of Lorac because it could no longer use him. But the orb is still
very powerful."

"Raistlin, tell me-"

"I have no more to say Tanis ." The young mage coughed. "I must conserve my
energy."
Whose help had Raistlin received? What else did he know of this orb? Tanis
opened his mouth to pursue the subject, then he saw Raistlin's golden eyes
flicker. The half-elf fell silent.

"We can free Lorac now," Raistlin added. Walking to the elf king, he gently
removed Lorac's hand from the dragon orb, then put his slender fingers to
Lorac's neck. "He lives. For the time being. The lifebeat is weak. You may
come closer."

But Tanis, his eyes on the dragon orb, held back. Raistlin glanced at the
half-elf, amused, then beckoned.
Reluctantly, Tanis approached. "Tell me one more thing can the orb still be of
use to us?"

For long moments, Raistlin was silent. Then, faintly, he replied. "Yes, if we
dare."

Lorac drew a shivering breath, then screamed-a thin, wailing scream horrible
to hear. His hands-little more than laving skeletal claws-twisted and writhed.
His eyes were tightly closed. In vain, Tanis tried to calm him. Lorac screamed
until he was out of breath, and then he screamed silently.

"Father!" Tanis heard Alhana cry. She reappeared in the doorway of the
audience chamber and pushed Caramon aside. Running to her father, she grasped
his bony hand in hers. Kissing his hands, she wept, pleading for him to be
silent.
"Rest, Father." she repeated over and over. "The nightmare is ended. The
dragon is gone. You can sleep, Father!"

But the man's screaming continued.
"In the name of the gods!" Caramon said as he came up to them, his face pale.
"I can't take much of this."

"Father!" Alhana pleaded, calling to him again and again. Slowly her beloved
voice penetrated the twisted dreams that lingered on in Lorac's tortured mind.
Slowly his screams died to little more than horrified whimpers. Then, as if
fearing what he might see, he opened his eyes.
"Alhana, my child. Alive!" He lifted a shaking hand to touch her cheek. "It
cannot be! I saw you die, Alhana. I saw you die a hundred times, each time
more horrifying than the last. He killed you, Alhana. He wanted me to kill
you. But I could not. Though I know not why, as I have killed so many." Then
he caught sight of Tanis. His eyes flared open, shining with hatred.

"You!" Lorac snarled, rising from his chair, his gnarled hands clutching the
sides of the throne. "You, half-elf! I killed you-or tried to. I must protect
Silvanesti! I killed you! I killed those with you." Then his eyes went to
Raistlin. The look of hatred was replaced by one of fear. Trembling, he shrank
away from the mage. "But you, you I could not kill!"

Lorac's look of terror changed to confusion. "No." he cried. "You are not he!
Your robes are not black! Who are you?" His eyes went back to Tanis. "And you?
You are not a threat? What have I done?" He moaned.

"Don't, Father." Alhana pleaded, soothing him, stroking his fevered face. "You
must rest now. The nightmare is ended. Silvanesti is safe."

Caramon lifted Lorac in his strong arms and carried him to his chambers.
Alhana walked next to him, her father's hand held fast in her own.

Safe, Tanis thought, glancing out the windows at the tormented trees. Although
the undead elven warriors no longer stalked the woods, the tortured shapes
Lorac had created in his nightmare still lived. The trees, contorted in agony,
still wept blood. Who will live here now? Tanis wondered sadly. The elves will
not return. Evil things will enter this dark forest and Lorac's nightmare will
become reality.

Thinking of the nightmarish forest, Tanis suddenly wondered where his other
friends were. Were they all right? What if they had believed the nightmare-as
Raistlin said? Would they have truly died? His heart sinking, he knew he would
have to go back into that demented forest and search for them.

Just as the half-elf began to try and force his weary body to action, his
friends entered the Tower room.

"I killed him!" Tika cried, catching sight of Tanis. Her eyes were wide with
grief and terror. "No! Don't touch me, Tanis. You don't know what I've done. I
killed Flint! I didn't mean to, Tanis, I swear!"

As Caramon entered the room, Tika turned to him, sobbing. "I killed Flint,
Caramon. Don't come near me!"

"Hush." Caramon said, gently enfolding her in his big arms. "It was a dream,
Tika. That's what Raist says. The dwarf was never here. Shhh." Stroking Tika's
red curls, he kissed her. Tika clung to him, Caramon clung to her, each
finding comfort with the other. Gradually Tika's sobs lessened.

"My friend." Goldmoon said, reaching out to embrace Tanis.

Seeing the grave, somber expression on her face, the half-elf held her
tightly, glancing questioningly at Riverwind. What had each of them dreamed?
But the Plainsman only shook his head, his own face pale and grieved.

Then it occurred to Tanis that each must have lived through his or her own
dream, and he suddenly remembered Kitiara! How real she had been! And Laurana,
dying. Closing his eyes, Tanis laid his head against Goldmoon's. He felt
Riverwind's strong arms surround them both. Their love blessed him. The horror
of the dream began to recede.
And then Tanis had a terrifying thought. Lorac's dream became reality! Would
theirs?

Behind him, Tanis heard Raistlin begin to cough. Clutching his chest, the mage
sank down onto the steps leading up to Lorac's throne. Tanis saw Caramon,
still holding Tika, glance at his brother in concern. But Raistlin ignored his
brother. Gathering his robes around him, the mage lay down on the cold floor
and closed his eyes in exhaustion.

Sighing, Caramon pressed Tika closer. Tanis watched her small shadow become
part of Caramon's larger one as they stood together, their bodies outlined in
the distorted silver and red beams of the fractured moonlight.

We all must sleep, Tanis thought, feeling his own eyes burn. Yet how can we?
How can we ever sleep again?

Chapter I2
Visions shared the death of Lorac.

Yet finally they slept. Huddled on the stone floor of the Tower of the Stars,
they kept as near each other as possible. While, as they slept, others in
lands cold and hostile, lands far from Silvanesti, wakened.
Laurana woke first. Starting up from a deep sleep with a cry, at first she had
no idea where she was. She spoke one word, "Silvanesti!"

Flint, trembling, woke to find that his fingers still moved, the pains in his
legs were no worse than usual.

Sturm woke in panic. Shaking with terror, for long moments he could only
crouch beneath his blankets, shuddering. Then he heard something outside his
tent. Starting up, hand on his sword, he crept forward and threw open the tent
flap.

"Oh!" Laurana gasped at the sight of his haggard face.

"I'm sorry." Sturm said. "I didn't mean-" Then he saw she was shaking so she
could scarcely hold her candle. "What is it?"' he asked, alarmed, drawing her
out of the cold.

"I-I know this sounds silly," Laurana said, flushing, "but I had the most
frightening dream and I couldn't sleep."
Shivering, she allowed Sturm to lead her inside the tent. The flame of her
candle cast leaping shadows around the tent. Sturm, afraid she might drop it,
took it from her.

"I didn't mean to wake you, but I heard you call out. And my dream was so
real! You were in it-I saw you-"

"What is Silvanesti like?" Sturm interrupted abruptly.

Laurana stared at him. "But that's where I dreamed we were! Why did you ask?
Unless . . . you dreamed of Silvanesti, too!"

Sturm wrapped his cloak around him, nodding. "I-" he began, then heard another
noise outside the tent. This time, he just opened the tent flap. "Come in,
Flint," he said wearily.

The dwarf stumped inside, his face flushed. He seemed embarrassed to find
Laurana there, however, and stammered and stamped until Laurana smiled at him.

"We know," she said. "You had a dream. Silvanesti?"

Flint coughed, clearing his throat and wiping his face with his hand.
"Apparently I'm not the only one?" he asked, staring narrowly at the other two
from beneath his bushy eyebrows. "I suppose you-you want me to tell you what I
dreamed?"

"No!" Sturm said hurriedly, his face pale. "No, I do not want to talk about
it-ever!"

"Nor I," Laurana said softly.

Hesitantly, Flint patted her shoulder. "I'm glad." he said gruffly. "I
couldn't talk about mine either. I just wanted to see if it was a dream. It
seemed so real I expected to find you both-" The dwarf stopped. There was a
rustling sound outside, then Tasslehoff burst excitedly through the tent flag.

"Did I hear you talking about a dream? I newer dream-at least not that I
remember. Kender don't, much. Oh, I suppose we do. Even animals dream, but-"
He caught Flint's eve and came hurriedly back to the original subject. "Well!
I had the most fantastic dream! Trees crying blood. Horrible dead elves going
around killing people! Raistlin wearing black robes! It was the most
incredible thing! And you were there, Sturm. Laurana and Flint. And everyone
died! Well, almost everyone. Raistlin didn't. And there was a green dragon-'

Tasslehoff stopped. What was wrong with his friends? Their faces were deathly
pale, their eyes wide. "Green dragon," he stammered. "Raistlin, dressed in
black. Did I mention that? Quite becoming, actually. Red always makes him look
kind of jaundiced, if you know what I mean. You don't. Well, I g-guess I'll go
back to bed. If you don't want to hear anymore?" He looked around hopefully.
No one answered.

"Well, g-night," he mumbled. Backing out of the tent precipitously, he
returned to his bed, shaking his head, puzzled. What was the matter with
everyone? It was only a dream.

For long moments, no one spoke. Then Flint sighed. "I don't mind having a
nightmare." the dwarf said dourly. "But I object to sharing it with a kender.
How do you suppose we all came to have the same dream? And what does it mean?"

"A strange land- Silvanesti." Laurana said. Taking her candle, she started to
leave. Then she looked back. "Do you-do you think it was real? Did they die,
as we saw?" Was Tanis with that human woman? she thought, but didn't ask
aloud.

"We're here." said Sturm. "We didn't die. We can only trust the others didn't
either. And-" he paused-"this seems funny, but somehow I know they're all
right."

Laurana looked at the knight intently for a moment, saw his grave face calm
after the initial shock and horror had worn off. She felt herself relax.
Reaching out, she took Sturm's strong lean hand in her own and pressed it
silently. Then she turned and left, slipping back into the starlit night.

The dwarf rose to his feet. "Well, so much for sleep. I'll take my turn at
watch now."

"I'll join you." said Sturm, standing and buckling on his swordbelt.

"I suppose we'll never know," Flint said, "why or how we all dreamed the same
dream."

"I suppose not," Sturm agreed.

The dwarf walked out of the tent. Sturm started to follow, then stopped as his
eyes caught a glimpse of light. Thinking perhaps that a bit of wick had fallen
from Laurana's candle, he bent down to put it out, only to find instead that
the jewel Alhana had given him had slipped from his belt and lay upon the
ground. Picking it up, he noticed it was gleaming with its own inner light,
something he'd never seen it do before.

"I suppose not." Sturm repeated thoughtfully, turning the jewel over and over
in his hand.

Morning dawned in Silvanesti for the first time in many long, horrifying
months. But only one saw it. Lorac, watching from his bedchamber window, saw
the sun rise above the glistening aspens. The others, worn out, slept soundly.

Alhana had not left her father's side all night. But exhaustion had
overwhelmed her, and she fell asleep sitting in her chair. Lorac saw the pale
sunlight light her face. Her long black hair fell across her face like cracks
in white marble. Her skin was torn by thorns, caked with dried blood. He saw
beauty, but that beauty was marred by arrogance. She was the epitome of her
people. Turning back, he looked outside into Silvanesti, but found no comfort
there. A green, noxious mist still hung over Silvanesti, as though the ground
itself was rotting.

"This is my doing." he said to himself, his eyes lingering on the twisted,
tortured trees, the pitiful misshapen beasts that roamed the land, seeking an
end to their torment.

For over four hundred years, Lorac had lived in this land. He had watched it
take shape and flower beneath his hands and the hands of his people.
There had been times of trouble, too. Lorac was one of the few still living on
Krynn to remember the Cataclysm. But the Silvanesti elves had survived it far
better than others in the world-being estranged from other races. They knew
why the ancient gods left Krynn-they saw the evil in humankind although they
could not explain why the elven clerics vanished as well.

The elves of Silvanesti heard, of course, via the winds and birds and other
mysterious ways, of the sufferings of their cousins, the Qualinesti, following
the Cataclysm. And, though grieved at the tales of rapine and murder, the
Silvanesti asked themselves what could one expect, living among humans? They
withdrew into their forest, renouncing the outside world and caring little
that the outside world renounced them.

Thus Lorac had found it impossible to understand this new evil sweeping out of
the north, threatening his homeland. Why should they bother the Silvanesti? He
met with the Dragon Highlords, explaining to them that the Silvanesti would
give them no trouble. The elves believed everyone had the right to live upon
Krynn, each in his own unique fashion, evil and good. He talked and they
listened and, at first, all seemed well. Then the day came when Lorac realized
he had been deceived-the day the skies erupted with dragons.

The elves were not, after all, caught unprepared. Lorac had lived too long for
that. Ships waited to take the people to safety. Lorac ordered them to depart
under his daughter's command. Then, when he was alone, he descended to the
chambers beneath the Tower of the Stars where he had secreted the dragon orb.

Only his daughter and the long-lost elven clerics knew of the orb's existence.
All others in the world believed it destroyed in the Cataclysm. Lorac sat
beside it, staring at it for long days. He recalled the warnings of the High
Mages, bringing to mind everything he could remember about the orb. Finally,
though fully aware that he had no idea how it worked, Lorac decided he had to
use it to try and save his land.

He remembered the globe vividly, remembered it burning with a swirling,
fascinating green light that pulsed and strengthened as he looked at it. And
he remembered knowing, almost from the first seconds he had rested his fingers
on the globe, that he had made a terrible mistake. He had neither the strength
nor the control to command the magic. But by then, it was too late. The orb
had captured him and held him enthralled, and it had been the most hideous
part of his nightmare to be constantly reminded that he was dreaming, yet
unable to break free.

And now the nightmare had become waking reality. Lorac bowed his head, tasting
bitter tears in his mouth. Then he felt gentle hands upon his shoulders.

"Father, I cannot bear to see you weep. Come away from the window. Come to
bed. The land will be beautiful once more in time. You will help to shape it-"

But Alhana could not look out the window without a shudder. Lorac felt her
tremble and he smiled sadly.

"Will our people return, Alhana?" He stared out into the green that was not
the vibrant green of life but that of death and decay.

"Of course," Alhana said quickly.

Lorac patted her hand. "A lie, my child? Since when have the elves lied to
each other?"

"I think perhaps we may have always lied to ourselves," Alhana murmured,
recalling what she had learned of Goldmoon's teaching. "The ancient gods did
not abandon Krynn, Father. A cleric of Mishakal the Healer traveled with us
and told us of what she had learned. I-I did not want to believe, Father. I
was jealous. She is a human, after all, and why should the gods come to the
humans with this hope? But I see now, the gods are wise. They came to humans
because we elves. would not accept them. Through our grief, living in this
place of desolation, we will learn-as you and I have learned-that we can no
longer live within the world and live apart from the world. The elves will
work to rebuild not only this land, but all lands ravaged by the evil."

Lorac listened. His eyes turned from the tortured landscape to his daughter's
face, pale and radiant as the silver moon, and he reached out his hand to
touch her.

"You will bring them back? Our people?"

"Yes, Father." she promised, taking his cold, fleshless hand in her own and
holding it fast. "We will work and toil. We will ask forgiveness of the gods.
We will go out among the peoples of Krynn and-" Tears flooded her eyes and
choked her voice, for she saw Lorac could no longer hear her. His eyes dimmed,
and he began to sink back in the chair.

"I give myself to the land," he whispered. "Bury my body in the soil,
daughter. As my life brought this curse upon it, so, perhaps, my death will
bring its blessing."

Lorac's hand slipped from his daughter's grasp. His lifeless eyes stared out
into the tormented land of Silvanesti. But the look of horror on his face
faded away, leaving it filled with peace.

And Alhana could not grieve.

That night, the companions prepared to leave Silvanesti.

They were to travel under the cover of darkness for much of their journey
north, since by now they knew the dragonarmies controlled the lands they must
pass through. They had no maps to guide them. They feared trusting ancient
maps anymore, after their experience with the landlocked seaport city Tarsis.
But the only maps that could be found in Silvanesti dated back thousands of
years. The companions decided to travel north from Silvanesti blindly, with
some hope of discovering a seaport where they could find passage to Sancrist.
They traveled lightly, so they could travel swiftly. Besides, there was little
to take; the elves had stripped their country bare of food and supplies when
they left.

The mage took possession of the dragon orb-a charge no one disputed him. Tanis
at first despaired of how they could carry the massive crystal with them-it
was nearly two feet in diameter and extraordinarily heavy. But the evening
before they left, Alhana came to Raistlin, a small sack in her hand.
"My father carried the orb in this sack. I always thought it odd, considering
the orb's size, but he said the sack was given to him in the Tower of High
Sorcery. Perhaps this will help you."

The mage reached out his thin hand to grasp it eagerly.

"Jistrah tagopar Ast moirparann Kini," he murmured and watched in satisfaction
as the nondescript bag began to glow with a pale pink light.
"Yes, it is enchanted." he whispered. Then he lifted his gaze to Caramon. "Go
and bring me the orb."

Caramon's eyes opened wide in horror. "Not for any treasure in this world!"
the big man said with an oath.

"Bring me the orb!" Raistlin ordered, staring angrily at his brother, who
still shook his head.

"Oh, don't be a fool, Caramon!" Raistlin snapped in exasperation. "The orb
cannot hurt those who do not attempt to use it. Believe me, my dear brother,
you do not have the power to control a cockroach, let alone a dragon orb!"

"But it might trap me," Caramon protested.

"Bah! It seeks those with-" Raistlin stopped suddenly.

"Yes?" Tanis said quietly. "Go on. Who does it seek?"

"People with intelligence." Raistlin snarled. "Therefore I believe the members
of this party are safe. Bring me the orb, Caramon, or perhaps you want to
carry it yourself? Or you, Half-Elf? Or you, cleric of Mishakal?"

Caramon glanced uncomfortably at Tanis, and the half-elf realized that the big
man was seeking his approval. It was an odd move for the twin, who had always
done what Raistlin commanded without question.

Tanis saw that he wasn't the only one who noticed Caramon's mute appeal.
Raistlin's eyes glittered in rage.

Now more than ever, Tanis felt wary of the mage, distrusting Raistlin's
strange and growing power. It's illogical, he argued with himself. A reaction
to a nightmare, nothing mare. But that didn't solve his problem. What should
he do about the dragon orb? Actually, he realized ruefully, he had little
choice.

"Raistlin's the only one with the knowledge and the skill and-let's face
it-the guts to handle that thing." Tanis said grudgingly. "I say he should
take it, unless one of you wants the responsibility?"

No one spoke, though Riverwind shook his head, frowning darkly. Tanis knew the
Plainsman would leave the orb-and Raistlin as well-here in Silvanesti if he
had the choice.

"Go ahead, Caramon," Tanis said. "You're the only one strong enough to lift
it."

Reluctantly, Caramon went to fetch the orb from its golden stand. His hands
shook as he reached out to touch it, but, when he laid his hands upon it,
nothing happened. The globe did not change in appearance. Sighing in relief,
Caramon lifted the orb, grunting from the weight, and carried it back to his
brother, who held the sack open.

"Drop it in the bag," Raistlin ordered.

"What?" Caramon's jaw sagged as he stared from: the giant orb to the small bag
in the mage's frail hands. "I can't, Raist! It won't fit in there! It'll
smash!"

The big man fell silent as Raistlin's eyes flared golden in the dying light of
day.

"No! Caramon, wait!" Tanis leaped forward, but this time Caramon did as
Raistlin commanded. Slowly, his eyes held fast by his brother's intense gaze,
Caramon dropped the dragon orb.

The orb vanished!

"What? Where-" Tanis glared at Raistlin suspiciously.

"In the sack," the mage replied calmly, holding forth the small bag. "See for
yourself, if you do not trust me."

Tanis peered into the bag. The orb was inside and it was the true dragon orb,
all right. He had no doubt. He could see the swirling mist of green, as though
some faint life stirred within. It must have shrunk, he thought in awe, but
the orb appeared to be the same size as always, giving Tanis the fearful
impression that it was he who had grown.

Shuddering, Tanis stepped back. Raistlin gave the drawstring on the top of the
bag a quick jerk, snapping it shut. Then, glancing at them distrustfully, he
slipped the bag within his robes, secreting it in one of his numerous hidden
pockets, and began to turn away. But Tanis stopped him.

"Things can never again be the same between us, can they?" the half-elf asked
quietly.

Raistlin looked at him for a moment, and Tanis saw a brief flicker of regret
in the young mage's eyes, a longing for trust and friendship and a return to
the days of youth.

"No." Raistlin whispered. "But such was the price I paid." He began to cough.

"Price? To whom? For what?"

"Do not question, Half-Elf." The mage's thin shoulders bent with coughing.
Caramon put his strong arm around his brother and Raistlin leaned weakly
against his twin. When he recovered from the spasm, he lifted his golden eyes.
"I cannot tell you the answer, Tanis, because I do not know it myself."

Then, bowing his head, he let Caramon lead him away to   I
find what rest he could before their journey.

"I wish you would reconsider and let us assist you in the funeral rites for
your father." Tanis said to Alhana as she stood in the door of the Tower of
the Stars to bid them farewell. "A day will not make a difference to us."

"Yes, let us," Goldmoon entreated earnestly. "I know much about this from our
people, for our burial customs are similar to yours, if Tanis has told me
correctly. I was priestess in my tribe, and I presided over the wrapping of
the body in the spiced cloths that will preserve it-"
"No, my friends." Alhana said firmly, her face pale. "It was my father's wish
that I-I do this alone."

This was not quite true, but Alhana knew how shocked these people would be at
the sight of her father's body being consigned to the ground-a custom
practiced only by goblins and other evil creatures. The thought appalled her.
Involuntarily her gaze was drawn to the tortured and twisted tree that was to
mark his grave, standing over it like some fearful carrion bird. Quickly she
looked away, her voice faltered.

"His tomb is-is long prepared and I have some experience of these things
myself. Do not worry about me, please."

Tanis saw the agony in her face, but he could not refuse to honor her request.

"We understand," Goldmoon said. Then, on impulse, the Que-shu Plainswoman put
her arms around the elven princess and held her as she might have held a lost
and frightened child. Alhana stiffened at first, then relaxed in Goldmoon's
compassionate embrace.

"Be at peace," Goldmoon whispered, stroking back Alhana's dark hair from her
face. Then the Plainswoman left.

"After you bury your father, what then?" Tanis asked as he and Alhana stood
alone together on the steps of the Tower.

"I will return to my people," Alhana replied gravely. "The griffons will come
to me, now that the evil in this land is gone, and they will take me to
Ergoth. We will do what we can to help defeat this evil, then we will come
home."

Tanis glanced around Silvanesti. Horrifying as it was in the daytime, its
terrors at night were beyond description.

"I know." Alhana said in answer to his unspoken thoughts. "This will be our
penance."

Tanis raised his eyebrows skeptically, knowing the fight she had ahead of her
to get her people to return. Then he saw the conviction on Alhana's face. He
gave her even odds.
Smiling, he changed the subject. "And will you find time to go to Sancrist?"
he asked. "The knights would be honored by your presence. Particularly one of
them."

Alhana's pale face flushed.   "Perhaps." she said, barely speaking above a
whisper. "I cannot say yet.   I have learned many things about myself. But it
will take me a long lime to   make these things a part of me." She shook her
head, sighing. "It may be I   can never truly be comfortable with them."

"Like learning to love a human?"
 Alhana lifted her head, her clear eyes looked into Tanis's.

"Would he be happy, Tanis? Away from his homeland, for I must return to
Silvanesti? And could I be happy, knowing that I must watch him age and die
while I am still in my youth?"

"I asked myself these same questions, Alhana," Tanis said, thinking with pain
of the decision he had reached concerning Kitiara. "If we deny love that is
given to us, if we refuse to give love because we fear the pain of loss, then
our lives will be
empty, our loss greater."

"I wondered, when first we met, why these people follow you, Tanis
Half-Elven," Alhana said softly. "Now I understand. I will consider your
words. Farewell, until your life's journey's end."

"Farewell, Alhana," Tanis answered, taking the hand she extended to him. He
could find nothing more to say, and so turned and left her. But he could not
help wondering, as he did, that if he was so damn wise, why was his life in
such a mess?

Tanis joined the companions at the edge of the forest. For a moment they stood
there, reluctant to enter the woods of Silvanesti. Although they knew the evil
was gone, the thought of traveling for days among the twisted, tortured forest
was a somber one. But they had no choice. Already they felt the sense of
urgency that had driven them this far. Time was sifting through the hourglass,
and they knew they could not let the sands run out, although they had no idea
why.

"Come, my brother." said Raistlin finally. The mage led the way into the
woods, the Staff of Magius shedding its pale light as he walked.

Caramon followed, with a sigh. One by one the others trailed after. Tanis
alone turned to look back. They would not see the moons tonight. The land was
covered with a heavy darkness as if it too mourned Lorac's death.

Alhana stood in the doorway to the Tower of the Stars, her body framed by the
Tower, which glimmered in the light of moonrays captured ages ago. Only
Alhana's face was visible in the shadows, like the ghost of the silver moon.
Tanis caught a glimpse of movement. She raised her hand and there was a brief,
clear flash of pure white light-the Starjewel. And then she was gone.


Book 2()


The story of the companions' journey to Ice Wall Castle and their defeat of
the evil Dragon Highlord, Feal-thas, became legend among the Ice Barbarians
who inhabit that desolate land. It is still told by the village cleric on long
winter nights when heroic deeds are remembered and songs are sung.

SONG OF THE ICE REAVER
I am the one who brought them back. I am Raggart I am telling you this. Snow
upon snow cancels the signals of ice
Over the snow the sun bleeds whiteness
In cold light forever unbearable.
And if I do not tell you this
The snow descends on the deeds of heroes
And their strength in my singing
Lies down in a core of frost rising no more
No more as the lost breath crumbles.

Seven they were from the hot lands (I am the one who brought them back)
Four swordsmen sworn in the North
The elf-woman Laurana
The dwarf from the floes of stone
The kender small-boned as a hawk.
Riding three blades they came to the tunnel
To the throat of the only castle.
Down among Thanoi the old guardians
Where their swordsmen carved hot air
Finding tendon finding bone
As the tunnels melted red.
Down upon minotaur upon ice bear
And the swords whistled again
Bright on the corner of madness
The tunnel knee-high in arms
In claws in unspeakable things
As the swordsmen descended
Bright steam freezing behind them.

Then to the chambers at the castle heart
Where Feal-thas awaited lord of dragons and wolves
Armored in white that is nothing
That covers the ice as the sun bleeds whiteness.
And he called on the wolves the baby-stealers
Who suckled on murder in the lairs of ancestors.
Around the heroes a circle of knives of craving
As the wolves stalked in their master's eye.

And Aran the first to break the circle
Hot wind at the throat of Feal-thas
Brought down and unraveled
In the reel of the hunt perfected.
Brian the next when the sword of the wolf lord
Sent him seeking the wane lands.
All stood frozen in the wheel of razors
All stood frozen except for Laurana.
Blind in a hot light flashing the crown of the mind
Where death melts in a diving sun
She takes up the Ice Reaver
And over the boil of wolves over the slaughter
Bearing a blade of ice bearing darkness
She opened the throat of the wolf lord
And the wolves fell silent as the head collapsed.

The rest is short in the telling.
Destroying the eggs the violent get of the dragons
 A tunnel of scales and ordure
Followed into the terrible larder
Followed further followed to treasure.
There the orb danced blue danced white
Swelled like a heart in its endless beating (They let me hold it I brought
them back).
Out from the tunnel blood on blood under the ice
Bearing their own incredible burden
The young knights silent and tattered
They came five now only
The kender last small pockets bulging.
I am Raggart I am telling you this.
I am the one who brought them back.


The flight from Ice Hall.

The old dwarf lay dying.

His limbs would no longer support him. His bowels and stomach twisted together
like snakes. Waves of nausea broke over him. He could not even raise his head
from his bunk. He stared above him at an oil lamp swinging slowly overhead.
The lamp's light seemed to be getting dimmer. This is it, thought the dwarf.
The end. The darkness is creeping over my eyes ....

He heard a noise near him, a creaking of wooden planks as if someone were very
quietly stealing up on him. Feebly, Flint managed to turn his head.

"Who is it?" he croaked.

"Tasslehoff," whispered a solicitous voice. Flint sighed and reached out a
gnarled hand. Tas's hand closed over his own.

"Ah, lad. I'm glad you've come in time to say farewell." said the dwarf
weakly. "I'm dying, lad. I'm going to Reorx-'

"What?" asked Tas, leaning closer.

"Reorx." repeated the dwarf irritably. "I'm going to the arms of Reorx."

"No, we're not," said Tas. "We're going to Sancrist. Unless you're mean an
inn. I'll ask Sturm. The Reorx Arms. Hmmm-"

"Reorx, the God of the Dwarves, you doorknob!" Flint roared.

"Oh." said Tas after a moment. "That Reorx."

"Listen, lad." Flint said more calmly, determined to leave no hard feelings
behind. "I want you to have my helm. The one you brought me in Xak Tsaroth,
with the griffon's mane."

"Do you really?" Tas asked, impressed. "That's awfully nice of you, Flint, but
what will you do for a helm?"

"Ah, lad, I won't need a helm where I'm going."

"You might in Sancrist," Tas said dubiously. "Derek thinks the Dragon
Highlords are preparing to launch a full-scaled attack, and I think a helm
could come in handy-"

"I'm not talking about Sancrist!" Flint snarled, struggling to sit up. "I
won't need a helm because I'm dying!"

"I nearly died once." Tas said solemnly. Setting a steaming bowl on a table,
he settled back comfortably in a chair to relate his story. "It was that time
in Tarsis when the dragon knocked the building down on top of me. Elistan said
I was nearly a goner. Actually those weren't his exact words, but he said it
was only through the inter . . . interces . . . oh well,
intersomething-or-other of the gods that I'm here today."

Flint gave a mighty groan and fell back limply on his bunk. "Is it too much to
ask," he said to the lamp swinging above his head, "that I be allowed to die
in peace? Not surrounded by kenders!" This last was practically a shriek.

"Oh, come now. You're not dying, you know," Tas said. "You're only seasick."

"I'm dying," the dwarf said stubbornly. "I've been infected with a serious
disease and now I'm dying. And on your heads be it. You dragged me onto this
confounded boat-"
"Ship." interrupted Tas.

"Boat!" repeated Flint furiously. "You dragged me onto this confounded boat,
then left me to perish of some terrible disease in a rat-infested bedroom-"

"We could have left you back in Ice Wall, you know, with the walrus-men and-"
Tasslehoff stopped.

Flint was once again struggling to sit up, but this time there was a wild look
in his eyes. The kender rose to his feet and began edging his way toward the
door. "Uh, I guess I better be going. I just came down here to-uh-see if you
wanted anything to eat. The ship's cook made something he calls green pea
soup."

Laurana, huddled out of the wind on the foredeck, started as she heard the
most frightful roaring sound come from below decks, followed by the cracking
of smashed crockery. She glanced at Sturm, who was standing near her. The
knight smiled.
"Flint." he said.

"Yes," Laurana said, worried. "Perhaps I should-'

She was interrupted by the appearance of Tasslehoff dripping with green pea
soup.

"I think Flint's feeling better." Tasslehoff said solemnly. "But he's not
quite ready to eat anything yet."

The journey from Ice Wall had been swift. Their small ship fairly flew through
the sea waters, carried north by the currents and the strong, cold prevailing
winds.
The companions had traveled to Ice Wall where, according to Tasslehoff, a
dragon orb was kept in Ice Wall Castle. They found the orb and defeated its
evil guardian, Feal-thas-a powerful Dragonlord. Escaping the destruction of
the castle with the help of the Ice Barbarians, they were now on a ship bound
for Sancrist. Although the precious dragon orb was stowed safely in a chest
below decks, the horrors of their journey to Ice Wall still tormented their
dreams at night.

But the nightmares of Ice Wall were nothing compared to that strange and vivid
dream they had experienced well over a month ago. None of them referred to it,
but Laurana occasionally saw a look of fear and loneliness-unusual to
Sturm-that made her think he might be recalling the dream as well.

Other than that the party was in good spirits-except the dwarf, who had been
hauled on the ship bodily and was promptly seasick. The journey to Ice Wall
had been an undoubted victory. Along with the dragon orb, they carried away
with them the broken shaft of an ancient weapon, believed to be a dragonlance.
And they carried something more important, though they did not realize it at
the time they found.

The companions, accompanied by Derek Crownguard and the other two young
knights who had joined them at Tarsis, had been searching Ice Wall castle for
the dragon orb. The search had not gone well. Time and again they had fought
off the evil walrus-men, winter wolves, and bears. The companions began to
think they may have come here for nothing, but Tas swore that the book he read
in Tarsis said there was an orb located here. So they kept looking.

It was during their search that they came upon a startling sight-a huge
dragon, over forty feet long, its skin a shimmering silver, completely encased
in a wall of ice. The dragon's wings were spread, poised for flight. The
dragon's expression was fierce, but his head was noble, and he did not inspire
them with the fear and loathing they remembered experiencing around the red
dragons. Instead, they felt a great, overwhelming sorrow for this magnificent
creature.

But strangest to them was the fact that this dragon had a rider! They had seen
the Dragon Highlords ride their dragons, but this man appeared by his ancient
armor to have been a Knight of Solamnia! Held tightly in his gloved hand was
the broken shaft of what must have been a large lance.

"Why would a Knight of Solamnia be riding a dragon?" Laurana asked, thinking
of the Dragon Highlords.

"There have been knights who turned to evil." Lord Derek Crownguard said
harshly. "Though it shames me to admit it."

"I get no feeling of evil here," Elistan said. "Only a great sorrow. I wonder
how they died. I see no wounds-"

"This seems familiar." Tasslehoff interrupted, frowning. "Like a picture. A
knight riding a silver dragon. I've seen-"

"Bah!" Flint snorted. "You've seen furry elephants-"

"I'm serious." Tas protested.

"Where was it, Tas?" Laurana asked gently, seeing a hurt expression on the
kender's face. "Can you remember?"

"I think . . ." Tasslehoff's eyes lost their focus. "It puts me in mind of Pax
Tharkas and Fizban. . . ."

"Fizban!" Flint exploded. "That old mage was crazier than Raistlin, if that's
possible."

"I don't know what Tas is talking about." Sturm said, gazing up at the dragon
and its rider thoughtfully. "But I remember my mother telling me that Huma
rode upon a Silver Dragon, carrying the Dragonlance, in his final battle."

"And I remember my mother telling me to leave sweetcakes for the white-robed
Old One who came to our castle at Yuletime," scoffed Derek. "No, this is
undoubtedly some renegade Knight, enslaved by evil."
Derek and the other two young knights turned to go, but the rest lingered,
staring up at the figure on the dragon.

"You're right, Sturm. That's a dragonlance." Tas said wistfully. "I don't know
how I know, but I'm sure of it."

"Did you see it in the book in Tarsis?" Sturm asked, exchanging glances with
Laurana, each of them thinking that the kender's seriousness was unusual, even
frightening.

Tas shrugged. "I don't know," he said in a small voice. "I'm sorry."

"Maybe we should take it with us," Laurana suggested uneasily. "It couldn't
hurt."

"Come along, Brightblade!" Derek's voice came back to them, echoing sternly.
"The Thanoi may have lost us for the moment, but they'll discover our trail
before long."

"How can we get it?" Sturm asked, ignoring Derek's order. "It's encased in ice
at least three feet thick!"

"I can," Gilthanas said.

Jumping up onto the huge cliff of ice that had formed around the dragon and
its rider, the elf found a handhold and began to inch his way up the monument.
From the dragon's frozen wing, he was able to crawl along on his hands and
knees until he came to the lance, clutched in the rider's hand. Gilthanas
pressed his hand against the ice wall covering the lance and spoke the
strange, spidery language of magic.

A red glow spread from the elf's hand to the ice, melting it away rapidly.
Within moments, he was able to reach his hand through the hole to grasp the
lance. But it was held fast in the dead knight's hand.

Gilthanas tugged and even tried to pry the frozen fingers of the hand loose.
Finally he could stand the cold of the ice no longer and dropped, shivering,
back down to the ground. "There's no way." he said. "He's got it gripped
tight."

"Break the fingers-" suggested Tas helpfully.

Sturm silenced the kender with a furious look. "I wilt not have his body
desecrated." he snapped. "Maybe we can slide the lance out of his hand. I'll
try-"

"No good," Gilthanas told his sister as they watched Sturm climb up the side
of the ice. "It's as if the lance has become part of the hand. I-" The elf
stopped.

As Sturm put his hand through the hole in the ice and took hold of the lance,
the icebound figure of the knight seemed to move suddenly, just slightly. Its
stiff and frozen hand relaxed its grip on the shattered lance. Sturm nearly
fell in his amazement, and, letting go of the weapon hurriedly, he backed away
along the dragon's ice-coated wing.

"He's giving it to you," cried Laurana. "Go ahead, Sturm! Take it! Don't you
see-he's giving it to another knight."

"Which I'm not," Sturm said bitterly. "But perhaps that's indicative, perhaps
it is evil-" Hesitantly, he slid back to the hole and grasped the lance once
more. The stiff hand of the dead knight released its grip. Taking hold of the
broken weapon, Sturm carefully brought it out of the ice. He jumped back to
the ground and stood staring at the ancient shaft.

"That was wonderful!" Tas said in awe. "Flint, did you see the corpse come
alive?"

"No!" snapped the dwarf. "And neither did you. Let's get out of here," he
added, shivering.

Then Derek appeared. "I gave you an order, Sturm Brightblade! What's the
delay?" Derek's face darkened wrath anger as he saw the lance.

"I asked him to get it for me." Laurana said, her voice as cool as the wall of
ice behind her. Taking the lance, she began to wrap it swiftly in a fur cloak
from her pack.
Derek regarded her angrily for a moment, then bowed stiffly and turned on his
heel.

"Dead knights, live knights, I don't know who's worse," Flint grumbled,
grabbing Tas and dragging him along after Derek.

 "What if it is a weapon of evil?" Sturm asked Laurana in a low voice as they
traveled the icy corridors of the castle.

 Laurana looked back one final time at the dead knight mounted on the dragon.
The cold pale sun of the southland was setting, its light casting watery
shadows across the corpses, giving them a sinister aspect. Even as she
watched, she thought she saw the body slump lifelessly.

 "Do you believe the story of Huma?" Laurana asked softly.

"I don't know what to believe anymore." Sturm said, bitterness hardening his
voice. "Everything used to be black and a white for me, all things clear-cut
and well-defined. I believed in the story of Huma. My mother taught it to me
as the truth. Then I went to Solamnia." He paused, as if unwilling to
continue. Finally, seeing Laurana's face filled with interest and compassion,
he swallowed and went on. "I never told anyone this, not even Tanis. When I
returned to my homeland, I found that the Knighthood was not the order of
honorable, self sacrificing men my mother had described. It was rife with
political intrigue. The best of the men were like Derek, honorable, but strict
and unbending, with little use for those they consider beneath them. The
worst-" He shook his head. "When I spoke of Huma, they laughed. An itinerant
knight, they called him. According to their story, he was cast out of the
order for disobeying its laws. Huma roamed the countryside, they said,
endearing himself to peasants, who thus began to create leg
ends about him."

 "But did he really exist?" Laurana persisted, saddened by the sorrow in
Sturm's face.

 "Oh, yes. Of that there can be no doubt. The records that survived the
Cataclysm list his name among the lower orders of the knights. But the story
of the Silver Dragon, the Final Battle, even the Dragonlance itself-no one
believes anymore. Like Derek says, there is no proof. The tomb of Huma,
according to the legend, was a towering structure-one of the wonders of the
world. But you can find no one who has ever seen it. All we have are
children's stories, as Raistlin would say." Sturm put his hand to his face,
covering his eyes, and gave a deep, shuddering sigh. "Do you know," he said
softly, "I never thought I'd say it, but I miss Raistlin. I miss all of them.
I feel as if a part of me's been cut off, and that's how I felt when I was in
Solamnia. That's why I came back, instead of waiting and completing the tests
for my knighthood. These people-my friends-were doing more to combat evil in
the world than all the Knights lined up in a row. Even Raistlin, in some way I
can't understand. He could tell us what all this means." He jerked his thumb
back at the ice-encased knight. "At least he would believe in it. If he were
here. If Tanis were here-" Sturm could not go on.

"Yes," Laurana said quietly. "If Tanis were here-"

Remembering her great sorrow, so much greater than his own, Sturm put his arm
around Laurana and held her close. The two stood for a moment, each comforted
for their losses by the other's presence. Then Derek's voice came sharply back
to them, reprimanding them for lagging behind.
And now, the broken lance, wrapped in Laurana's fur cloak, lay in the chest
with the dragon orb and Wyrmslayer, Tanis's sword, which Laurana and Sturm had
carried with them from Tarsis. Beside the chest lay the bodies of the two
young knights, who had given their lives in defense of the group, and who were
being carried back to be buried in their homeland.

The strong southern wind, blowing swift and cold from the glaciers, propelled
the ship across the Sirrion Sea. The captain said that, if the winds held,
they might make Sancrist in two days.

"That way lies Southern Ergoth." The captain told Elistan, pointing off to
starboard. "We'll be just coming up on the south end of it. This nightfall,
you'll see the Isle of Cristyne. There, with a fair wind, we'll be in
Sancrist. Strange thing about Southern Ergoth," the captain added, glancing at
Laurana, "it's filled with elves, they say, though I haven't been there to
know if that's true."

"Elves!" said Laurana eagerly, coming forward to stand beside the captain, the
early morning wind whipping her cloak.

"Fled their homeland, so I heard," the captain continued. "Driven off by the
dragonarmies."

"Perhaps it's our people!" Laurana said, clutching at Gilthanas, who stood
next to her. She gazed out over the born of the ship intently, as if she could
will the land to appear.

"Most likely the Silvanesti," Gilthanas said. "In fact, I think Lady Alhana
may have mentioned something about Ergoth. Do you remember, Sturm?"

"No," the knight answered abruptly. Turning and walking over to the port side
of the ship, he leaned against the railing, staring out across the pink-tinged
sea. Laurana saw him pull something from his belt and run his fingers over it
lovingly. There was a bright flash, as it caught the sun's rays, then he
slipped it back into his belt. His head bowed. Laurana started to go to him
when suddenly she stopped, catching a glimpse of movement.

"What kind of strange cloud is that to the south?"

The captain turned immediately, whipping his spyglass out of the pocket of his
fur parka and placing it to his eye. "Send a man aloft," he snapped to his
first mate.

Within moments, a sailor was scampering up the rigging. Clinging to the
dizzying heights of the mast with one arm, he peered south through the
spyglass.

"Can you make it out?" the captain called aloft.

"No, capt'n." the man bellowed. "If it's a cloud, it's like none I've seen
afore."

"I'll look!" volunteered Tasslehoff eagerly. The kender began to climb the
ropes as skillfully as the sailor. Reaching the mast, he clung to the rigging
near the man and stared south.

It certainly seemed to be a cloud. It was huge and white and appeared to be
floating above the water. But it was moving much more rapidly than any other
cloud in the sky and
Tasslehoff gasped. "Let me borrow that," he asked, holding out his hand for
the watch's spyglass. Reluctantly, the man gave it to him. Tas put it to his
eye, then he groaned softly. "Oh, dear." he muttered. Lowering the spyglass,
he shut it up with a snap and absently stuffed it into his tunic. The sailor
caught him by the collar as he was about to slide down.

"What?" Tas said, startled. "Oh! Is that yours? Sorry." Giving the spyglass a
wistful pat, he handed it back to the sailor. Tas slid skillfully down the
ropes, landed lightly on the deck, and came running over to Sturm.

"It's a dragon." he reported breathlessly.


The White Dragon. Captured!


The dragon's nave was Sleet. She was a white dragon, a species of dragon
smaller than other dragons dwelling in Krynn. Born and bred in the arctic
regions, these dragons were able to withstand extreme cold, and controlled the
ice-bound southern regions of Ansalon.

Because of their smaller size, the white dragons were the swiftest flyers of
all dragonkind. The Dragon Highlords often used them for scouting missions.
Thus Sleet had been away from her lair in Ice Wall when the companions,
entered it in search of the dragon orb. The Dark Queen had received a report
that Silvanesti had been invaded by a group of adventurers. They had
managed-somehow-to defeat Cyan Bloodbane and were reportedly in possession of
a dragon orb.

The Dark Queen guessed they might be traveling across the Plains of Dust,
along the Kings Road, which was the most direct overland route to Sancrist
where the Knights of Solamnia were reportedly trying to regroup. The Dark
Queen ordered Sleet and her flight of white dragons to speed north to the
Plains of Dust, now lying under a thick, heavy blanket of packed snow, to find
the orb.

Seeing the snow glistening beneath her, Sleet doubted very much if even humans
would be foolhardy enough to attempt to cross the wasteland. But she had her
orders and she followed them. Scattering her flight, Sleet scoured every inch
of land from the borders of Silvanesti on the east to the Kharolis Mountains
on the west. A few of her dragons even flew as far north as New Coast, which
was held by the blues.

The dragons met to report that they had seen no sign of any living being on
the Plains when Sleet received word that danger had marched in the back door
while she was out scouting the front.

Furious, Sleet flew back but arrived too late. Feal-thas was dead, the dragon
orb missing. But her walrus-men allies, the Thanoi, were able to describe the
group who had committed this heinous act. They even pointed out the direction
their ship had sailed, although there was only one direction any ship could
sail from Ice Wall-north.

Sleet reported the loss of the dragon orb to her Dark Queen, who was intensely
angry and frightened. Now there were two orbs missing! Although secure in the
knowledge that her force for evil was the strongest in Krynn, the Dark Queen
knew with a nagging certainty that the forces of good still walked the land.
One of these might prove strong and wise enough to figure out the secret of
the orb.

Sleet, therefore, was ordered to find the orb and bring it not back to Ice
Wall, but to the Queen herself. Under no circumstances was the dragon to lose
it or allow it to be lost. The orbs were intelligent and imbued with a strong
sense of survival. Thus they had lived this long when even those who created
them were dead.

Sleet sped out over the Sirrion Sea, her strong white wings soon carrying her
swiftly to within sight of the ships. But now Sleet was presented with an
interesting intellectual problem, and she was not prepared to handle it.

Perhaps because of the inbreeding necessary to create a reptile that can
tolerate cold weather, white dragons are the lowest in intelligence among
dragonkind. Sleet had never needed to think much on her own. Feal-thas always
told her what to do. Consequently, she was considerably perplexed over her
current problem as she circled the ship: how could she get the orb?

At first she had just planned to freeze the ship with her icy breath. Then she
realized this would simply enclose the orb in a frozen block of wood, making
it extremely difficult to remove. There was also every probability the ship
would sink before she could tear it apart. And if she did manage to take the
ship apart, the orb might sink. The ship was too heavy to lift in her claws
and fly to land. Sleet circled the ship and pondered, while down below she
could see the pitiful humans racing around like scared mice.

The white dragon considered sending another telepathic message to her Queen,
asking for help. But Sleet hesitated to remind the vengeful queen of either
her presence or her ignorance. The dragon followed the ship all day, hanging
just above it, pondering. Floating easily on the wind currents, she let her
dragonfear stir the humans into a frenzy of panic. Then, just as the sun was
setting, Sleet had an idea. Without stopping to think, she acted upon it at
once.

Tasslehoff's report of the white dragon following the vessel sent waves of
terror through the crew. They armed themselves with cutlasses and grimly
prepared to fight the beast as. long as they could, though all knew how such a
contest must end. Gilthanas and Laurana, both skillful archers, fit arrows to
their bows. Sturm and Derek held shield and sword. Tasslehoff grabbed his
hoopak. Flint tried to get out of bed, but he couldn't even stand up. Elistan
was calm, praying to Paladine.

"I have more faith in my sword than that old man and his god." Derek said to
Sturm.

"The Knights have always honored Paladine." Sturm said in rebuke.

"I honor him-his memory," Derek said. " I find this talk of Paladine's
'return' disturbing, Brightblade. And so will the Council, when they hear of
it. You would do well to consider that when the question of your knighthood
arises."

Sturm bit his lip, swallowing his angry retort like bitter medicine.

Long minutes passed. Everyone's eyes were on the whitewinged creature flying
above them. But they could do nothing, and so they waited.

And waited. And waited. The dragon did not attack.

She circled above them endlessly, her shadow crossing and crisscrossing the
deck with monotonous, chilling regularity. The sailors, who had been prepared
to fight without question, soon began to mutter among themselves as the
waiting grew unbearable. To make matters worse, the dragon seemed to be
sucking up the wind, for the sails fluttered and drooped lifelessly. The ship
lost its graceful forward momentum and began to flounder in the water. Storm
clouds gathered on the northern horizon and slowly drifted over the water,
casting a pall across the bright sea.

Laurana finally lowered her bow and rubbed her aching back and shoulder
muscles. Her eyes, dazzled from staring into the sun, were blurred and watery.

"Put 'em in a lifeboat and cast 'em adrift," she overheard one old grizzled
sailor suggest to a companion in a voice meant to carry. "Perhaps yon great
beast will let us go. It's them she's after, not us."

It's not even us she's after, Laurana thought uneasily. It's probably the
dragon orb. That's why she hasn't attacked. But Laurana couldn't tell this,
even to the captain. The dragon orb must be kept secret.

The afternoon crept on, and still the dragon circled like a horrible seabird.
The captain was growing more and more irritable. Not only did he have a dragon
to contend with, but the likelihood of mutiny as well. Near dinnertime, he
ordered the companions below decks.

Derek and Sturm both refused, and it appeared things might get out of hand
when, "Land ho, off the starboard bow!"

"Southern Ergoth," the captain said grimly. "The current's carrying us toward
the rocks." He glanced up at the circling dragon. "If a wind doesn't come
soon, we'll smash up on them." At that moment, the dragon quit circling. She
hovered a moment, then soared upwards. The sailors cheered, thinking she was
flying away. But Laurana knew better, remembering Tarsis.

"She's going to dive!" she cried. "She's going to attack!"

"Get below!" Sturm shouted, and the sailors, after ogle hesitant look skyward,
began to scramble for the hatches. The captain ran to the wheel.

"Get below." he ordered the helmsman, taking over.

"You can't stay up here!" Sturm shouted. Leaving the hatch, he ran back to the
captain. "She'll kill you!"

"We'll founder if I don't." the captain cried angrily.

"We'll founder if you're dead!" Sturm said. Clenching his fist, he hit the
captain in the jaw and dragged him below.

Laurana stumbled down the stairs with Gilthanas behind her. The elflord waited
until Sturm brought the unconscious captain down, then he pulled the hatch
cover shut.

At that moment, the dragon hit the ship with a blast that nearly sent the
vessel under. The ship listed precariously. Everyone, even the most hardened
sailor, lost his feet and went skidding into each other in the crowded
quarters below deck. Flint rolled onto the floor with a curse.

"Now's the time to pray to your god." Derek said to Elistan.

"I am," Elistan replied coolly, helping the dwarf up.

Laurana, clinging to a post, waited fearfully for the flaring orange light,
the heat, the flames. Instead, there was a sudden sharp and biting cold that
took her breath away and chilled her blood. She could hear, above her, rigging
snap and crack, the flapping of the sails cease. Then, as she stared upwards,
she saw white frost begin to sift down between the cracks in the wooden deck.

"The white dragons don't breathe flame!" Laurana said in awe. "They breathe
ice! Elistan! Your prayers were answered!"

"Bah! It might as well be flame." the captain said, shaking his head and
rubbing his jaw. "Ice'll freeze us up solid."

"A dragon breathing ice!" Tas said wistfully. "I wish I could see!"

"What will happen?" Laurana asked, as the ship slowly righted itself, creaking
and groaning.

"We're helpless," the captain snarled. "The riggin'll snap beneath the weight
of the ice, dragging the sails down. The mast'll break like a tree in an ice
storm. With no steerage, the current will smash her up on the rocks, and
that'll be an end of her. There's not a damn thing we can do!"

"We could try to shoot her as she flies past." Gilthanas said. But Sturm shook
his head, pushing on the hatch.
"There must be a foot of ice on top of this," the knight reported. "We're
sealed in."

This is how the dragon will get the orb, Laurana thought miserably. She'll
drive the ship aground, kill us, then recover the orb where there's no danger
of it sinking into the ocean.

"Another blast like that will send us to the bottom," the captain predicted,
but there was not another blast like the first. The next blast was more
gentle, and all of them realized the dragon was using her breath to blow them
to shore.

It was an excellent plan, and one of which Sleet was rather proud. She skimmed
after the ship, letting the current and the tide carry it to shore, giving it
a little puff now and then. It was only when she saw the jagged rocks sticking
up out of the moonlit water that the dragon suddenly saw the flaw in her
scheme. Then the moon's light was gone, swept away by the storm clouds, and
the dragon could see nothing. It was darker than her Queen's soul.

The dragon cursed the storm clouds, so well suited to the purposes of the
Dragon Highlords in the north. But the clouds worked against her as they
blotted out the two moons. Sleet could hear the rending and cracking sounds of
splintering wood as the ship struck the rocks. She could even hear the cries
and shouts of the sailors-but she couldn't see! Diving low over the water, she
hoped to encase the miserable creatures in ice until daylight. Then she heard
another, more frightening sound in the darkness-the twanging of bow strings.

An arrow whistled past her head. Another tore through the fragile membrane of
her wing. Shrieking in pain, Sleet pulled up from her steep dive. There must
be elves down there, she realized in a fury! More arrows zinged past her.
Cursed, nightseeing elves! With their elvensight, they would find her an easy
target, especially crippled in one wing.

Feeling her strength ebb, the dragon decided to return to Ice Wall. She was
tired from flying all day, and the arrow wound hurt abominably. True, she
would have to report another failure to the Dark Queen, but-as she came to
think of it-it wasn't such a failure after all. She had kept the dragon orb
from reaching Sancrist, and she had demolished the ship. She knew the location
of the orb. The Queen, with her vast network of spies on Ergoth, could easily
recover it.

Mollified, the white   dragon fluttered south, traveling slowly. By morning she
had reached her vast   glacier home. Following her report, which was moderately
well-received, Sleet   was able to slip into her cavern of ice and nurse her
injured wing back to   health.

"She's gone!" said Gilthanas in astonishment.

"Of course." said Derek wearily as he helped salvage what supplies they could
from wrecked ship. "Her vision cannot match your elfsight. Besides, you hit
her once."

"Laurana's shot, not mine," Gilthanas said, smiling at his sister, who stood
on shore, her bow in her hand.

Derek sniffed doubtfully. Carefully setting down the box he carried, the
knight started back out into the water. A figure looming out of the darkness
stopped him.

"No use, Derek." Sturm said. "The ship sank."

Sturm carried Flint on his back. Seeing Sturm stagger with weariness, Laurana
ran back into the water to help him. Between them, they got the dwarf to shore
and stretched him on the sand. Out to sea, the sounds of cracking timber had
ceased, replaced now by the endless breaking of the waves.

Then there was a splashing sound. Tasslehoff waded ashore after them, his
teeth chattering, but his grin as wide as ever. He was followed by the
captain, being helped by Elistan.

"What about the bodies of my men?" Derek demanded the moment he saw the
captain. "Where are they?"

"We had more important things to carry" Elistan said sternly. "Things needed
for the living, such as food and weapons."

"Many another good man has found his final hoarse beneath the waves. Yours
won't be the first-nor the last-! suppose, mores the pity," the captain added.

Derek seemed about to speak, but the captain, grief and exhaustion in his
eyes, said, "I've left six of my own men there this night, sir. Unlike yours,
they were alive when we started this voyage. To say nothing of the fact that
my ship and my livelihood lies down there, too. I wouldn't consider adding
anything further, if you take my meaning. Sir."

"I am sorry for your loss, captain," Derek answered stiffly. "And I commend
you and your crew for all you tried to do."

The captain muttered something and stood looking aimlessly around the beach,
as if lost.

"We sent your men north along the shore, captain." Laurana said, pointing.
"There's shelter there, within those trees."

As if to verify her words, a bright light flared, the light of a huge bonfire.

"Fools!" Derek swore bitterly. "They'll have the dragon back on us."
"It's either that or catch our deaths of cold." the captain said bitterly over
his shoulder. "Take your choice, sir knight. It matters little to me." He
disappeared into the darkness.

Sturm stretched and groaned, trying to ease chilled, cramped muscles. Flint
lay huddled in misery, shaking so the buckles on his armor jangled. Laurana,
leaning down to tuck her cloak around him, realized suddenly how cold she was.

In the excitement of trying to escape the ship and fighting the dragon, she
had forgotten the chill. She couldn't even remember, in fact, any details of
her escape. She remembered reaching the beach, seeing the dragon diving on
them. She remembered fumbling for her bow with numb, shaking fingers. She
wondered how anyone had presence of mind to save anything.

"The dragon orb!" she said fearfully.

"Here, in this chest," Derek answered. "Along with the lance and that elvish
sword you call Wyrmslayer. And now, I suppose, we should take advantage of the
fire-"

"I think not." A strange voice spoke out of the darkness as lighted torches
flared around them, blinding them.

The companions started and immediately drew their weapons, gathering around
the helpless dwarf. But Laurana, after an instant's fright, peered into the
faces in the torchlight.

"Hold!" she cried. "These are our people! These are elves!"

"Silvanesti!" Gilthanas said heartily. Dropping his bow to the ground, he
walked forward toward the elf who had spoken.

"We have journeyed long through darkness," he said in elven, his hands
outstretched. "Well met, my broth-"

He never finished his ancient greeting. The leader of the elven party stepped
forward and slammed the end of his staff across Gilthanas's face, knocking him
to the sand, unconscious.

Sturm and Derek immediately raised their swords, standing back to back. Steel
flashed among the elves.

"Stop!" Laurana shouted in elven. Kneeling by her brother, she threw back the
hood of her cloak so that the light fell upon her face. "We are your cousins.
Qualinesti! These humans are Knights of Solamnia!"

"We know well enough who you are!" The elven leader spit the words,
"Qualinesti spies! And we do not find it unusual that you travel in the
company of humans. Your blood has long been polluted. Take them," he said,
motioning to his men. "If they don't come peacefully, do what you must. And
find out what they mean by this dragon orb they mentioned."

The elves stepped forward.

"No!" Derek cried, jumping to stand before the chest. "Sturm, they must not
have the orb!"

Sturm had already given the Knight's salute to an enemy and was advancing,
sword drawn.
"It appears they will fight. So be it." the leader of the elves said, raising
his weapon.

"I tell you, this is madness I" Laurana cried angrily. She threw herself
between the flashing swordblades. The elves halted uncertainly. Sturm grabbed
hold of her to drag her back, but she jerked free of his restraining hand.

"Goblins and draconians, in all their hideous evil, do not sink to fighting
among themselves"-her voice shook with rage-"while we elves, the ancient
embodiment of good, try to kill each other! Look!" She lifted the lid of the
chest with one hand and threw it open. "In here we have the hope of the world
A dragon orb, taken at great peril from Ice Wall. Our ship lies wrecked in the
waters out there. We drove away the dragon that sought to recover this orb.
And, after all this, we find our greatest peril among our own people! If this
is true, if we have sunk so low, then kill us now, and I swear, not one person
in this group will try to stop you."

Sturm, not understanding elven, watched for a moment, then saw the elves lower
their weapons. "Well, whatever she said, it seems to have worked."
Reluctantly, he sheathed his weapon. Derek, after a moment's hesitation,
lowered his sword, but he did not put it back in its scabbard.

"We will consider your story." the elven leader began, speaking haltingly in
Common. Then he stopped as shouts and cries were heard from down the beach.
The companions saw dark shadows converge on the campfire. The elf glanced that
direction, waited a moment until all had quieted, then turned back to the
group. He looked particularly at Laurana, who was bending over her brother.
"We may have acted in haste, but when you have lived here long, you will come
to understand."

"I will never understand this!" Laurana said, tears choking her voice.

An elf appeared out of the darkness. "Humans, sir." Laurana heard him report
in elven. "Sailors by their appearance. They say their ship was attacked by a
dragon and wrecked on the rocks."

"Verification?"

"We found bits of wreckage floating ashore. We can search in the morning. The
humans are wet and miserable and half-drowned. They offered no resistance. I
don't think they've lied."

The elven leader turned to Laurana. "Your story appears to be true." he said,
speaking once more in Common. "My men report that the humans they captured are
sailors. Do not worry about them. We will take them prisoner, of course. We
cannot have humans wandering around this island with all our other problems.
But we will care for them well. We are not goblins," he added bitterly. "I
regret striking your friend-"

"Brother," Laurana replied. "And younger son of the Speaker of the Suns. I am
Lauralanthalasa, and this is Gilthanas. We are of the royal house of
Qualinesti."

It seemed to her that the elf paled at this news, but he regained his
composure immediately. "Your brother will be well tended. I will send for a
healer-"

"We do not need your healer!" Laurana said. "This man"she gestured toward
Elistan-"is a cleric of Paladine. He will aid my brother-"
"A human?" the elf asked sternly.

"Yes, human" Laurana cried impatiently. "Elves struck my brother down! I turn
to humans to heal him. Elistan-"

The cleric started forward, but, at a sign from their leader, several elves
quickly grabbed him and pinned his arms behind him. Sturm started to go to his
aid, but Elistan stopped him with a look, glancing at Laurana meaningfully.
Sturm fell back, understanding Elistan's silent warning. Their lives depended
on her.

"Let him go!" Laurana demanded. "Let him treat my brother!"

"I find this news of a cleric of Paladine impossible to believe, Lady
Laurana," the elf leader said. "All know the clerics vanished from Krynn when
the gods turned their faces from us. I do not know who this charlatan is, or
how he has tricked you into believing him, but we will not allow him to lay
his human hands upon an elf!"

"Even an elf who is an enemy?" she cried furiously.

"Even if the elf had killed my own father." the elf said grimly. "And now,
Lady Laurana, I must speak to you privately and try to explain what is
transpiring on Southern Ergoth."

Seeing Laurana hesitate, Elistan spoke, "Go on, my dear. You are the only one
who can save us now. I will stay near Gilthanas."

"Very well." Laurana said, rising to her feet. Her face pale, she walked apart
with the elven leader.

"I don't like this," Derek said, scowling. "She told them of the dragon orb,
which she should not have done."

"They heard us talking about it." Sturm said wearily.

"Yes, but she told them where it was! I don't trust her - or her people. Who
knows what kind of deals they are making?" Derek added.

"That does it!" grated a voice.

Both men turned in astonishment to see Flint staggering to his feet. His teeth
still chattered, but a cold light glinted in his eyes as he looked at Derek.
"I-I've had a-about enough of yyou, S-Sir High and M-Mighty." The dwarf
gritted. his teeth to stop shivering long enough to speak.

Sturm started to intervene, but the dwarf shooed him aside to confront Derek.
It was a ludicrous sight, and one Sturm often remembered with a smile, storing
it up to share with Tanis. The dwarf, his long white beard wet and scraggly,
water dripping from his clothes to form puddles at his feet, stood nearly
level with Derek's belt buckle, scolding the tall, proud Solamnic knight as he
might have scolded Tasslehoff.

"You knights have lived encased in metal so long it's shaken your brains to
mush!" The dwarf snorted. "If you ever had any brains to begin with, which I
doubt. I've seen that girl grow from a wee bit of a thing to the beautiful
woman she is now. And I tell you there isn't a more courageous, nobler person
on Krynn. What's got you is that she just saved your hide. And you can't
handle that!"
Derek's face flushed dark in the torchlight. "I need neither dwarves nor elves
defending me-" Derek began angrily when Laurana came running back, her eyes
glittering.

"As if there is not evil enough," she muttered through tight lips, "I find it
brewing among my own kindred!"

"What's going on?" asked Sturm.

"The situation stands thus: There are now three races of elves living in
Southern Ergoth-"

"Three races?" interrupted Tasslehoff, staring at Laurana with interest.
"What's the third race? Where'd they come from? Can I see them? I never
heard-"

Laurana had had enough. "Tas," she said, her voice taut. "Go stay with
Gilthanas. And ask Elistan to come here."

"But-"

Sturm gave the kender a shove. "Go!" he ordered.

Wounded, Tasslehoff trailed off disconsolately to where Gilthanas still lay.
The kender slumped down in the sand, pouting. Elistan patted him kindly as he
went to join the others.

"The Kaganesti, known as Wilder Elves in the Common tongue, are the third
race," Laurana continued. "They fought with us during the Kinslayer wars. In
return for their loyalty, Kith-Kanan gave them the mountains of Ergoth-this
was before Qualinesti and Ergoth were split apart by the Cataclysm. I am not
surprised you have never heard of the Wilder Elves. They are a secretive
people and keep to themselves. Once called the Border Elves, they are
ferocious fighters and served Kith-Kanan well, but they have no love for
cities. They mingled with Druids and learned their lore. They brought back the
ways of the ancient elves. My people consider them barbarians-just as your
people consider the Plainsmen barbaric.

"Some months ago, when the Silvanesti were driven from their ancient homeland,
they fled here, seeking permission of the Kaganesti to dwell in Ergoth
temporarily. Then came my people, the Qualinesti, from across the sea. And so
they met, at last, kindred who had been separated for hundreds of years."

"I fail to see the relevance-" Derek interrupted.

"You will," she said, drawing a deep breath. "For your lives depend upon
understanding what is happening on this sad isle." Her voice broke. Elistan
moved near her and put his arm around her comfortingly.

"All started out peacefully enough. After all, the two exiled cousins had much
in common-both driven from their beloved homelands by the evil in the world.
They established homes upon the Isle-the Silvanesti upon the western shore,
the Qualinesti upon the eastern, separated by a strait known as
Thon-Tsalarian, which means the 'River of the Dead' in Kaganesti. The
Kaganesti live in the hill country north of the river."

"For a time, there was even some attempt to establish friendships between the
Silvanesti and the Qualinesti. And that is where the trouble began. For these
elves could not meet, even after hundreds of years, without the old hatreds
and misunderstandings beginning to surface." Laurana closed her eyes a moment.
"The River of the Dead could very well be known as Thon-Tsalaroth-'River of
Death "

"There now, lass." Flint said, touching her hand, "The dwarves have known it,
too. You saw the way I was treated in Thorbardin-a hill dwarf among mountain
dwarves. Of all the hatreds, the ones between families are the cruelest ."

"There has been no killing yet, but so shocked were the elders at the thought
of what might happen-elves killing their own kindred-that they decreed no one
may cross the straits on penalty of arrest," Laurana continued. "And this is
where we stand. Neither side trusts the other. There have even been charges of
selling out to the Dragon Highlords! Spies have been captured on both sides."

"That explains why they attacked us," Elistan murmured.

"What about the Kag-Kag-" Sturm stammered over the unfamiliar elven word.

"Kaganesti." Laurana sighed wearily. "They, who allowed us to share their
homeland, have been treated worst of all. The Kaganesti have always been poor
in material wealth. Poor, by our standards, though not by theirs. They live in
the forests and mountains, taking what they need from the land. They are
gatherers, hunters. They raise no crops, they forge no metal. When we arrived,
our people appeared rich to them with our golden jewelry and steel weapons.
Many of their young people came to the Qualinesti and the Silvanesti, seeking
to learn the secrets of making shining gold and silver-and steel."

Laurana bit her lip, her face hardened. "I say it to my shame, that my people
have taken advantage of the Wilder Elves' poverty. The Kaganesti work as
slaves among us. And, because of that, the Kaganesti elders grow more savage
and warlike as they see their young people taken away and their old way of
life threatened."

"Laurana!" called Tasslehoff.

She turned. "Look." she said to Elistan softly. "There is one of them now."

The cleric followed her gaze to see a lithe young woman-at least he supposed
it was a young woman by the long hair; she was dressed in male clothing-kneel
down beside Gilthanas and stroke his forehead. The elflord stirred at her
touch, groaning in pain. The Kaganesti reached into a pouch at her side and
began busily to mix something in a small clay cup.

"What is she doing?" Elistan asked.

"She is apparently the 'healer' they sent for," Laurana said, watching the
girl closely. "The Kaganesti are noted for their Druidic skills."

Wilder elf was a suitable name, Elistan decided, studying the girl intently.
He had certainly never seen any intelligent being on Krynn quite so
wild-looking. She was dressed in leather breeches tucked into leather boots. A
shirt, obviously cast off by some elflord, hung from her shoulders. She was
pale and too thin, undernourished. Her matted hair was so filthy it was
impossible to distinguish its color. But the hand that touched Gilthanas was
slender and shapely. Concern and compassion for him was apparent in her gentle
face.

"Well," Sturm said, "what are we to do in the midst of all this?"

"The Silvanesti have agreed to escort us to my people." Laurana said, her face
flushing. Evidently this had been a point of bitter contention. "At first they
insisted that we go to their elders, but I said I would go nowhere without
first bidding my father greeting and discussing the matter with him. There
wasn't much they could say to that." Laurana smiled slightly, though there was
a touch of bitterness in her voice. "Among all the kindred, a daughter is
bound to her father's house until she comes of age. Keeping me here, against
my will, would be viewed as kidnapping and would cause open hostility. Neither
side is ready for that."

"They are letting us go, though they know we have the dragon orb?" Derek asked
in astonishment.

"They are not letting us go," Laurana said sharply. "I said they are escorting
us to my people."

"But there is a Solamnic outpost to the north." Derek argued, "We could get a
ship there to take us to Sancrist-"

"You would never live to reach those trees if you tried to escape," Flint
said, sneezing violently.

"He is right," Laurana said. "We must go to the Qualinesti and convince my
father to help us get the orb to Sancrist." A small dark line appeared between
her eyebrows which warned Sturm she didn't believe that was going to be as
easy as it sounded. "And now, we've been talking long enough. They gave me
leave to explain things to you, but they're getting restless to go. I must see
to Gilthanas. Are we agreed?"

Laurana regarded each knight with a look that was not so much seeking
approvation as simply waiting for an acknowledgement of her leadership. For a
moment, she appeared so like Tanis in the firm set of her jaw and the calm,
steady deliberation in her eyes that Sturm smiled. But Derek was not smiling.
He was infuriated and frustrated, the more so because he knew there wasn't a
thing he could do.

Finally, however, he snarled a muttered reply that he supposed they must make
the best of it and angrily stalked over to pick up the chest. Flint and Sturm
followed, the dwarf sneezing until he nearly sneezed himself off his feet.

Laurana walked back to her brother, moving quietly along sand in her soft
leather boots. But the Wilder elf heard her approach. Raising her head, she
gave Laurana a fearful look and crept backward as an animal cringes at the
sight of man. But Tas, who had been chatting with her in an odd mixture of
Common and elven, gently caught hold of the Wilder elf's arm.

"Don't leave." said the kender cheerfully. "This is the elflord's sister.
Look, Laurana. Gilthanas is coming around. It must be that mud stuff she stuck
on his forehead. I could have sworn he'd be out for days." Tas stood up.
"Laurana, this is my friend-what did you say your name was?"

The girl, her eyes on the ground, trembled violently. Her hands picked up bits
of sand, then dropped them again. She murmured something none of them could
hear.

"What was it, child?" Laurana asked in such a sweet and gentle voice that the
girl raised her eyes shyly.

"Silvan." she said in a low voice.

"That means 'silver-haired' in the Kaganesti language, does it not?" Laurana
asked. Kneeling down beside Gilthanas, she helped him sit up. Dizzily, he put
his hand to his face where the girl had plastered a thick paste over his
bleeding cheek.

"Don't touch." Silvart warned, clasping her hand over Gilthanas's hand
quickly. "It will make you well." She spoke Common, not crudely, but clearly
and concisely.

Gilthanas groaned in pain, shutting his eyes and letting his hand fall. Silvan
gazed at him in deep concern. She started to stroke his face, then-glancing
swiftly at Laurana -hurriedly withdrew her hand and started to rise.

"Wait," Laurana said. "Wait, Silvan."

The girl froze like a rabbit, staring at Laurana with such fear in her large
eyes that Laurana was overcome with shame.

"Don't be frightened. I want to thank you for caring for my brother.
Tasslehoff is right. I thought his injury was grave indeed, but you have aided
him. Please stay with him, if you would."

Silvan stared at the ground. "I will stay with him, mistress, if such is your
command."

"It is not my command, Silvart," Laurana said. "It is my wish. And my name is
Laurana."

Silvart lifted her eyes. "Then I will stay with him gladly, mis-Laurana, if
that is your wish." She lowered her head, and they could barely hear her
words. "My true name, Silvara, means silver-haired. Silvart is what they call
me." She glanced at the Silvanesti warriors, then her eyes went back to
Laurana. "Please, I want you to call me Silvara."

The Silvanesti elves brought over a make-shift litter they had constructed of
a blanket and tree limbs. They lifted the elflord -not ungently-onto the
litter. Silvara walked beside it. Tasslehoff walked near her, still
chattering, pleased to find someone who had not yet heard his stories. Laurana
and Elistan walked on the other side of Gilthanas. Laurana held his hand in
hers, watching over him tenderly. Behind them came Derek, his face dark and
shadowed, the chest with the dragon orb on his shoulder. Behind them marched a
guard of Silvanesti elves.

Day was just beginning to dawn, gray and dismal, when they reached the line of
trees along the shore. Flint shivered. Twisting his head, he gazed out to sea.
"What was that Derek said about a-a ship to Sancrist?"

"I am afraid so." Sturm replied. "It is also an island."

"And we've got to go there?"

"Yes."

"To use the dragon orb? We don't know anything about it!"

"The knights will learn." Sturm said softly. "The future of the world rests on
this."

"Humpf!" The dwarf sneezed. Casting a terrified glance at the night-dark
waters, he shook his head gloomily. "All I know is I've been drowned twice,
stricken with a deadly disease-"
"You were seasick."

"Stricken with a deadly disease." Flint repeated loudly, "and sunk. Mark my
words, Sturm Brightblade-boats are bad luck to us. We've had nothing but
trouble since we set foot in that blasted boat on Crystalmir Lake. That was
where the crazed magician first saw the constellations had disappeared, and
our luck's gone straight downhill from there. As long as we keep relying on
boats, it's going to go from bad to worse."

Sturm smiled as he watched the dwarf squish through the sand. But his smile
turned to a sigh. I wish it were all that simple, the knight thought.


The Speaker of the Suns. Laurana's decision.

The Speaker of the Suns, leader of the Qualinesti elves, sat in the crude
shelter of wood and mud the Kaganesti elves had built for his domicile. He
considered it crude-the Kaganesti considered it a marvelously large and
well-crafted dwelling, suitable for five or six families. They had, in fact,
intended it as such and were shocked when the Speaker declared it barely
adequate for his needs and moved in with his wife-alone.

Of course, what the Kaganesti could not know was that the Speaker's home in
exile became the central headquarters for all the business of the Qualinesti.
The ceremonial guards assumed exactly the same positions as they had in the
sculptured halls of the palace in Qualinost. The Speaker held audience at the
same time and in the same courtly manner, save that his ceiling was a
mud-covered dome of thatched grass instead of glittering mosaic, his walls
wood instead of crystal quartz.

The Speaker sat in state every day, his wife's sister's daughter by his side
acting as his scribe. He wore the same robes, conducted business with same
cold aplomb. But there were differences. The Speaker had changed dramatically
in the past few months. There were none in the Qualinesti who marveled at
this, however. The Speaker had sent his younger son on a mission that most
considered suicidal. Worse, his beloved daughter had run away to chase after
her half-elven lover. The Speaker expected never to see either of these
children again.

He could have accepted the loss of his son, Gilthanas. It was, after all, a
heroic, noble act. The young man had led a group of adventurers into the mines
of Pax Tharkas to free the humans imprisoned there and draw off the
dragonarmies threatening Qualinesti. This plan had been a success-an
unexpected success. The dragonarmies had been recalled to Pax Tharkas, giving
the elves time to escape to the western shores of their land, and from there
across the sea to Southern Ergoth.

The Speaker could not, however, accept his daughter's loss-or her dishonor.

It was the Speaker's elder son, Porthios, who had coldly explained the matter
to him after Laurana had been discovered missing. She had run off after her
childhood friend-Tanis Half-Elven. The Speaker was heartsick, consumed with
grief. How could she do this? How could she bring disgrace upon their
household? A princess of her people chasing after a bastard half-breed!

Laurana's flight quenched the light of the sun for her father. Fortunately,
the need to lead his people gave him the strength to carry on. But there were
times when the Speaker asked what was the use? He could retire, turn the
throne over to has eldest son. Porthios ran almost everything anyway,
deferring to his father in all that was proper, but making most decisions
himself. The young elflord, serious beyond his years, was proving an excellent
leader, although some considered him too harsh in his dealings with the
Silvanesti and the Kaganesti.

The Speaker was among these, which was the main reason he did not turn things
over to Porthios. Occasionally he tried to point out to his elder son that
moderation and patience won more victories than threats and sword-rattling.
But Porthios believed his father to be soft and sentimental. The Silvanesti,
with their rigid caste structure, considered the Qualinesti barely part of the
elven race and the Kaganesti no part of the elven race at all, viewing them as
a subrace of elves, much as gully dwarves were seen as a subrace of the
dwarves. Porthios firmly believed, although he did not tell his father, that
it must end in bloodshed.

His views were matched on the other side of the Thon-Tsalarian by a
stiff-necked, cold-blooded lord named Quinath, who, it was rumored, was the
betrothed of the Princess Alhana Starbreeze. Lord Quinath was now leader of
the Silvanesti in her unexplained absence, and it was he and Porthios who
divided the isle between the two warring nations of elves, disregarding the
third race entirely.

The border lines were patronizingly communicated to the Kaganesti, as one
might communicate to a dog that it is not to enter the kitchen. The Kaganesti,
notable for their volatile tempers, were outraged to find their land being
divided up and parceled out. Already the hunting was growing bad. The animals
the Wilder elves depended on for their survival were being wiped out in great
numbers to feed the refugees. As Laurana had said, the River of the Dead
could, at any moment, run red with blood, and its name change tragically.

And so the Speaker found himself living in an armed camp. But if he grieved
over this fact at all, it was lost in such a multitude of griefs that
eventually he grew numb. Nothing touched him. He withdrew into his mud home
and allowed Porthios to handle more and more.

The Speaker was up early the morning the companions arrived in what was now
called Qualin-Mori. He always rose early. Not so much because he had a great
deal to do, but because he had already spent most of the night staring at the
ceiling. He was jotting down notes for the day's meetings with the Heads of
Household-an unsatisfactory task, since the Heads of Household could do
nothing but complain-when he heard a tumult outside his dwelling.

The Speaker's heart sank. What now? he wondered fearfully. It seemed these
alarms came once or twice every day. Porthios had probably caught some
hotblooded Qualinesti and Silvanesti youths raiding or fighting. He kept
writing, expecting the tumult to die down. But, instead, it increased, coming
nearer and nearer. The Speaker could only suppose something more serious had
happened. And, not for the first time, he wondered what he would do if the
elves went to war again.

Dropping the quill pen, he wrapped himself in his robes of state and waited
with dread. Outside, he heard the guards snap to attention. He heard
Porthios's voice perform the traditional rights of seeking entry, since it was
before hours. The Speaker glanced fearfully at the door that led to his
private chambers, fearing his wife might be disturbed. She had been in ill
health since their departure from Qualinesti. Trembling, he rose to his feet,
assuming the stern and cold look he had become accustomed to putting on as one
might put on an article of clothing, and bade them come inside.

One of the guards opened the door, obviously intending to announce someone.
But words failed him and, before he could speak, a tall, slender figure
dressed in a heavy, hooded fur cloak, pushed past the guard and ran toward the
Speaker. Startled, seeing only that the figure was armed with sword and bow,
the Speaker shrank back in alarm.

The figure threw back the hood of her cloak. The Speaker saw honey-colored
hair flow down around a woman's face-a face remarkable even among the elves
for its delicate beauty.

"Father!" she cried, then Laurana was in his arms.

The return of Gilthanas, long mourned as dead by his people, was the occasion
of the greatest celebration to be held by the Qualinesti since the night the
companions had been feasted before setting off for the Sla-Mori.

Gilthanas had recovered sufficiently from his wounds to be able to attend the
festivities, a small scar on his cheekbone the only sign of his injury.
Laurana and her friends wondered at this, for they had seen the terrible blow
inflicted upon him by the Silvanesti elf. But when Laurana mentioned it to,
her father, the Speaker only shrugged and said that the Kaganesti had
befriended Druids living in the forests; they had probably learned much in the
way of healing arts from them.

This frustrated Laurana, who knew the rarity of true healing powers on Krynn.
She longed to discuss it with Elistan, but the cleric was closeted for hours
with her father, who was very soon impressed by the man's true clerical
powers.

Laurana was pleased to see her father accept Elistan remembering how the
Speaker had treated Goldmoon when she first came to Qualinesti wearing the
medallion of Mishakal, Goddess of Healing. But Laurana missed her wise mentor.
Though overjoyed at being home, Laurana was beginning to realize that for her,
home had changed and would never be the same again.

Everyone appeared very glad to see her, but they treated her with the same
courtesy they gave Derek and Sturm, Flint and Tas. She was an outsider. Even
her parents' manner was cool and distant after their initial emotional
welcome. She might not have wondered at this, if they hadn't been so doting
over Gilthanas. Why the difference? Laurana couldn't understand. It remained
to her elder brother, Porthios, to open her eyes.

The incident began at the feast.

"You will find our lives much different from our lives in Qualinesti," her
father told her brother that night as they sat at the banquet held indoors in
a great log hall built by the Kaganesti. "But you will soon become accustomed
to it." Turning to Laurana, he spoke formally. "I would be glad to have you
back in your old place as my scribe, but I know you will be busy with other
things around our household."

Laurana was startled. She had not intended to stay, of course, but she
resented being replaced in what was a daughter's traditional role in the royal
household. She also resented the fact that, though she had talked to her
father about taking the orb to Sancrist, he had apparently ignored her.

"Speaker." she said slowly, trying to keep the irritation from her voice, "I
have told you. We cannot stay. Haven't you been listening to me and to
Elistan? We have discovered the dragon orb! Now we have the means to control
dragons and bring an end to this war! We must take the orb to Sancrist-"

"Stop, Laurana!" her father said sharply, exchanging looks with Porthios. Her
brother regarded her sternly. "You know nothing of what you speak, Laurana.
The dragon orb is truly a great prize, and so should not be discussed here. As
for taking it to Sancrist, that is out of the question."

"I beg your pardon, sir." Derek said, rising and bowing, "but you have no say
in the matter. The dragon orb is not yours. I was sent by the Knights Council
to recover a dragon orb, if possible. I have succeeded and I intend to take it
back as I was ordered. You have no right to stop me."

"Haven't I?" the Speaker's eyes glittered angrily. "My son, Gilthanas, brought
it into this land which we, the Qualinesti, declare to be our homeland in
exile. That makes it ours by right."

"I never claimed that, Father." Gilthanas said, flushing as he felt the
companions' eyes turn to him. "It is not mine. It belongs to all of us-"

Porthios shot his younger brother a furious glance. Gilthanas stammered, then
fell silent.

"If it is anyone's to claim, it is Laurana's," Flint Fireforge spoke up, not
at all intimidated by the elves' glaring stares, "For it was she who killed
Feal-thas, the evil elven magic-user.'"

"If it be hers." the Speaker said in a voice older thaw his hundreds of years,
"then it is mine by right. For she is not of age what is hers is mine, since I
am her father. That is elven law and dwarven law, too, if I'm not mistaken."

Flint's face flushed. He opened his mouth to reply, but Tasslehoff beat him to
it. "Isn't that odd?" remarked the kender cheerfully, having missed the
serious portent of the conversation. "According to kender law, if there is a
kender law, everybody sort of owns everything." (This was quite true. The
kenders' casual attitude toward the possessions of others extended to them
own. Nothing in a kender house remained there long, unless it was nailed to
the floor. Some neighbor was certain to wander in, admire it, and
absentmindedly walk off with it. A family heirloom among kenders was defined
as anything remaining in a house longer than three weeks.)

No one spoke after that. Flint kicked Tas under the table, and the kender
subsided in hurt silence which lasted until he discovered his neighbor, an
elvenlord, had been called from the table, leaving his purse behind. Rummaging
through the elflord's possessions kept the kender happily occupied throughout
the rest of the meal.

Flint, who ordinarily would have kept an eye on Tas, did not notice this in
his other worries. It was obvious there was going to be trouble. Derek was
furious. Only the rigid code of the knights kept him seated at the table.
Laurana sat in silence, not eating. Her face was pale beneath her tanned skin,
and she was punching small holes in the finely woven table cloth with her
fork. Flint nudged Sturm.

"We thought getting the dragon orb out of Ice Wall was tough." the dwarf said
in an undertone. "There we only had to escape a crazed wizard and a few
walrus-men. Now we're surrounded by three nations of elves!"

"We'll have to reason with them," Sturm said softly.

"Reason!" The dwarf snorted. "Two stones would have a better chance of
reasoning with each other"

That proved to be the case. By the Speaker's request, the companions remained
seated after the other elves left, following dinner. Gilthanas and his sister
sat side by side, their faces drawn and worried as Derek stood up before the
Speaker to 'reason' with him.

"The orb is ours," Derek stated coldly. "You have no right to it at all. It
certainly does not belong to your daughter or to your son. They traveled with
me only by my courtesy, after I rescued them from the destruction of Tarsis. I
am happy to have been able to escort them back to their homeland, and I thank
you for your hospitality. But I leave tomorrow for Sancrist, taking the orb
with me."

Porthios stood up to face Derek. "The kender may say the dragon orb is his. It
doesn't matter." The elflord spoke in a smooth, polite voice that slid through
the night air like a knife. "The orb is in elven hands now, and here it will
stay. Do you think we are foolish enough to let this prize be taken by humans
to cause more trouble in this world?"

"More trouble!" Derek's face flushed deep red. "Do you realize the trouble
this world is in now? The dragons drove you from your homeland. They are
approaching our homeland now! Unlike you, we do not intend to run. We will
stand and fight! This orb could be our only hope-"

"You have my leave to go back to your homeland and be burned to a crisp for
all I care," Porthios returned. "It was you humans who stirred up this ancient
evil. It is fitting that you fight it. The Dragon Highlords have what they
want from us. They will undoubtedly leave us in peace. Here, on Ergoth, the
orb will be kept safe."

"Fool!" Derek slammed his fist on the table. "The Dragon Highlords have only
one thought and that is to conquer all of Ansalon! That includes this
miserable isle! You may be safe here for a time, but if we fall, you will
fall, too!"

"You know he speaks truly, Father," Laurana said, greatly daring. Elven women
did not attend war meetings, much less speak. Laurana was present only because
of her unique involvement. Rising to her feet, she faced her brother, who
glowered at her disapprovingly. "Porthios, our father told us in Qualinesti
that the Dragon Highlord wanted not only our lands but also the extermination
our race! Have you forgotten?"

"Bah! That was one Dragon Highlord, Verminaard. He is dead-"

"Yes, because of us," Laurana shouted angrily, "not you!"

"Laurana!" The Speaker of the Suns rose to his full height, taller even than
his oldest son. His presence towered over them all. "You forget yourself,
young woman. You have no right to speak to your elder bother like that. We
faced perils of our own in our journey. He remembered his duty and his
responsibility, as did Gilthanas. They did not go running off after a
halfelven bastard like a brazen, human wh-" The Speaker stopped abruptly.

Laurana went white to the lips. She swayed, clutching the table for support.
Gilthanas rose swiftly, coming to her side, but she pushed him away. "Father,"
she said in a voice she did not recognize as her own, "what were you about to
say?"

"Come away Laurana," Gilthanas begged. "He didn't mean it. We'll talk in the
morning."

The Speaker said nothing, his face, gray and cold.
"You were about to say 'human whore'!" Laurana said softly, her words falling
like pins en nerves stretched taut.

"Go to your lodgings, Laurana," the Speaker ordered in a tight voice.

"So that is what you think of me." Laurana whispered, her throat constricting.
"That is why everyone stares and stops talking when I come near them. 'Human
whore'."

"Sister, do as your father commands," Porthios said. "As for what we think of
you-remember, you brought this on yourself. What do you expect? Look at you,
Laurana! You are dressed like a man. You proudly wear a sword stained with
blood. You talk glibly of your 'adventures!' Traveling with men such as
these-humans and dwarves! Spending the nights with them. Spending the nights
with your half-breed lover. Where is he? Did he tire of you and-"

The firelight flared before Laurana's eyes. Its heat swept over her body, to
be replaced by a terrible cold. She could see nothing and remembered only a
horrifying sensation of falling without being able to catch herself. Voices
came at her from a great distance, distorted faces bent over her.

"Laurana, my daughter . . ."

Then nothing.

"Mistress . . ."

"What? Where am I? Who are you? I-I can't see! Help me!"

"There mistress. Take my hand. Shhhh. I am here. I am Silvara. Remember?"

Laurana felt gentle hands take her own as she sat up.

"Can you drink this, mistress?"

A cup was placed to her lips. Laurana sipped at it, tasting clear, cold water.
She grasped it and drank eagerly, feeling it cool her fevered blood. Strength
returned, she found she could see again. A small candle burned beside her bed.
She was in her room, in her father's house. Her clothes lay on a crude wooden
bench, her swordbelt and scabbard stood near, her pack was on the floor. At a
table, across from her bed, sat a nursemaid, her head cradled in her arms,
fast asleep.

Laurana turned to Silvara, who, seeing the question in her eyes, put her
finger to her lips.

"Speak softly." the Wilder elf replied. "Oh, not for that one"-Silvara glanced
at the nurse-"she will sleep peacefully for many, many hours before the potion
wears off. But there are others in the house who may be wakeful. Do you feel
better?"

"Yes," Laurana answered, confused. "I don't remember-"

"You fainted," Silvara answered. "I heard them talking about it when they
carried you back here. Your father is truly grieved. He never meant to say
those things. It is just that you hurt him so terribly-"

"How did you hear?"
"I was hiding, in the shadows in the corner there. An easy thing for my people
to do. The old nurse said you were fine, you just needed rest, and they left.
When she went to fetch a blanket, I put the sleep juice in her tea."

"Why?" Laurana asked. Looking at the girl closely, Laurana saw that the Wilder
elf must be a beautiful woman-or would be if the layers of grime and filth
were washed from her.

Silvara, aware of Laurana's scrutiny, flushed in embarrassment. "I-Iran away
from the Silvanesti, mistress, when they brought you across the river."

"Laurana. Please, child; call me Laurana."

"Laurana," Silvara corrected, blushing. "I-I came to ask you to take you with
me when you leave."

"Leave?" Laurana said. "I'm not goi-" She stopped.

"Aren't you?" Silvara asked gently.

"I . . . I don't know." Laurana said in confusion.

"I can help," Silvara said eagerly. '"I know the way through the mountains to
reach the Knights' outpost where the ships with birds' wings sail. I will help
you get away."

"Why would you do this for us?" Laurana asked. "I'm sorry, Silvara. I don't
mean to be suspicious, but you don't know us, and what you're doing is very
dangerous. Surely you could escape more easily on your own."

"I know you carry the dragon orb." Silvara whispered.

"How do you know about the orb?" Laurana asked, astounded.

"I heard the Silvanesti talking, after they left you at the river."

"And you knew what it was? How?"

"My . . . people have stories . . . about it." Silvara said, her hands
twisting. "I-I know it is important to end this war. Your people and the
Silvan eyes will go back to their homes and let the Kaganesti live in peace.
There is that reason and-" Silvara was silent for a moment, then she spoke so
softly Laurana could barely hear her. "You are the first person who ever knew
the meaning of my name."

Laurana looked at her, puzzled. The girl seemed sincere. But Laurana didn't
believe her. Why would she risk her life to help them? Perhaps she was a
Silvanesti spy, sent to get the orb? It seemed unlikely, but stranger things
happened.

Laurana put her head in her hands, trying to think. Could they trust
Silvara-at least enough to get them out of here? They apparently had no
choice. If they were going into the mountains, they would have to pass through
Kaganesti lands. Silvara's help would be invaluable.

"I must talk to Elistan," Laurana said. "Can you bring him here?"

"No need, Laurana," Silvara, answered. "He has been waiting outside for you to
awaken."
"And the others? Where are the rest of my friends?"

"Lord Gilthanas is within the house of your father, of course-" Was it
Laurana's imagination, or did Silvara's pale cheek flush when she said that
name? "The others have been given 'guest quarters'"

"Yes," said Laurana grimly, "I can imagine."

Silvara left her side. Creeping quietly across the floor of the room, she went
to the door, opened it, and beckoned.

"Laurana?"

"Elistan!" She flung her arms around the cleric. Laying her head on his chest,
Laurana shut her eyes, feeling his strong arms embrace her tenderly.
Everything will be fine now, she knew. Elistan will take charge. He'll know
what to do.

"Are you feeling better?" the cleric asked. "Your father-"

"Yes, I know," Laurana interrupted him. She felt a dull ache in her heart
whenever her father was mentioned. "You must decide what we are to do,
Elistan. Silvara has offered to help us escape. We could take the orb and
leave tonight."

"If that is what you must do, my dear, then you should waste no more time,"
Elistan said, sitting by her in a chair.

Laurana blinked. Reaching out, she grabbed hold of his arm. "Elistan, what do
you mean? You must come with us-"

"No, Laurana," Elistan said, grasping her hand tightly in his own. "If you do
this, you will have to leave on your own. I have sought help from Paladine,
and I must stay here, with the elves. I believe if I stay, I will be able to
convince your father that I am a cleric of the true gods. If I leave, he would
always believe I am a charlatan, as your brother brands me."

"What about the dragon orb?"

"That is up to you, Laurana. The elves are wrong in this. Hopefully, in time,
they will come to see it. But we do not have centuries to talk this over. I
think you should take the orb to Sancrist."

"Me?" Laurana gasped. "I can't!"

"My dear," Elistan said firmly, "you must realize that if you make this
decision, the burden of leadership will be upon you. Sturm and Derek are too
caught up in their own quarrel and, besides, they are human. You will be
dealing with elves-your own people and the Kaganesti. Gilthanas sides with
your father. You are the only one who has a chance to succeed."

"But I'm not capable-"

"You are more capable than you give yourself credit for, Laurana. Perhaps
everything you have been through up to now has been preparing you for this.
You must waste no more time. Farewell, my dear." Elistan rose to his feet and
laid his hand on her head. "May Paladine's blessing-and my own-go with you."

"Elistan!" Laurana whispered, but the cleric was gone. Silvara quietly shut
the door.
Laurana sank back into her bed, trying to think. Elistan is right, of course.
The dragon orb cannot stay here. And if we are going to escape, it must be
tonight. But it's all happening so fast! And it's all up to me! Can I trust
Silvara? But why ask? She's the only one who can guide us. Then all I have to
do is get the orb and the lance and free my friends. I know how to get to the
orb and the lance. But my friends-

Laurana knew, suddenly, what she would do, She realized she had been planning
it in the back of her mind even as she talked to Elistan.

This commits me, she thought. There will be no turning back. Stealing the
dragon orb, fleeing into the night, into strange and hostile country. And
then, there is Gilthanas. We've been through too much together for me to leave
him behind. But he will be appalled at the idea of stealing the orb and
running away. And if he chooses not to go with me, would he betray us?

Laurana closed her eyes for a moment. She laid her head down wearily on her
knees. Tanis, she thought, where are you? What should I do? Why is it up tome?
I didn't want this.

And then, as she sat there, Laurana remembered seeing weariness and sorrow on
Tanis's face that mirrored her own. Maybe he asked himself these same things.
All the times I thought he was so strong, perhaps he really felt as lost and
frightened as I do. Certainly he felt abandoned by his people. And we depended
on him, whether he wanted us to or not. But he accepted it. He did what he
believed was right.

And so must I.

Briskly, refusing to allow herself to think any further, Laurana lifted her
head and beckoned for Silvara to come near.

Sturm paced the length of the crude cabin that had been given to them, unable
to sleep. The dwarf lay stretched out on a bed, snoring loudly. Across the
room, Tasslehoff lay curled in a ball of misery, chained by his foot to the
bedpost. Sturm sighed. How much more trouble could they get into?

The evening had gone from bad to worse. After Laurana had fainted, it had been
all Sturm could do to hold back the enraged dwarf. Flint vowed to tear
Porthios limb from limb. Derek stated that he considered himself to be a
prisoner held by the enemy and, as such, it was his duty to try and escape;
then he would bring the Knights down to recover the dragon orb by force. Derek
was immediately escorted away by the guards. Just when Sturm got Flint calmed
down, an elflord appeared out of nowhere and accused Tasslehoff of stealing
his purse.

Now they were being held under double guard, 'guests' of the Speaker of the
Suns.

"Must you pace about like that?" Derek asked coldly.

"Why? Am I keeping you awake?" snapped Sturm.

"Of course not. Only fools could sleep under these circumstances. You're
breaking my concen-"

"Hsst!" Sturm said, raising his hand warningly.

Derek instantly fell silent. Sturm gestured. The older knight joined Sturm in
the center of the room where he was staring up at the ceiling. The log house
was rectangular, with one door, two windows, and a firepit in the center of
the floor. A hole cut in the roof provided ventilation.

It was through this hole Sturm heard the odd sound that caught his attention.
It was a shuffling, scraping sound. The wooden beams in the ceiling creaked as
though something heavy was crawling over it.

"A wild beast of some sort," Derek muttered. "And we're weaponless!"

"No," Sturm said, listening closely. "It's not growling. It's moving too
silently, as if it didn't want to be heard or seen. What are those guards
doing out there?"

Derek went to the window and peered out. "Sitting around a fire. Two are
asleep. They're not overly concerned about us, are they?" he asked bitterly.

"Why should they be?" Sturm said, keeping his eyes on the ceiling. "There's a
couple of thousand elves within the sound of a whisper. What the-"

Sturm fell back in alarm as the stars he had been watching through the hole
were suddenly blotted out by a dark, shapeless mass. Sturm reached down
swiftly and grabbed a lag from the smoldering fire, holding it by the end like
a club.

"Sturm! Sturm Brightblade!" said the shapeless mass.

Sturm stared, trying to remember the voice. It was familiar. Thoughts of
Solace flooded his mind. "Theros!" he gasped. "Theros Ironfeld! What are you
doing here? The last I saw you, you were lying near death in the elven
kingdom!"

The huge blacksmith of Solace struggled down through the opening in the
ceiling, bringing part of the roof with him. He landed heavily, waking the
dwarf, who sat up and peered, bleary eyed, at the apparition in the center of
the cabin.

"What-" the dwarf started up, fumbling for his battle-axe which was no longer
by his side.

"Hush!" the smith commanded. "No time for questions. The Lady Laurana sent me
to free you. We're to meet her in the woods beyond the camp. Make haste! We
have only a few hours before dawn and we must be across the river by then."
Theros strode over to look at Tasslehoff, who was trying without success to
free himself. "Well, master thief, I see someone caught you at last."

"I'm not a thief!" Tas said indignantly. "You know me better than that,
Theros. That purse was planted on me-"

The smith chuckled. Taking hold of the chain in his hands, he gave a sudden
heave and it split apart. Tasslehoff, however, did not even notice. He was
staring at the smith's arms. One arm, the left, was a dusky black, the color
of the smith's skin. But the other arm, the right, was bright, shining silver!

"Theros," Tas said in a strangled voice. "Your arm-"

"Questions later, little thief," the smith said sternly. "Now we move swift
and now we move silent."

"Across the river," Flint moaned, shaking his head. "More boats. More boats. .
. ."

"I want to see the Speaker," Laurana told the guard at the door to her
father's suite of rooms.

"It is late," the guard said. "The Speaker is sleeping."

Laurana drew back her hood. The guard bowed. "Forgive me, Princess. I did not
recognize you." He glanced at Silvara suspiciously. "Who is that with you?"

"My maid. I would not travel at night by myself."

"No, of course not." the guard said hurriedly as he opened the door. "Go
ahead. His sleeping room is the third one down the hall on your right."

"Thank you." Laurana answered and brushed past the guard. Silvara, muffled in
a voluminous cape, swept softly after her.

"The chest is in his room, at the foot of his bed." Laurana whispered to
Silvara. "Are you sure you can carry the dragon orb? It is big and very
heavy."

"It's not that big." Silvara murmured, staring perplexed at Laurana. "Only
about so-"She made a gesture with her hands roughly the shape of a child's
ball.

"No." Laurana said, frowning. "You have not have seen it. It is nearly two
feet in diameter. That's why I had you wear that long cape."

Silvara stared at her in wonder. Laurana shrugged. "Well, we can't stand here
arguing. We'll figure something out when the time comes."

The two crept down the hallway, silently as kender, until they came to the
bedroom.

Holding her breath, fearing that even her heartbeat was too loud, Laurana
pressed on the door. It opened with a creaking sound that made her grit her
teeth. Next to her, Silvara shivered in fear. A figure in the bed stirred and
turned over-her mother. Laurana saw her father, even in his sleep, put out his
hand to pat her reassuringly. Tears dimmed Laurana's eyes. Tightening her lips
resolutely, she gripped Silvara's hand and slipped inside the room.

The chest stood at the end of her father's bed. It was locked, but the
companions all carried a copy of the small silver key. Swiftly Laurana
unlocked the chest, and lifted the lid. Then she nearly dropped it in her
amazement. The dragon orb was there, still glowing with the soft white and
blue light. But it wasn't the same orb! Or, if it was, it had shrunk! As
Silvara said, it was now no more than the size of a child's playing ball!
Laurana reached in to take it. It was still heavy, but she could lift it
easily. Gingerly grasping it, her hand shaking, she raised it from the box and
handed it to Silvara. The Wilder elf immediately hid it beneath her cloak.
Laurana picked up the wood shaft of the broken dragonlance, wondering, as she
did so, why she bothered taking the broken old weapon.

I'll take it because the knight handed it to Sturm, she thought. He wanted him
to have it.

At the bottom of the chest lay Tanis's sword, Wyrmslayer, given him by
Kith-Kanan. Laurana looked from the sword to the dragonlance. I can't carry
both, she thought, and started to put the lance back. But Silvara grabbed her.
"What are you doing?" Her mouth formed the words, her eyes flashed. "Take it!
Take it, toot"

Laurana stared at the girl in amazement. Then, hastily, she retrieved the
lance, concealed it beneath her cloak, and carefully shut the chest, leaving
the sword inside. Just as the lid left her cold fingers, her father rolled
over in his bed, half-sitting up.

"What? Who is there?" he asked, starting to shake off has sleep in his alarm.

Laurana felt Silvara trembling and clutched the girl's hand reassuringly,
warning her to be silent.

"It is I, Father," she said in a faint voice. "Laurana. I-I wanted to-to tell
you I am sorry, Father. And ask you to forgive me."

"Ah, Laurana." The Speaker lay back down on his pillows; closing his eyes. "I
forgive you, my daughter. Now return to your bed. We'll talk in the morning."

Laurana waited until his breathing became quiet and regular.

Then she led Silvara from the room, gripping the dragonlance firmly beneath
her cloak.

"Who goes there?" softly called a human voice in elven.

"Who asks?" replied a clear elven voice.

"Gilthanas? Is that you?"

"Theros! My friend!" The young elflord stepped swiftly from the shadows to
embrace the human blacksmith. For a moment Gilthanas was so overcome he could
not speak. Then, startled, he pushed back from the smith's bearlike hug.
"Theros! You have two arms! But the draconians in Solace cut off your right
arm! You would have died, if Goldmoon hadn't healed you."

"Do you remember what that pig of a Fewmaster told me?" Theros asked in his
rich, deep voice, whispering softly. " 'The only way you'll get a new arm,
smith, is to forge it yourself!' Well, I did just that! The story of my
adventures to find the Silver Arm I wear now is a long one-"

"And not for telling now," grumbled another voice behind him. "Unless you want
to ask a couple of thousand elves to hear it with us."

"So you managed to escape, Gilthanas," said Derek's voice out of the shadows.
"Did you bring the dragon orb?"

"I did not escape." Gilthanas returned coldly. "I left my father's house to
accompany my sister and Sil-her maid through the darkness. Taking the orb is
my sister's idea, not mine. There is still time to reconsider this madness,
Laurana." Gilthanas turned to her. "Return the orb. Don't let Porthios's hasty
words drive away your common sense. If we keep the orb here, we can use it to
defend our people. We can find out how it works, we have magic-users among
us."

"Let's just turn ourselves over to the guards now! Then we can get some sleep
where it's warm!" Flint's words came out in explosive puffs of frost.

"Either sound the alarm now, elf, or let us go. At least give us time before
you betray us," Derek said.

"I have no intention of betraying you," Gilthanas stated angrily. Ignoring the
others, he turned once more to his sister. "Laurana?"

"I am determined on this course of action," she answered slowly. "I have
thought about it and I believe we are doing the right thing. So does Elistan.
Silvara will guide us through the mountains-"

"I, too, know the mountains," Theros spoke up. "I have had little to do here
but wander them. And you'll need me to get you past the guards."

"Then we are resolved."

"Very well." Gilthanas sighed. "I am coming with you. If I stayed behind,
Porthios would always suspect me of complicity."

"Fine," snapped Flint. "Can we escape now? Or do we need to wake up anyone
else?"

"This way," Theros said. "The guards are accustomed to my late night rambles.
Stay in the shadows, and let me do the talking." Reaching down, he caught hold
of Tasslehoff by the collar of his heavy fur coat and lifted the kender off
the ground to look him right in the eye. "That means you, little thief," the
big smith said sternly.

"Yes, Theros," the kender replied meekly, squirming in the man's silver hand
until the smith set him down. Somewhat shaken, Tas readjusted his pouches and
tried to regain his injured dignity.

The companions followed the tall, dark-skinned smith along the outskirts of
the silent elven encampment, moving as quietly as possible for two armor-clad
knights and a dwarf. To Laurana, they sounded as loud as a wedding party. She
bit her lip to keep silent as the knights clanked and rattled in the darkness,
while Flint fell over every tree root and splashed through every puddle.

But the elves lay wrapped in their complacency like a soft, fleecy blanket.
They had safely fled the danger. None believed it would find them again. And
so they slept as the companions escaped into the night.

Silvara, carrying the dragon orb, felt the cold crystal grow warm as she held
it near her body felt it stir and pulse with life.

"What am I to do?" she whispered to herself distractedly in Kaganesti,
stumbling almost blindly through the darkness. "This came to me! Why? I don't
understand? What am I to do?"




River of the Dean. The legend of the Silver Dragon.


The night was still and cold. Storm clouds blotted out the light of the moons
and stars. There was no rain, no wind, just an oppressive sense of waiting.
Laurana felt that all of nature was alert, wary, fearful. And behind her, the
elves slept, cocooned in a web of their own petty fears and hatreds. What
horrible winged creature would burst from that cocoon, she wondered.
The companions had little trouble slipping past the elven
guards. Recognizing Theros, the guards stood and chatted amiably with him,
while the others crept through the woods around them. They reached the river
in the first chill light of dawn.

"And how are we to get across?" the dwarf asked, staring out at the water
gloomily. "I don't think much of boats, but they beat swimming."

"That should not be a problem." Theros turned to Laurana and said, "Ask your
little friend." nodding at Silvara.

Startled, Laurana looked at the Wilder elf, as did the others. Silvara,
embarrassed at so many eyes upon her, flushed deeply, bowing her head. "Kargai
Sargaron is right." she murmured. "Wait here, within the shadows of the
trees."

She left them and ran lightly to the riverbank with a wild, free grace,
enchanting to watch. Laurana noticed that Gilthanas's gaze, in particular,
lingered upon the Wilder elf.

Silvara put her fingers to her lips and whistled like the call of a bird. She
waited a moment, then repeated the whistle three times. Within minutes, her
call was answered, echoing across the water from the opposite bank of the
river.

Satisfied, Silvara returned to the group. Laurana saw that, though Silvara
spoke to Theros, the girl's eyes were drawn to Gilthanas. Finding him staring
at her, she blushed and looked quickly back at Theros.

"Kargai Sargaron." she said hurriedly, "my people are coming, but you should
be with me to meet them and explain things." Silvara's blue eyes-Laurana could
see them clearly in the morning light-went to Sturm and Derek. The Wilder elf
shook her head slightly. "They will not be happy about bringing these humans
to our land, nor these elves either, I am afraid," she said, with an
apologetic glance at Laurana and Gilthanas.

"I will talk to them." Theros said. Gazing across the lake, he gestured. "Here
they come now."

Laurana saw two black shapes sliding across the sky-gray river. The Kaganesti
must keep watch there constantly, she realized. They recognized Silvara's
call. Odd-for a slave to have such freedom. If escape was this easy, why did
Silvara stay among the Silvanesti? It didn't make any sense-. . . unless
escape was not her purpose.

"What does 'Kargai Sargaron' mean?" she asked Theros abruptly.
" 'He of the Silver Arm' " Theros answered, smiling..

"They seem to trust you."

"Yes. I told you I spend a good part of my time wandering. That is not quite
true. I spend much time among Silvara's people." The smith's dusky face
creased in a scowl. "Meaning no disrespect, elflady, but you have no idea what
hardships your people are causing these wild ones: shooting the game or
driving it away, enslaving the young with gold and silver and steel." Theros
heaved an angry sigh. "I have done what I could. I showed them how to forge
hunting weapons and tools. But the winter will be long and hard, I fear.
Already, game is becoming scarce. If it comes to starving or killing their
elven kin-"
"Maybe if I stayed." Laurana murmured, "I could help-" Then she realized that
was ridiculous. What could she do? She wasn't even accepted by her own people!

"You can't be in all places at the same time." Sturm said. "The elves must
solve their problems, Laurana. You are doing the right thing."

"I know." she said, sighing. She turned her head, looking behind her, toward
the Qualinesti camp. "I was just like them, Sturm," she said, shivering. "My
beautiful tiny world had revolved around me for so long that I thought I was
the center of the universe. I ran after Tanis because I was certain I could
make him love me. Why shouldn't he? Everyone else did. And then I discovered
the world didn't revolve around me. It didn't even care about me! I saw
suffering and death. I was forced to kill"-she stared down at her hands-"or be
killed. I saw real love. Love like Riverwind's and Goldmoon's, love that was
willing to sacrifice everything-even life itself. I felt very petty and very
small. And now that's how my people seem to me. Petty and small. I used to
think they were perfect, but now I understand how Tanis felt-and why he left."

The boats of the Kaganesti had reached the shore. Silvara and Theros walked
down to talk to the elves who paddled them. At a gesture from Theros, the
companions stepped out of the shadows of the trees and stood upon the
bank-hands well away from their weapons-so the Kaganesti could see them. At
first, it seemed hopeless. The elves chattered in their strange, uncouth
version of elven which Laurana had difficulty following. Apparently they
refused outright to have anything to do with the group.

Then horn calls sounded from the woods behind them. Gilthanas and Laurana
looked at each other in alarm. Theros, glancing back stabbed his silver finger
at the group urgently, then thumped himself on the chest-apparently pledging
his word to answer for the companions. The horns sounded again. Silvara added
her own pleas. Finally, the Kaganesti agreed, although with a marked lack of
enthusiasm.

The companions hurried down to the water, all of them aware now that their
absence had been discovered and that pursuit had started. One by one, they all
stepped carefully into the boats that were no more than hollowed-out trunks of
trees. All, that is, except Flint, who groaned and cast himself down on the
ground, shaking his head and muttering in dwarven. Sturm eyed him in concern,
fearing a repetition of the incident at Crystalmir when the dwarf had flatly
refused to set foot in a boat. It was Tasslehoff, however, who tugged and
pulled ,and finally dragged the grumbling dwarf to his feet.

"We'll make a sailor of you yet." the kender said cheerfully, prodding Flint
in the back with his hoopak.

"You will not! And quit sticking me with that thing!" the dwarf snarled.
Reaching the edge of the water, he stopped, nervously fumbling with a piece of
wood. Tas hopped into a boat and stood waiting expectantly, his hand
outstretched.

"Confound it, Flint, get in the boat!" Theros ordered,

"Just tell me one thing," the dwarf said, swallowing. "Why do they call it
'the River of the Dead'?"

"You'll see, soon enough," Theros grunted. Reaching out his strong black hand,
he plucked the dwarf off the bank .and plopped him like a sack of potatoes on
to the seat. "Shove off." the smith told the Wilder elves, who needed no
bidding.. Their wooden oars were already biting deep into the water.
The log boat caught the current and floated swiftly downstream, heading west.
The tree-shrouded banks fairly flew past, and the companions huddled down into
the boats as the cold wind stung their faces and took away their breath. They
saw no signs of life along the southern share where the Qualinesti made their
home. But Laurana caught glimpses of shadowy, darting figures ducking in and
out of the trees on the northern shore. She realized then that the Kaganesti
were not as naive as they seemed-they were keeping close waEdin upon their
cousins. She wondered how many of the Kaganesti living as slaves were, in
reality, spies. Her eyes went to Silvara.

The current carried them swiftly to a fork in the river where two streams
joined together. One flowed from the north, the other-the stream they
traveled-flowed into it from the east. Both merged into one wide river,
flowing south into the sea. Suddenly Theros pointed.

"There, dwarf, is your answer." he said solemnly.

Drifting down the branch of the river that flowed from the north was another
boat. At first, they thought it had slipped its moorings, for they could see
no one inside. Then they saw that it rode too low in the water to be empty.
The Wilder elves slowed their own boats, steering them into the shallow water,
and held them steady, heads bowed in silent respect.

And then Laurana knew.

"A funeral boat." she murmured.

"Aye." said Theros, watching with sad eyes. The boat drifted past, carried
near them by the current. Inside they could see the body of a young Wilder
elf, a warrior to judge by his crude leather armor. His hands, folded across
his chest, clasped an iron sword in cold fingers. A bow and quiver of arrows
lay at his side. His eyes were closed in the peaceful sleep from which he
would never waken.

"Now you know why it is called Thon-Tsalarian, the River of the Dead." Silvara
said in her low, musical voice. "For centuries, my people have returned the
dead to the sea where we were born. This ancient custom of my people has
become a bitter point of contention between the Kaganesti and our cousins."
Her eyes went to Gilthanas. "Your people consider this a desecration of the
river. They try to force us to stop."

"Someday the body that floats down the river will be Qualinesti, or
Silvanesti, with a Kaganesti arrow in his chest." Theros predicted. "And then
there will be war."

"I think all the elves will have a much more deadly enemy to face," Sturm
said, shaking his head. "Look!" He pointed.

At the feet of the dead warrior lay a shield, the shield of the enemy he had
died fighting. Recognizing the foul symbol traced on the battered shield,
Laurana drew in her breath.
"Draconian!"

The journey up the Thon-Tsalarian was long and arduous, for the river ran
swift and strong. Even Tas was given an oar to help paddle, but he promptly
lost it overboard, then nearly went in headfirst trying to retrieve it.
Catching hold of Tas by his belt, Derek dragged him back as the Kaganesti
indicated by sign language that if he caused any more trouble, they'd throw
him out.
Tasslehoff soon grew bored and sat peering over the side, hoping to see a
fish.

"Why, how odd!" the kender   said suddenly. Reaching down, he put his small hand
into the water. "Look." he   said in excitement. His hand was coated in fine
silver and sparkled in the   early morning light. "The water glitters! Look,
Flint," he called to dwarf   in the other boat. "Look into the water-"

"I will not." said the dwarf through chattering teeth. Flint rowed grimly,
though there was some question as to his effectiveness. He steadfastly refused
to look into the water and consequently was out of time with everyone else.

"You are right, Kenderkin," Silvara said, smiling. "In Fact, the Silvanesti
named the river Thon-Sargan, which means Silver Road. It is too bad you have
come here in such dismal weather. When the silver moon rises in its fullness,
the river turns to molten silver and is truly beautiful."

"Why? What causes it?" the kender asked, studying his shimmering hand with
delight.

"No one knows, though there is a legend among my people-" Silvara fell silent
abruptly, her face flushed.
"What legend?" Gilthanas asked. The elflord sat facing Silvara, who was in the
prow of the boat. His paddling was not much better than Flint's, Gilthanas
being much more interested in Silvara's face than his work. Every time Silvara
looked up, she found he was staring at her. She became more confused and
flustered as the hours passed.

"Surely you are not interested." she said, gazing out across the silver-gray
water, trying to avoid Gilthanas's gage. "It is a child's tale about Huma-"

"Huma!" Sturm said from where he sat behind Gilthanas, his swift, strong oar
strokes making up for the ineptness of both elf and dwarf. "Tell us your
legend of Huma, Wilder elf!"

"Yes, tell us your legend." Gilthanas repeated smiling.

"Very well," she said, flushing. Clearing her throat, she began. "According to
the Kaganesti, in the last days of the terrible dragon wars, Huma traveled
through the land, seeking to help the people. But he realized-to his
sorrow-that he was powerless to stop the desolation and destruction of the
dragons. He prayed to the gods for an answer." Silvara glanced at Sturm, who
nodded his head solemnly.

"True." the knight said. "And Paladine answered his prayer, sending the White
Stag. But where it led him, none know."

"My people know," Silvara said softly, "because the Stag led Huma, after many
trials and dangers, to a quiet grove, here, in the land of Ergoth. In the
grove he met a woman, beautiful and virtuous, who eased his pain. Huma fell in
love with her and she with him. But she refused his pledges of love for many
months. Finally, unable to deny the burning fire within her, the woman
returned Huma's love. Their happiness was like the silver moonlight in a night
of terrible darkness."

Silvara fell silent a moment, her eyes staring far away. Absently she reached
down to touch the coarse fabric of the cloak covering the dragon orb which lay
at her feet.

"Go on," Gilthanas urged. The elflord had given up all pretext of paddling and
sat still, enchanted by Silvara's beautiful eyes, her musical voice.

Silvara sighed. Dropping the fabric from her hands, she stared out over the
water into the shadowy woods. "Their joy was brief," she said softly. "For the
woman had a terrible secret she was not born of woman, but of dragon. Only by
her magic did she keep the shape of womankind. But she could no longer lie to
Huma. She loved him too much. Fearfully she revealed to Huma what she was,
appearing before him one night in her true shape-that of a silver dragon. She
hoped he would hate her, even destroy her, for her pain was so great she did
not want to live. But, looking at the radiant, magnificent creature before
him, the knight saw within her eyes the noble spirit of the woman he loved.
Her magic returned her to the shape of woman, and she prayed to Paladine that
he give her woman's shape forever. She would give up her magic and the long
life span of the dragons to live in the world with Huma."

Silvara closed her eyes, her face drawn with pain. Gilthanas, watching her,
wondered why she was so affected by this legend.

Reaching out, he touched her hand. She started like a wild animal, drawing
back so suddenly the boat rocked.

"I'm sorry." Gilthanas said. "I didn't mean to scare you. What happened? What
was Paladine's answer?"

Silvara drew a deep breath. "Paladine granted her wish with a terrible
condition. He showed them both the future. If she remained a dragon, she and
Huma would be given the Dragonlance and the power to defeat the evil dragons.
If she became mortal, she and Huma would live together as man and wife, but
the evil dragons would remain in the land forever. Huma vowed he would give up
everything-his knighthood, his honor-to remain with her. But she saw the light
die in his eyes as he spoke, and, weeping, she knew the answer she must give.
The evil dragons must not be allowed to stay in the world. And the silver
river, it is said, was formed from the tears shed by the dragon when Huma left
her to find the Dragonlance."

"Nice story. Kind of sad" said Tasslehoff, yawning. "Did old Huma come back?
Does the story have a happy ending?"

"Huma's story does not end happily," Sturm said, frowning at the kender. "But
he died most gloriously in battle, defeating the leader of the dragons, though
he himself had sustained a mortal wound. I have heard, though," the knight
added thoughtfully, "that he rode to battle upon a Silver Dragon."

"And we saw a knight on a silver dragon in Ice Wall," Tas sand brightly. "He
gave Sturm the-"

The knight gave the kender a swift poke in the back. Tao late, Tas remembered
that was supposed to be secret.

"I don't know about a Silver Dragon," Silvara said, shrugging. "My people know
little about Huma. He was, after all, a human. I think they tell this legend
only because it is about the river they love, the river who takes their dead."

At this point, one of the Kaganesti pointed at Gilthanas and said something
sharply to Silvara. Gilthanas looked at her, not understanding. The elfmaid
smiled- "He asks if you are too grand an elflord to paddle, because-if you
are-he will allow your lordship to swim."

Gilthanas grinned at her, his face flushing. Quickly he picked up his paddle
and set to work.
Despite all their efforts-and by the end of the day even Tasslehoff was
paddling again-the journey upstream was slow and taxing. By the time they made
landfall, their muscles ached with the strain, their hands were bloody and
blistered. It was all they could do to drag the boats ashore and help hide
them.

"Do you think we've thrown off the pursuit?" Laurana asked Theros wearily.

"Does that answer your question?" He pointed downstream.

In the deepening dusk, Laurana could barely make out several dark shapes upon
the water. They were still far down river, but it was clear to Laurana that
there would be little rest for the companions tonight. One of the Kaganesti,
however, spoke to Theros, gesturing downstream. The big smith nodded.

"Do not worry. We are safe until morning. He says they will have to make
landfall as well. None dare travel the river at night. Not even the Kaganesti,
and they know every bend and every snag. He says he will make camp here, near
the river. Strange creatures walk the forest at night-men with the heads of
lizards. Tomorrow we will travel by water as far as we can, but soon we will
have to leave the river and take to land."

"Ask him if his people will stop the Qualinesti from pursuing us if we enter
his land," Sturm told Theros.

Theros turned to the Kaganesti elf, speaking the elven tongue clumsily but
well enough to be understood. The Kaganesti elf shook his head. He was a wild,
savage-looking creature. Laurana could see how her people thought them only
one step removed from animals. His face revealed traces of distant human
ancestry. Though he had no beard-the elven blood ran too purely in the veins
of the Kaganesti to allow that-the elf reminded Laurana vividly of Tanis with
his quick, decisive way of speaking, his strong, muscular build, and his
emphatic gestures. Overcome with memories, she turned away.

Theros translated. "He says that the Qualinesti must follow protocol and ask
permission from the elders to enter Kaganesti lands in search of you. The
elders will likely grant permission, maybe even offer to help. They don't want
humans in Southern Ergoth any more than their cousins. In fact," Theros added
slowly, "he's made it plain that the only reason he and his friends are
helping us now is to return favors I've done in the past and to help Silvara."

Laurana's gaze went to the girl. Silvara stood on the river bank, talking to
Gilthanas.

Theros saw Laurana's face harden. Looking at the Wilder elf and the elflord,
he guessed her thoughts.

"Odd to see jealousy in the face of one who-according to rumor-ran away to
become the lover of my friend, Tanis, the half-elf," Theros remarked. "I
thought you were different from your people Laurana."

"It's not that!" she said sharply, feeling her skin burn. "I'm not Tanis's
lover. Not that it makes any difference. I simply don't trust the girl.
She's-well-too eager to help us, if that makes any sense."

"Your brother might have something to do with that."

"He's an elflord-" Laurana began angrily. Then, realizing what she had been
about to say, she broke off. "What do you know of Silvara?" she asked instead.
"Little." Theros answered, regarding Laurana with a disappointed look that
made her unreasonably angry. "I know she is highly respected and much loved by
her people, especially for her healing skills."

"And her spying skills?" Laurana asked coolly.

"These people are fighting for their own survival. They do what they must."
Theros said sternly. "That was a fine talk you made back on the beach,
Laurana. I almost believed it."

The blacksmith went to help the Kaganesti hide the boats.

Laurana, angry and ashamed, bit her lip in frustration. Was Theros right? Was
she jealous of Gilthanas's attention? Did she consider Silvara unworthy of
him? It was how Gilthanas lead always considered Tanis, certainly. Was this
different?
Listen to your feelings, Raistlin had told her. That was all very well but
first she had to understand her feelings! Hadn't her love for Tanis taught her
anything?

Yes, Laurana decided finally, her mind clearing. She'd meant what she'd said
to Theros.. If there was something, about Silvara she didn't trust, it had
nothing to do with the fact that Gilthanas was attracted to the girl. It was
something indefinable. Laurana was sorry Theros had misunderstood her, but she
would take Raistlin's advice and trust her instincts.

She would keep an eye on Silvara.



Silvara

Although every muscle in Gilthanas's body cried for rest and he thought he
couldn't crawl into his bedroll soon enough, the elflord found himself wide
awake, staring into the sky. Storm clouds still hung thickly overhead, but a
breeze tinged with salt air was blowing from the west, breaking them up.
Occasionally he caught a glimpse of stars, and once the red moon flickered in
the sky like a candleflame, then was snuffed out by the clouds.

The elf tried to get comfortable, turning and twisting until his bedroll was a
shambles, then he had to sit up and untangle himself. Finally he gave up,
deciding it was impossible to sleep on the hard, frozen ground.

None of the rest of his companions seemed to be having any problems, he
noticed bitterly. Laurana lay sleeping soundly, her cheek resting on her hand
as was her habit from childhood. How strangely she'd been acting lately,
Gilthanas thought. But then, he supposed he could hardly blame her. She had
given up everything to do what she believed right and take the orb to
Sancrist. Their father might have accepted her back into the family once, but
now she was an outcast forever.

Gilthanas sighed. What about himself? He'd wanted to keep the orb in
Qualin-Mori. He believed his father was right .... Or did he?

Apparently not, since I'm here, Gilthanas told himself. By the gods, his
values were getting as muddled as Laurana's! First, his hatred for Tanis-a
hatred he'd nurtured righteously for years-was starting to dwindle away,
replaced by admiration, even affection. Next, he'd felt his hatred of other
races beginning to die. He'd known few elves as noble or selfsacrificing as
the human, Sturm Brightblade. And, though he didn't like Raistlin, he envied
the young mage's skill. It was something Gilthanas, a dabbler in magic, had
never had the patience or the courage to acquire. Finally, he had to admit he
even liked the kender and the grumpy old dwarf. But he had never thought he
would fall in love with a Wilder elf.

"There!"   Gilthanas said aloud. "I've admitted it. I love her!" But was it
love, he   wondered, or simply physical attraction. At that, he grinned,
thinking   of Silvara with her dirt-streaked face, her filthy hair, her tattered
clothes.   My soul's eye must be seeing more clearly than my head, he thought,
glancing   fondly over at her bedroll.

To his astonishment, he saw it was empty! Startled, Gilthanas looked quickly
around the camp. They had not dared light a fire-not only were the Qualinesti
after them, but Theros had talked of groups of draconians roaming the land.

Thinking of this, Gilthanas rose to his feet quickly and began to search for
Silvara. He moved silently, hoping to avoid the questions of Sturm and Derek,
who were standing watch. A sudden chilling thought crossed his mind.
Hurriedly, he looked for the dragon orb. But it was still where Silvara had
put it.

Beside it lay the broken shaft of the dragonlance.

Gilthanas breathed more easily. Then his quick ears caught the sound of water
splashing. Listening carefully, he determined it wasn't a fish or a nightbird
diving for its catch in the river. The elflord glanced at Derek and Sturm. The
two stood apart from one another on a rock outcropping overlooking the camp.
Gilthanas could hear them arguing with each other in fierce whispers. The
elflord crept away from camp, heading toward the sound of softly splashing
water.

Gilthanas walked through the dark forest with no more noise than the shadows
of night itself would make. Occasionally he caught a glimpse of the river
glistening faintly through the trees. Then he came to a place where the water,
flowing among the rocks, had become trapped in a small pool. Here Gilthanas
stopped, and here his heart almost stopped beating. He had found Silvara.

A dark circle of trees stood starkly outlined against the racing clouds. The
silence of the night was broken only by the gentle murmurs of the silver
river, which fell over rock steps into the pool, and by the splashing sounds
that had caught Gilthanas's attention. Now he knew what they were.

Silvara was bathing. Oblivious to the chill in the air, the elfmaid was
submerged in the water. Her clothes lay scattered on the bank next to a frayed
blanket. Only her shoulders and arms were visible to Gilthanas's elvensight.
Her head was thrown back as she washed the long hair that trailed out behind
her, floating like a dark cobweb on the darker pool. The elflord held his
breath, watching her. He knew he should leave, but he was held fast,
entranced.

And then, the clouds parted. Solinari, the silver moon, though only half-full,
burned in the night sky with a cold brilliance. The water in the pool turned
to molten silver. Silvara rose up out of the pool. The silver water glistened
on her skin, gleamed in her silver hair, ran in shining rivulets down her body
that was painted in silver moonlight. Her beauty struck Gilthanas's heart with
such intense pain that he gasped.

Silvara started, looking around her terrified. Her wild, abandoned grace added
so much to her loveliness that Gilthanas, though he longed to speak to her
reassuringly, couldn't force the words past the pain in his chest.

Silvara ran from the water to the bank where her clothes lay. But she did not
touch them. Instead, she reached into a pocket. Grabbing a knife, she turned,
ready to defend herself.

Gilthanas could see her body quivering in the silvery moonlight, and he was
reminded vividly of a doe he had cornered after a long hunt. The creature's
eyes sparkled with the same fear he now saw in Silvara's luminous eyes. The
Wilder elf stared around, terrified. Why doesn't she see me? Gilthanas
wondered briefly, feeling her eyes pass over him several times. With the
elvensight, he should stand out to her like a
Suddenly Silvara turned, starting to flee from the danger she could feel, yet
could not see.

Gilthanas felt his voice freed. "No! Wait, Silvara! Don't be frightened. It's
me, Gilthanas ." He spoke in firm, yet hushed tones-as he had spoken to the
cornered doe. "You shouldn't be out alone-it's dangerous. . . ."

Silvara paused, standing half in silver light, half in protecting shadows, her
muscles tense, ready to spring. Gilthanas followed his huntsman's instinct,
walking slowly, continuing to talk, holding her with his steady voice and his
eyes.

"You shouldn't be out here alone. I'll stay with you. I want to talk to you
anyway. I want you to listen to me for a moment. I need to talk to you,
Silvara. I don't want to be here alone, either. Don't leave me, Silvara. So
much has left me in this world. Don't leave. . . ."

Talking softly, continuously, Gilthanas moved with smooth, deliberate steps
toward Silvara until he saw her take a step backwards. Raising his hands, he
sat down quickly on a boulder at the pool's edge, keeping the water between
them. Silvara stopped, watching him. She made no move to clothe herself,
apparently deciding that defense was more important than modesty. She still
held the knife poised in her hand.

Gilthanas admired her determination, although he was ashamed for her
nakedness. Any well-bred elven woman would have fainted dead away by now. He
knew he should avert his eyes, but he was too awed by her beauty. His blood
burned. With an effort, he kept talking, not even knowing what he was saying.
Only gradually did he become aware that he was speaking the innermost thoughts
of his heart.

"Silvara, what am I doing here? My father needs me, my people need me. Yet
here I am, breaking the law of my lord. My people are in exile. I find the one
thing that might help them-a dragon orb-but now I risk my life taking it from
my people to give to humans to aid them in their war! It's not even my war,
it's not my people's war." Gilthanas leaned toward her earnestly, noticing
that she had not taken her eyes from him. "Why, Silvara? Why have I brought
this dishonor on myself? Why have I done this to my people?"

He held his breath. Silvara glanced into   the darkness and the safety of the
woods, then looked back at him. She will   flee, he thought, his heart pounding.
Then, slowly, Silvara lowered her knife.   There was such sadness and sorrow in
her eyes that, finally, Gilthanas looked   away, ashamed of himself.

"Silvara," he began, choking, "forgive me. I didn't mean to involve you in my
trouble. I don't understand what it is that I must do. I only know . . ."
" . . that you must do it," Silvara finished for him.
Gilthanas looked up. Silvara had covered herself with the frayed blanket. This
modest effort served only to fan the flames of his desire. Her silver hair,
hanging down past her waist, gleamed in the moonlight. The blanket eclipsed
her silver skin.

Gilthanas rose slowly and began to walk along the shore toward her. She still
stood at the edge of the forest's safety. He could still sense her coiled
fear. But she had dropped the knife.
"Silvara," he said, "what I have done is against all elven custom. When my
sister told me of her plot to steal the orb, I should have gone directly to my
father. I should have sounded the alarm. I should have taken the orb myself-"

Silvara took a step toward him, still clutching the blanket around her. "Why
didn't you?" she asked in a low voice.

Gilthanas was nearing the rock steps at the north end of the pond. The water
flowing over them made a silver curtain in the moonlight. "Because I know that
my people are wrong. Laurana is right. Sturm is right. Taking the orb to the
humans is right! We must fight this war. My people are wrong, their laws,
their customs are wrong. I know this-in my heart! But I can't make my head
believe it. It torments me-"

Silvara walked slowly along the pool's edge. She, too, was nearing the silver
curtain of water from the opposite side.

"I understand." she said softly. "My own . . . people do not understand what I
do or why I do it. But I understand. I know what is right and I believe in
it."

"I envy you, Silvara," Gilthanas whispered.

Gilthanas stepped to the largest rock, a flat island in the glittering,
cascading water. Silvara, her wet hair falling over her like a silver gown,
stood but a few feet from him now.

"Silvara," Gilthanas said, his voice shaking, "there was another reason I left
my people. You know what it is."
He extended his hand, palm up, toward her.

Silvara drew back, shaking her head. Her breath came faster.

Gilthanas took another step nearer. "Silvara, I love you," he said softly.
"You seem so alone, as alone as I am. Please, Silvara, you will never be alone
again. I swear it. . . ."

Hesitantly, Silvara lifted her hand toward his. With a sudden move, Gilthanas
grabbed her arm and pulled her across the water. Catching her as she stumbled,
he lifted her onto the rock beside him.

Too late the wild doe realized she was trapped. Not by the man's arms-she
could easily have broken free of his embrace. It was her own love for this man
that had ensnared her. That his love for her was deep and tender sealed their
fate. He was trapped as well.

Gilthanas could feel her body trembling, but he knew now as he looked into her
eyes-that she trembled with passion, not fear. Cupping her face in his hands,
he kissed her tenderly. Silvara still held the blanket clasped around her body
with one hand, but he felt her other hand close around his. Her lips were soft
and eager. Then, Gilthanas tasted a salty tear on his lips. He drew back,
amazed to see her crying.
"Silvara, don't. I'm sorry-" He released her.

"No!" she whispered, her voice husky. "My tears are not because I am
frightened of your love. They are only for myself. You cannot understand."

Reaching out, she shyly put one hand around his neck and drew him near. And
then, as he kissed her, he felt her other hand-the hand that had been clasping
the blanket around her body-move up to caress his face.

Silvara's blanket slipped unnoticed into the stream and was borne away by the
silver water.



Pursuit.
A desperate plan.

At noon the next day, the
companions were forced to abandon the boats, having reached the river's
headwaters, where it flowed down out of the mountains. Here the water was
shallow and frothy white from the tumbling rapids ahead. Many Kaganesti boats
were drawn up on the bank. Dragging their boats ashore, the companions were
met by a group of Kaganesti elves coming out of the woods. They carried with
them the bodies of two young elven warriors. Some drew weapons and would have
attacked had not Theros Ironfeld and Silvara hurried to talk with them.

The two spoke long with the Kaganesti, while the companions kept an uneasy
watch downriver. Though they had been awake before dawn, starting as early as
the Kaganesti felt was safe to travel through the swift water, they had, more
than once, caught glimpses of the black boats pursuing them.

When Theros returned, his dark face was somber. Silvara's was flushed with
anger.

"My people will do nothing to help us." Silvara reported. "They have been
attacked by lizardmen twice in the last two days. They blame the coming of
this new evil on humans who, they say, brought them here in a white-winged
ship-"

"That's ridiculous!" Laurana snapped. "Theros, didn't you tell them about
these draconians?"

"I tried," the blacksmith stated. "But I am afraid the evidence is against
you. The Kaganesti saw the white dragon above the ship, but they did not,
apparently, see you drive her off. At any rate, they have finally agreed to
let us pass through their lands, but they will give us no aid. Silvara and I
both pledged our lives for your good conduct."

"What are the draconians doing here?" Laurana asked, memories haunting her.
"Is it an army? Is Southern Ergoth being invaded? If so, perhaps we should go
back-"

"No, I think not." Theros said thoughtfully. "If the armies of the Dragon
Highlords were ready to take this isle, they would do so with flights of
dragons and thousands of troops. These appear to be small patrols sent out to
make this bad situation deteriorate further. The Highlords probably hope the
elves will save them the trouble of a war by destroying each other firs."

"The Dragon High Command is not ready to attack Ergoth." Derek said. "They
haven't got a firm hold on the north yet. But it is only a matter of time.
That is why it is imperative we get the dragon orb to Sancrist and call a
meeting of the Council of Whitestone to determine what to do with it."

Gathering their supplies, the companions set out for the high country. Silvara
led them along a trail beside the splashing silver river that ran from the
hills. They could feel the unfriendly eyes of the Kaganesti follow them out of
sight.

The land began rising almost immediately. Theros soon told them they had
traveled into regions where he had never been before; it was up to Silvara to
guide them. Laurana was not altogether pleased with this situation. She
guessed something had happened between her brother and the girl when she saw
them share a sweet, secret smile.

Silvara had found time, among her people, to change her clothing. She was now
dressed as a Kaganesti woman, in a long leather tunic over leather breeches,
covered by a heavy fur cloak. With her hair washed and combed, all of them
could see how she had come by her name. Her hair, a strange, metallic silver
color, flowed from a peak on her forehead to fall about her shoulders in
radiant beauty.

Silvara turned out to be an exceptionally good guide, pushing them along at a
rapid pace. She and Gilthanas walked side by side, talking together in elven.
Shortly before sundown, they came to a cave.

"Here we can spend the night." Silvara said. "We should have left the pursuit
behind us. Few know these mountains as well as I do. But we dare not light a
fire. Dinner will be cold, I'm afraid."

Exhausted by the day's climb, they ate a cheerless meal, then made their beds
in the cave. The companions, huddled in their blankets and every piece of
clothing they owned, slept fitfully. They set the watch, Laurana and Silvara
both insisting on taking turns. The night passed quietly, the only sound they
heard was the wind howling among the rocks.

But the next morning Tasslehoff, squeezing out through a crack in the cave's
hidden entrance to take a look around, suddenly hurried back inside. Putting
his finger to his lips, Tas motioned them to follow him outdoors. Theros
pushed aside the huge boulder they had rolled across the mouth of the cave,
and the companions crept after Tas. He led them to a stop not twenty feet from
the cave and pointed grimly at the white snow.

On it were footprints, fresh enough that the blowing, drifting snow had not
quite covered them. The light, delicate tracks had not sunk deeply into the
snow. No one spoke. There was no need. Everyone recognized the crisp, clear
outline of elven boots.

"They must have passed by us in the night," Silvara said. "But we dare not
stay here any longer. Soon they will discover they have lost the trail and
will backtrack. We must be gone."

"I don't see that it will make much difference," Flint grumbled in disgust. He
pointed at their own, highly visible tracks. Then he looked up at the clear,
blue sky. "We might as well just sit and wait for them. Save them time and
save us bother. There's no way we can hide our trail!"

"Maybe we cannot hide our trail," said Theros, "but we can gain some miles on
them, perhaps."
"Perhaps." Derek repeated grimly. Reaching down, he loosened his sword in its
scabbard, then he walked back to the cave.

Laurana caught hold of Sturm. "It must not come to bloodshed!" she whispered
frantically, alarmed by Derek's action.

The knight shook his head as they followed the others. "We cannot allow your
people to stop us from taking the orb to Sancrist."

"I know!" Laurana said softly. Bowing her head, she entered the cave in silent
misery.

The rest were ready within moments. Then Derek stood, fuming in the doorway,
watching Laurana impatiently.

"Go ahead." she told him, unwilling to let him see her cry. "I'll be along."

Derek left immediately. Theros, Sturm, and the others trudged out more slowly,
glancing uneasily at Laurana.

"Go ahead."   She gestured. She needed a moment to be by herself. But all she
could think   of was Derek's hand on his sword. "No!" she told herself sternly.
"I will not   fight my people. The day that happens is the day the dragons have
won. I will   lay down my own sword first-"

She heard movement behind her. Whirling around, her hand going reflexively to
her sword, Laurana stopped.

"Silvara?" she said in astonishment, seeing the girl in the shadows. "I
thought you had gone. What are you doing?"

Laurana walked swiftly to where Silvara had been kneeling in the darkness, her
hands busy with something on the cavern floor. The Wilder elf rose quickly to
her feet.

"N-nothing," Silvara murmured. "Just gathering my things."

Behind Silvara, on the cold floor of the cave, Laurana thought she saw the
dragon orb, its crystal surface shining with a strange swirling light. But
before she could look more closely Silvara swiftly dropped her cloak over the
orb. As she did so, Laurana noticed she kept standing in front of whatever it
was she had been handling on the floor.

"Come, Laurana," Silvara said, "we must hurry. I am sorry if I was slow-"

"In a moment" Laurana said sternly. She started to walk past the Wilder elf.
Silvara's hand clutched at her.

"We must hurry!" she said, and there was an edge of steel in her low voice.
Her grip on Laurana's arm was painful, even through the thick fur of Laurana's
heavy cloak.

"Let go of me." Laurana said coldly, staring at the girl, her green eyes
showing neither fear nor anger. Silvara let fall her hand, lowering her eyes.

Laurana walked to the back of the shallow cave. Looking down, however, she
could see nothing that made any sense. There was a tangle of twigs and bark
and charred wood, some stones, but that was all. If it was a sign, it was a
clumsy one. Laurana kicked at it with her booted foot, scattering the stones
and sticks. Then she turned and took Silvara's arm.
"There," Laurana said, speaking in even, quiet tones, "Whatever message you
left for your friends will be difficult to read."

Laurana was prepared for almost any reaction from the girl-anger, shame at
being discovered. She even half-expected her to attack. But Silvara began to
tremble. Her eyes-as she stared at Laurana-were pleading, almost sorrowful.
For a moment, Silvara tried to speak, but she couldn't. Shaking her head, she
jerked away from Laurana's grasp and ran outside.

"Hurry up, Laurana!" Theros called gruffly.

"I'm coming!" she answered, glancing back at the debris on the cave floor. She
thought of taking a moment longer to investigate further, but she knew she
dare not take the time.

Perhaps I am being too suspicious of the girl, and for no reason, Laurana
thought with a sigh as she hurried out of the cave. Then about half-way up the
trail, she stopped so abruptly that Theros, walking rear-guard, slammed into
her. He caught her arm, steadying her.

"You all right?" he asked.

"Y-yes." Laurana answered, only half-hearing him.

"You look pale. Did you see something?"

"No. I'm fine," Laurana said hurriedly, and she started up the rocky cliff
again, slipping in the snow. What a fool she'd been!

What fools they'd all been!

Once again, she could see clearly in her mind's eye Silvara rising to her
feet, dropping her cloak over the dragon orb. The dragon orb that was shining
with a strange light!

She started to ask Silvara about the orb when suddenly her thoughts were
scattered. An arrow zinged through the air and thudded into a tree near
Derek's head.

"Elves! Brightblade, attack!" the knight cried; drawing his sword.

"No!" Laurana ran forward, grabbing his swordsman. "We will not fight! There
will be no killing!"

"You're mad!" Derek shouted. Angrily breaking loose of Laurana's grip, he
shoved her backwards into Sturm.
Another arrow flew by.

"She's right!" Silvara pleaded, hurrying back. "We cannot fight them. We must
reach the pass! There we can stop them."

Another arrow, nearly spent, struck the chain-snail vest Derek wore over his
leather tunic. He brushed it away irritably.

"They're not aiming to kill." Laurana added. 'If they were, you would be dead
by now. We must run for it. We can't fight here, anyhow." She gestured at the
thick woods. "We can defend the pass better."

"Put your sword away Derek," Sturm said, drawing his blade. "Or you'll fight
me first."

"You're a coward, Brightblade!" Derek shouted, his voice shaking with fury.
"You're running from the enemy!"

"No." Sturm answered coolly, "I'm running from my friends." The knight kept
his sword drawn. "Get moving, Crownguard, or the elves will find they have
arrived too late to take you prisoner."

Another arrow flew past, lodging in a tree near Derek. The knight, his face
splotched with fury, sheathed his sword and, turning, plunged ahead up the
trail. But not before he had cast Sturm a look of such intense enmity that
Laurana shuddered.

"Sturm-" she began, but he only grabbed her by the elbow and hustled her
forward too fast to talk. They climbed rapidly. Behind her, she could hear
Theros crashing through the snow, occasionally stopping to send a boulder
bouncing down after them. Soon it sounded like the entire side of the mountain
was sliding down the steep trail, and the arrows ceased.

"But it's only temporary." the smith puffed, catching up with Sturm and
Laurana. "That won't stop them for long."

Laurana couldn't answer. Her lungs were on fire. Blue and gold stars burst
before her eyes. She was not the only one suffering. Sturm's breath rasped in
his throat. His grasp on her arm was weak and his hand shook. Even the strong
smith was blowing like a winded horse. Rounding a boulder, they found the
dwarf on his knees, Tasslehoff trying vainly to lift him.

"Must . . . rest . . ." Laurana said, her throat aching. She started to sit
down, but strong hands grabbed her.

"Not" Silvara said urgently. "Not here! Just a few more feet! Come on! Keep
going!"

The Wilder elf dragged Laurana forward. Dimly she was aware of Sturm helping
Flint to his feet, the dwarf groaning and swearing. Between them, Theros and
Sturm dragged the dwarf up the trail. Tasslehoff stumbled behind, too tired
even to talk.

Finally they came to the top of the pass. Laurana slumped into the snow, past
caring what happened to her. The rest sank down beside her, all except Silvara
who was staring below them.

Where does she get the strength? Laurana thought through a bleak haze of pain.
But she was too exhausted to question. At the moment, she was too tired to
care whether the elves found her or not. Silvara turned to face them.

"We must split up," she said decisively.

Laurana stared at her, uncomprehending.

"No," Gilthanas began, trying without success to get to his feet.

"Listen to me!" Silvara said urgently, kneeling down. "The elves are too
close. They will catch us for certain, then we must either fight or
surrender."

"Fight," Derek muttered savagely.
"There is a better way," Silvara hissed. "You, knight, must take the dragon
orb to Sancrist alone! We will draw off the pursuit."

For a moment no one spoke. Everyone stared silently at Silvara, considering
this new possibility. Derek lifted his head, his eyes gleaming. Laurana
flashed a look of alarm at Sturm.

"I do not think one person should be charged with such a grave
responsibility," Sturm said, his breath coming haltingly.

"Two of us should go-at least."

"Meaning yourself, Brightblade?" Derek asked angrily.

"Yes, of course, Sturm should go," Laurana said, "if anyone."

"I can draw a map through the mountains." Silvara said eagerly. "The way is
not difficult. The outpost of the knights is only a two-day journey from
here."

"But we can't fly," Sturm protested. "What about our tracks. Surely the elves
will see we've split up."

"An avalanche," Silvara suggested. "Theros throwing the boulders down behind
us gave me the idea." She glanced up. They followed her gaze. Snow-covered
peaks towered above them, the snow hanging over the edges.

"I can cause an avalanche with my magic," Gilthanas said slowly. "It will
obliterate everyone's tracks."

"Not entirely," cautioned Silvara. "We must allow ours to be found once
again-though not too obviously. After all, we want them to follow us."

"But where will we go?" asked Laurana. "I don't intend to wander aimlessly
through the wilderness."

"I-I know a place." Silvara faltered, her gaze dropping to the ground. "It is
secret, known only to my people. I will take you there." She clasped her hand
together. "Please, we must hurry. There isn't much time!"

"I will take the orb to Sancrist," Derek said, "and I will go alone. Sturm
should go with your group. You'll need a fighter."

"We have fighters." Laurana said. "Theros, my brother, the dwarf. I, myself,
have seen my share of battle-"

"And me." piped Tasslehoff.

"And the kender," Laurana added grimly. "Besides, it will not come to
bloodshed." Her eyes saw Sturm's troubled face and wondered what he was
thinking. Her voice softened. "The decision is up to Sturm, of course. He must
do as he believes best, but I think he should accompany Derek."

"I agree," muttered Flint. "After all, we're not the ones who are going to be
in danger. We'll be safer without the dragon orb. It's the orb the elves
want."

"Yes." agreed Silvara, her voice soft. "We'll be safer without the orb. It is
you who will be in danger."
"Then my way is clear." Sturm said. "I will go with Derek."

"And if I order you to stay behind?" Derek demanded.

"You have no authority over me," Sturm said, his brown eyes dark. "Have you
forgotten? I am not a knight."

There was a painful, profound silence. Derek stared at Sturm intently.

"No," he said, "and if I have my way, you never will be!"

Sturm flinched, as if Derek had struck him a physical blow. Then he stood up,
sighing heavily.

Derek had already begun to gather his gear. Sturm moved more slowly, picking
up his bedroll with thoughtful deliberation. Laurana pulled herself to her
feet and went to Sturm.

"Here," she said, reaching into her pack. "You'll need food-"

"You could come with us." Sturm said in low tones as she divided up their
supplies. "Tanis knows we were going to Sancrist. He will come there, too, if
possible."

"You're right," Laurana said, her eyes brightening. "Perhaps that would be a
good idea-" Then her eyes went to Silvara. The Wilder elf held the dragon orb,
still shrouded in its cloak. Silvara's eyes were closed, almost as if she were
communing with some unseen spirit. Sighing, Laurana shook her head. "No, I've
got to stay with her, Sturm," she said softly. "Something's not right. I don't
understand-"she broke off, unable to articulate her thoughts. "What about
Derek?" she asked instead. "Why is he so insistent on going alone? The dwarf's
right about the danger. If the elves capture you, without us, they won't
hesitate to kill you."

Sturm's face was drawn, bitter. "Can you ask? Lord Derek Crownguard returns
alone out of horrifying dangers, bearing with him the coveted dragon orb-"
Sturm shrugged.

"But there's so much at stake." Laurana protested.

"You're right, Laurana," Sturm said harshly. "There's a lot at stake. More
than you know-the leadership of the Knights of Solamnia. I can't explain it
now. . . ."

"Come along, Brightblade, if you're coming!" Derek snarled.

Sturm took the food, stowing it in his pack. "Farewell, Laurana," he said,
bowing to her with the quiet gallantry that marked all his actions.

"Farewell, Sturm, my friend." she whispered, putting her arms around the
knight.

He held her closely, then kissed her gently on the forehead.

"We will give the orb to the wise men to study. The Council of Whitestone will
meet soon," he said. "The elves will be invited to attend, since they are
advisory members. You must come to Sancrist as soon as possible, Laurana. Your
presence will be needed."

"I'll be there, the gods willing," Laurana said, her eyes going to Silvara,
who was handing Derek the dragon orb. An expression of inexpressible relief
flitted over Silvara's face when Derek turned to go.

Sturm said good-bye, then he plunged into the snow after Derek. The companions
saw a flash of light as his shield caught the sun.

Suddenly Laurana took a step forward. "Wait!" she cried. "I've got to stop
them. They should take the dragonlance, too."

"No!" Silvara shouted, running to block Laurana's path.

Angrily, Laurana reached out to shove the girl aside, then she saw Silvara's
face and her hand stopped.

"What are you doing, Silvara?" Laurana asked. "Why did you send them off? Why
were you so eager to split us up? Why give them the orb and not the lance-"

Silvara didn't answer. She simply shrugged and stared at Laurana with eyes
bluer than midnight. Laurana felt her will being drained by those blue, blue
eyes. She was reminded terrifyingly of Raistlin.

Gilthanas, too, stared at Silvara with a perplexed and worried expression.
Theros stood grim and stern, glancing at Laurana as if beginning to share her
doubts. But they were not able to move. They were completely under Silvara's
control yet what had she done to them? They could only stand and stare at the
Wilder elf as she walked calmly over to where Laurana had wearily let fall her
pack. Bending down, Silvara unwrapped the broken piece of splintered wood..
Then she raised it in the air.

Sunlight flashed on Silvara's silver hair, mimicking the flash from Sturm's
shield.

"The dragonlance stays with me." Silvara said. Glancing swiftly around the
spellbound group, she added, "As do you."

Behind them, the snow rumbled and toppled over the side of the mountain.
Cascading down in white sheets, blocking and choking the pass, it obliterated
their presence. The echoes of Gilthanas's magical thunder still resounded in
the air, or perhaps it was the booming of the rocks as they bounded down the
slopes. They could not be certain.

The companions, led by Silvara, traveled the trails east slowly and
cautiously, walking where it was rocky, avoiding the snowy patches if at all
possible. They walked through each other's footsteps so that the pursuing
elves would never know for certain how many were in their party.

They were so careful, in fact, that Laurana grew worried.

"Remember, we want them to find us." she said to Silvara as they crept across
the top of a rocky defile.

"Do not be upset. They will have no trouble finding us." answered Silvara.

"What makes you so certain?" Laurana started to ask, then she slipped and fell
to her hands and knees. Gilthanas helped her stand. Grimacing with pain, she
stared at Silvara in silence. None of them, including Theros, trusted the
sudden change that had come over the Wilder elf since their parting with the
knights. But they had no choice except follow her.

"Because they know our destination," Silvara answered. "You were clever to
think I left a sign to them in the cave. I did. Fortunately, you did not find
it. Below those sticks you so kindly scattered for me I had drawn a crude map.
When they find it, they will think I drew it to show you our destination. You
made it look most realistic, Laurana ." Her voice was defiant until she met
Gilthanas's eyes.

The elflord turned away from her, his face grave. Silvara faltered. Her voice
became pleading. "I did it for a reason-a good reason. I knew then, when I saw
the tracks, we would have to split up. You must believe me!"

"What about the dragon orb? What were you .doing with it?" Laurana demanded.

"N-nothing." Silvara stammered. "You must trust me!"

"I don't see why." Laurana returned coIdly.

"I have done you no harm-" Silvara began.

"Unless you have sent the knights and the dragon orb into a death trap!"
Laurana cried.

"No!" Silvara wrung her hands. "I haven't! Believe me. They will be safe. That
has been my plan all along. Nothing must happen to the dragon orb. Above all,
it must not fall into the hands of the elves. That is why I sent it away. That
is why I helped you escape!" She glanced around, seeming to sniff the air like
an animal. "Come! We have lingered too long."

"If we go with you at all!" Gilthanas said harshly. "What do you know about
the dragon orb?"

"Don't ask me!" Silvara's voice was suddenly deep and filled with sadness. Her
blue eyes stared into Gilthanas's with such love that he could not bear to
face her. He shook his head, avoiding her gaze. Silvara caught hold of his
arm. "Please, shalori, beloved, trust me! Remember what we talked about-at the
pool. You said you had to do these things-defy your people, become an outcast,
because of what you believed in your heart. I said that I understood, that I
had to do the same. Didn't you believe me?"

Gilthanas stood a moment, his head bowed. "I believed you." he said softly.
Reaching out, he pulled her to him, kissing her silver hair. "We'll go with
you. Come on, Laurana." Arms around each other, the two trudged off through
the snow.

Laurana looked blankly at the others. They avoided her eyes. Then Theros came
up to her.

"I've lived in this world nearly fifty years, young woman." he said gently.
"Not long to you elves, I know. But we humans live those years-we don't just
let them drift by. And I'll tell you this-that girl loves your brother as
truly as I've ever seen woman love man. And he loves her. Such love cannot
come to evil. For the sake of their love alone, I'd follow them into a dragons
den."

The smith walked after the two.

"For the sake of my cold feet, I'd follow them into a dragon's den, if he'd
warm my toes!" Flint stamped on the ground. "Come on, let's go." Grabbing the
kender, he dragged Tas along after the blacksmith.

Laurana remained standing, alone. That she would follow was settled. She had
no choice. She wanted to trust Theros's words. One time, she would have
believed the world ran that way. But now she knew much she had believed in was
false. Why not love?

All she could see in her mind were the swirling colors of the dragon orb.

The companions traveled east, into the gloom of gathering night. Descending
from the high mountain pass, they found the air easier to breathe. The frozen
rocks gave way to scraggly pines, then the forests closed in around them once
more. Silvara confidently led them at last into a fog-shrouded valley.

The Wilder elf no longer seemed to care about covering their tracks. All that
concerned her now was speed. She pushed the group on as if racing the sun
across the sky. When night fell, they sank into the tree-rimmed darkness, too
tired even to eat. But Silvara allowed them only a few hours restless, aching
sleep. When the moons rose, the silver and the red, nearing their fullness
now, she urged the companions on.

When anyone questioned, wearily, why they hurried, she only answered, "They
are near. They are very near."

Each assumed she meant the elves, though Laurana had long ago lost the feeling
of dark shapes trailing them.

Dawn broke, but the light was filtered through fog so thick Tasslehoff thought
he might grab a handful and store it in one of his pouches. The companions
walked close together, even holding hands to avoid being separated. The air
grew warmer. They shed their wet and heavy cloaks as they stumbled along a
trail that seemed to materialize beneath their feet, out of the fog. Silvara
walked before them. The faint light shining from her silver hair was their
only guide.

Finally the ground grew level at their feet, the trees cleared, and they
walked on smooth grass, brawn with winter. Although none of them could see
more than a few feet in the gray fog, they had the impression they were in a
wide clearing.

"This is Foghaven Vale," Silvara replied in answer to their questions. "Long
years ago, before the Cataclysm, it was one of the most beautiful places upon
Krynn . . . so my people said."
"It might still be beautiful," Flint grumbled, "if we could see it through
this confounded mist."

"No," said Silvara sadly. "Like much else in this world, the beauty of
Foghaven has vanished. Once the fortress of Foghaven floated above the mist as
if floating an a cloud. The rising sun colored the mists pink in the morning,
burned them off at midday so that the soaring spires of the fortress could be
seen for miles. In the evening, the fog returned to coven the fortress like a
blanket. By night, the silver and the red moons shone on the mists with a
shimmering light. Pilgrims came, from all parts of Krynn-" Silvara stopped
abruptly. "We will make camp here tonight."

"What pilgrims?" Laurana asked, letting her pack fall.

Silvara shrugged. "I do not know." she said, averting her face. "It is only a
legend of my people. Perhaps it is not even true. Certainly no one comes here
now."

She's lying, thought Laurana, but she said nothing. She was too tired to care.
And even Silvara's low, gentle voice seemed unnaturally loud and jarring in
the eerie stillness. The companions spread their blankets in silence. They ate
in silence, too, nibbling without appetite on the dried fruit in their packs.
Even the kender was subdued. The fog was oppressive, weighting them down. The
only thing they could hear was a steady drip, drip, drip of water plopping
onto the mat of dead leaves on the forest floor below.

"Sleep now," said Silvara softly, spreading her blanket near Gilthanas's, "for
when the silver moon has neared its zenith, we must leave."

"What difference will that make?" The kender yawned. "We can't see it anyway."

"Nonetheless, we must go. I will wake you."

"When we return from Sancrist-after the Council of Whitestone-we can be
married," Gilthanas said softly to Silvara as they lay together, wrapped in
his blanket.

The girl stirred in his arms. He felt her soft hair rub against his cheek. But
she did not answer.

 "Don't worry about my father," Gilthanas said, smiling, stroking the
beautiful hair that shone even in the darkness. "He'll be stern and grim for a
while, but I am the younger brother-no one cares what becomes of me. I
Porthios will rant
and rave and carry on. But we'll ignore him. We don't have to live with my
people. I'm not sure how I'd fit in with yours, but I could learn. I'm a good
shot with a bow. And I'd like our children to grow up in the wilderness, free
and happy Silvara-why, you're crying!"

Gilthanas held her close as she buried her face in his shoulder, sobbing
bitterly. "There, there." he whispered soothingly, smiling in the darkness.
Women were such funny creatures. He wondered what he'd said. "Hush, Silvara,"
he murmured. "It will be all right." And Gilthanas fell asleep, dreaming of
silver-haired children running in the green woods.

..what..

"It is time. We must leave."

Laurana felt a hand on her shoulder, shaking her. Startled, she woke from a
vague, frightening dream that she could not remember to find the Wilder elf
kneeling above her.

"I'll wake the others." Silvara said, and disappeared.

Feeling more tired than if she hadn't slept, Laurana packed her things by
reflex and stood waiting, shivering, in the darkness. Next to her, she heard
the dwarf groan. The damp air was making his joints ache painfully.

 This journey had been hard on Flint, Laurana realized. He was, after all,
what-almost one hundred and fifty years old? A respectable age for a dwarf.
His face had lost some of its color during his illness on the voyage. His
lips, barely visible beneath the beard, had a bluish tinge, and occasionally
he pressed his hand against his chest. But he always stoutly insisted he was
fine and kept up with them on the trail.

"All set!" cried Tas. His shrill voice echoed weirdly in the fog, and he had
the distinct feeling he'd disturbed something. "I'm sorry." he said, cringing.
"Gee." he muttered to Flint, "it's like being in a temple."
"Just shut up and start moving!" the dwarf snapped.

A torch flared. The companions started at the sudden, blinding light that
Silvara held.

"We must have light," she said before any could protest. "Do not fear. The
vale we are in is sealed shut. Lang ago, there were two entrances: one led to
human lands where the knights had their outpost, the other led east into the
lands of the ogres. Both passes were lost during the Cataclysm. We need have
no fear. I have led you lay a way known only to myself."

"And to your people," Laurana reminded her sharply.

"Yes-my people . . ." Silvara said, and Laurana was surprised to see the girl
grow pale.

"Where are you taking us?" Laurana insisted.

"You will see. We will be there within the hour."

The companions glanced at each other, then all of them looked at Laurana.

Damn them, she thought. "Don't look to me for answers!" she said angrily.
"What do you want to do: Stay out here, lost in the fog-"

"I won't betray you!" Silvara murmured despondently. "Please, just trust me a
little further."

"Go ahead." said Laurana tiredly. "We'll fallow."

The fog seemed to close around them more thickly, until all that kept the
darkness at bay was the light of Silvara's torch.

No one had any idea of the direction they traveled. The landscape did not
change. They walked through tall grass. There were no trees. Occasionally a
large boulder loomed out of the darkness, but that was all. Of night birds or
animals, there was no sign. There was a sense of urgency that increased as
they walked until all of them felt it, and they hurried their steps, keeping
ever within the light of the torch.
Then, suddenly, without warning, Silvara stopped.

"We are here." she said, and she held the torch aloft.

The torch's light pierced the fog. They could all see a shadowy something
beyond. At first, it was so ghostly materializing out of the fog that the
companions could not recognize it.

Silvara drew closer. They followed her, curious, fearful.

Then the silence of the night was broken by bubbling sounds like water boiling
in a giant kettle. The fog grew denser, the air was warm and stifling.

"Hot springs!" said Theros in sudden understanding. "Of course, that explains
the constant fog. And this dark shape-"

"The bridge which leads across them," Silvara replied, shining the torchlight
upon what they could see was a glistening stone bridge spanning the water
boiling in the streams below them, filling the night air with its warm,
billowing fog.
"We're supposed to cross that!" Flint exclaimed, staring at the black, boiling
water in horror. "We're supposed to cross-"

"It is called the Bridge of Passage." said Silvara.

The dwarf's only answer was a strangled gulp.

The Bridge of Passage was a long, smooth arch of pure white marble. Along its
sides-carved in vivid relief-long columns of knights walked symbolically
across the bubbling streams. The span was so high that they could not see the
top through the swirling mists. And it was old, so old that Flint, reverently
touching the worn rock with his hand, could not recognize the craftsmanship.
It was not dwarven, not elven, not human. Who had done such marvelous work?
Then he noticed there were no hand-rails, nothing but the marble span itself,
slick and glistening with the mist rising constantly from the bubbling springs
beneath.

"We cannot cross that." said Laurana, her voice trembling. "And now we are
trapped-"

"We can cross." Silvara said. "For we have been summoned."

"Summoned?" Laurana repeated in exasperation. "By what? Where?"

"Wait." commanded Silvara.

They waited. There was nothing left for them to do. Each stood staring around
in the torchlight, but they saw only tile mist rising from the streams, heard
only the gurgling water.

"It is the time of Solinari." Silvara said suddenly, and swinging her arm-she
hurled her torch into !the water.

Darkness swallowed them. Involuntarily, they crept closer together. Silvara
seemed to have vanished with the light. Gilthanas called for her, but she did
not answer.

Then the mist turned to shimmering silver. They could see once more, and now
they could see Silvara, a dark, shadowy outline against the silvery mist. She
stood at the foot of the bridge, staring up into the sky. Slowly she raised
her hands, and slowly the mists parted. Looking up, the companions saw the
mists separate like long, graceful fingers to reveal the silver moon, full and
brilliant in the starry sky.

Silvara spoke strange words, and the moonlight poured down upon her, bathing
her in its light. The moon's light shone upon the bubbling waters, making them
come alive, dancing with silver. It shone upon the marble bridge, giving life
to the knights who spent eternity crossing the stream.

But it was not these beautiful sights that caused the companions to clasp each
other with shaking hands or to hold each other closely. The moon's light on
the water did not cause Flint to repeat the name of Reorx in the most reverent
prayer he ever uttered, or cause Laurana to lean her head against her
brother's shoulder, her eyes dimmed with sudden tears, or cause Gilthanas to
hold her tightly, overwhelmed by a feeling of fear and awe and reverence.

Soaring high above them, so tall its head might have torn a moon from the sky,
was the figure of a dragon, carved out of a mountain of rock, shining silver
in the moonlight.
"Where are we?" Laurana asked in a hushed voice. "What is this place?"

"When you cross the Bridge of Passage, you wall stand before the Monument of
the Silver Dragon." answered Silvara softly. "It guards the Tomb of Huma,
Knight of Solamnia."


The Tomb of Huma.

In Solinari's light, the Bridge of Passage across the bubbling streams of
Foghaven Vale gleamed like bright pearls threaded on a silver chain.

"Do not fear." Silvara said again. "The crossing is difficult only for those
who seek to enter the Tomb for evil purposes."

But the companions remained unconvinced. Fearfully they climbed the stairs
leading them up to the bridge itself. Then, hesitantly, they stepped upon the
marble arch that rose before them, glistening wet with the steam from the
springs. Silvara crossed first, walking lightly and with ease. The rest
followed her more cautiously, keeping to the very center of the marble span.

Across from them, on the other side of the bridge, loomed the Monument of the
Dragon. Even though they knew they must watch their footing, their eyes seemed
constantly drawn up to it. Many times, they were forced to stop and stare in
awe, while below them the hot springs boiled and steamed.

"Why-I bet that water's so hot you could cook meat in it!" Tasslehoff said.
Lying flat on his stomach, he peered over the edge of the highest part of the
arched bridge.

"I'll b-bet it c-could c-cook you," stuttered the terrified dwarf, crawling
across on his hands and knees.

"Look, Flint! Watch. I've got this piece of meat in my pack. I'll get a string
and we'll lower it in the water-"

"Get moving!" Flint roared. Tas sighed and closed his pouch.

"You're no fun to take anywhere." he complained, and he slid down the other
side of the span on the seat of his pants.

But for the rest of the companions, it was a terrifying journey, and all of
them sighed in heartfelt relief when they came down off the marble bridge onto
the ground below.

None of them had spoken to Silvara as they crossed, their minds being too
occupied with getting over the Bridge of Passage alive. But when they reached
the other side, Laurana was the first to ask questions.

"Why have you brought us here?"

"Do you not trust me, yet?" Silvara asked sadly.

Laurana hesitated. Her gaze went once again to the huge stone dragon, whose
head was crowned with stars. The stone mouth was open in a silent cry, and the
stone eyes stared fiercely. The stone wings were carved out of the sides of
the mountain. A stone claw stretched forth, as massive as the trunks of a
hundred vallenwood trees.

"You send the dragon orb away, then bring us to a monument dedicated to a
dragon!" Laurana said after some moment, her voice quivering. "What am I to
think? And you bring us to this place you call Huma's Tomb. We do not even
know if Huma lived, or if he was legend. What is to prove this is his resting
place? Is his body within?"

"N-no." Silvara faltered. "His body disappeared, as did-"

"As did what?"

"As did the lance he carried, the Dragonlance he used to destroy the Dragon of
All Colors and of None." Silvara sighed and lowered her head. "Come inside,"
she begged, "and rest for the night. In the morning, all will be made clear, I
promise."

"I don't think-" Laurana began.

"We're going inside!" Gilthanas said firmly. "You're behaving like a spoiled
child, Laurana! Why would Silvara lead us into danger? Surely, if there was a
dragon living here, everyone on Ergoth would know it! It could have destroyed
everyone on the island long ago. I sense no evil about this place, only a
great and ancient peace. And it's a perfect hiding place! Soon the elves will
receive word that the orb has reached Sancrist safely. They'll quit searching,
and we can leave. Isn't that right, Silvara? Isn't that why you brought us
here?"

"Yes," Silvara said softly. "Th-that was my plan. Now, come, come quickly,
while the silver moon still shines. For only then can we enter."

Gilthanas, his hand holding Silvara's hand, walked into the shimmering silver
fog. Tas skipped ahead of them, his pouches bouncing. Flint and Theros
followed more slowly, Laurana more slowly still. Her fears were not eased by
Gilthanas's glib explanation, nor by Silvara's reluctant agreement. But there
was no place else to go and-as she admitted-she was intensely curious.

The grass on the other side of the bridge was smooth and flat with the steamy
clouds of moisture, but the ground began to rise as they approached the body
of the dragon carved out of the cliff. Suddenly Tasslehoff's voice floated
back to them from the mist where he had run far ahead of the group.

"Raistlin!" they heard him cry in a strangled voice. "He's turned into a
giant!"

"The kender's gone mad," Flint said with gloomy satisfaction. "I always knew
it-"

Running forward, the companions found Tas jumping up and down and pointing.
They stood by his side, panting for breath.

"By the beard of Reorx," gasped Flint in awe. "It is Raistlin!"

Looming out of the swirling mist, rising nine feet in the air, stood a stone
statue carved in a perfect likeness of the young mage. Accurate in every
detail, it even captured his cynical, bitter expression and the careen eyes
with their hourglass pupils.

"And there's Caramon!" Tas cried.
A few feet away stood another statue, this time shaped like the mage's warrior
twin.

"And Tanis . . . " Laurana whispered fearfully. "What evil magic is this?"
"Not evil." Silvara said, "unless you bring evil to this place. In that case,
you would see the faces of your worst enemies within the stone statues. The
horror and fear they generate would not allow you to pass. But you see only
your friends, and so you may pass safely."

"I wouldn't exactly count Raistlin among my friends," muttered Flint.

"Nor I." Laurana said. Shivering, she walked hesitantly past the cold image of
the mage. The mage's obsidian robes gleamed black in the moons' light. Laurana
remembered vividly the nightmare of Silvanesti, and she shuddered as she
entered what she saw now was a ring of stone statues-each of them bearing a
striking, almost frightening resemblance to her friends. Within that silent
ring of stone stood a small temple.

The simple rectangular building thrust up into the fog from an octagonal base
of shining steps. It, too, was made of obsidian, and the black structure
glistened wet with the perpetual fog. Each feature stood as if it had been
carved only days before; no sign of wear marred the sharp, clean lines of the
carving. Its knights, each bearing the dragonlance, still charged huge
monsters. Dragons screamed silently in frozen death, pierced by the long,
delicate shafts.

"Inside this temple, they placed Huma's body," Silvara said softly as she led
them up the stairs.

Cold bronze doors swung open on silent hinges to Silvara's touch. The
companions stood uncertainly on the stairs that encircled the columned temple.
But, as Gilthanas had said, they could sense no evil coming from this place.
Laurana remembered vividly the Tomb of the Royal Guard in the Sla-Mori and the
terror generated by the undead guards left to keep eternal watch over their
dead king, Kith-Kanan. In this temple, however, she felt only sorrow and loss,
tempered by the knowledge of a great victory-a battle won at terrible cost,
but bringing with it eternal peace and sweet restfulness.

Laurana felt her burden ease, her heart become lighter. Her own sorrow and
loss seemed diminished here. She was reminded of her own victories and
triumphs. One by one, all the companions entered the tomb. The bronze doors
swung shut behind them, leaving them in total darkness.

Then light flared. Silvara held a torch in her hand, apparently taken from the
wall. Laurana wondered briefly how she had managed to light it. But the
trivial question left her mind as she stood gazing around the tomb in awe.

It was empty except for a bier carved out of obsidian, which stood in the
center of the room. Chiseled images of knights supported the bier, but the
body of the knight that was supposed to have rested upon it was gone. An
ancient shield lay at the foot, and a sword, similar to Sturm's, lay near the
shield. The companions gazed at these artifacts in silence. It seemed a
desecration to the sorrowful serenity of the place to speak, and none touched
them, not even Tasslehoff.

"I wish Sturm could be here." murmured Laurana, looking around, tears coming
to her eyes. "This must be Huma's resting place . . .yet-" She couldn't
explain the growing sense of uneasiness that was creeping over her. Not fear,
it was more like the sensation she had felt upon entering the vale-a sense of
urgency.

Silvara lit more torches along the wall, and the companions walked past the
bier, gazing around the tomb curiously. It was not large. The bier stood in
the center and stone benches lined the walls, presumably for the mourners to
rest upon while paying their respects. At the far end stood a small stone
altar. Carved in its surface were the symbols of the orders of the Knights-the
crown, the rose, the kingfisher. Dried rose petals and herbs lay scattered on
the top, their fragrance still lingering sweetly in the air after hundreds of
years. Below the altar, sunk into the stone floor, was a large iron plate.

As Laurana stared curiously at this plate, Theros came over to stand beside
her.

"What do you suppose this is?" she wondered. "A well?"

"Let's see," grunted the smith. Bending over, he lifted the ring on top of the
plate in his huge, silver hand and pulled. At first nothing happened. Theros
placed both hands on the ring and heaved with all his strength. The iron plate
gave a great groan and slid across the floor with a scraping, squeaking sound
that set their teeth on edge.

"What have you done?" Silvara, who had been standing near the tomb regarding
it sadly, whirled to face them.

Theros stood up in astonishment at the shrill sound of her voice. Laurana
involuntarily backed away from the gaping hole in the floor. Both of them
stared at Silvara.

"Do not go near that!" Silvara warned, her voice shaking.

"Stand clear! It is dangerous!"

"How do you know?" Laurana said coolly, recovering herself. "No one's come
here for hundreds of years. Or have they?"

"No!" Silvara said, biting her lip. "I-I know from the . . . legends of my
people . . ."

Ignoring the girl, Laurana stepped to the edge of the hole and peered inside.
It was dark. Even holding the torch Flint brought her from the wall, she could
see nothing down there. A faint musty odor drifted from the hole, but that was
all.

"I don't think it's a well," said Tas, crowding to see.

"Stay away from it! Please!" Silvara begged.

"She's right, little thief!" Theros grabbed Tas arid pulled him away from the
hole. "If you fell in there, you might tumble through to the other side of the
world."

"Really?" asked Tasslehoff breathlessly. "Would I really fall through to the
other side, Theros? I wonder what it would be like? Would there be people
there? Like us?"

"Not like kenders hopefully!" Flint grumbled. '-Or they'd all be dead of
idiocy by now. Besides, everyone knows that the world rests of the Anvil of
Reorx. Those falling to the other side are caught between his hammer blows and
the world still being forged. People on the other side indeed!" He snorted as
he watched Theros unsuccessfully try to replace the plate. Tasslehoff was
still staring at it curiously. Finally Theros was forced to give up, but he
glared at the kender until Tas heaved a sigh and wandered away to the stone
bier to stare with longing eyes at the shield and sword.
Flint tugged Laurana's sleeve.

"What is it?" she asked absently, her thoughts elsewhere.

"I know stonework," the dwarf said softly, "and here's something strange about
all this." He paused, glancing to see if Laurana might laugh. But she was
paying serious attention to him. "The tomb and the statues built outside are
the work of men. It is old. . . ."

"Old enough to be Huma's tomb?" Laurana interrupted.

"Every bit of it." The dwarf nodded emphatically. "But yon great beast
outside"-he gestured in the direction of the huge stone dragon-"was never
built by the hands of man or elf or dwarf."

Laurana blinked, uncomprehending.

"And it is older still," the dwarf said, his voice growing husky. "So old it
makes this"-he waved his hand at the tomb-"modern."

Laurana began to understand. Flint, seeing her eyes widen, nodded slowly and
solemnly.

"No hand of any being that walks upon Krynn with two legs carved the side out
of that cliff," he said.

"It must have been a creature with awesome strength-" Laurana murmured. "A
huge creature-"

"With wings-"

"With wings," Laurana murmured.
Suddenly she stopped talking, her blood chilled in fear as she heard words
being chanted, words she recognized as the strange, spidery language of magic.

"No!" Turning, she lifted her hand instinctively to ward off , the spell,
knowing as she did so that it was futile.

Silvara stood beside the altar, crumbling rose petals in her hand, chanting
softly.

Laurana fought the enchanted drowsiness that crept over her. She fell to her
knees, cursing herself for a fool, clinging to the stone bench for support.
But it did no good. Lifting her sleep-glazed eyes, she saw Theros topple over
and Gilthanas slump to the ground. Beside her, the dwarf was snoring even
before his head hit the bench.

Laurana heard a clattering sound, the sound of a shield crashing to the floor,
then the air was filled with the fragrance of roses.



The kender's startling discovery.


Tasslehoff heard Silvara chanting. Recognizing the words of a magic spell, he
reacted instinctively grabbed hold of the shield that lay on the bier, and
pulled. The heavy shield fell on top of him, striking the floor with a ringing
clang, flattening the kender. The shield covered Tas completely.
He lay still beneath it until he heard Silvara finish her thank. Even then, he
waited a few moments to see if he was going to turn into a frog or go up in
flames or something interesting like that. He didn't-rather to his
disappointment. He couldn't even hear Silvara, Finally, growing bored lying in
the darkness on the cold stone floor, Tas crept out from beneath the heavy
shield with the silence of a falling feather.

All his friends were asleep! So that was the spell she cast. But where was
Silvara? Gone somewhere to get a horrible monster to come back and devour
them?

Cautiously, Tas raised his head and peered over the bier. To his astonishment,
he saw Silvara crouched on the floor, near the tomb entrance. As Tas watched,
she rocked back and forth, making small, moaning sounds.

"How can I go through with it?" Tas heard her say to herself. "I've brought
them here. Isn't that enough? No!" She shook her head in misery. "No, I've
sent the orb away. They don't know how to use it. I must break the oath. It is
as you said, sister the choice is mine. But it is hard! I love him-"

Sobbing, muttering to herself like one possessed, Silvara buried her face in
her knees. The tender-hearted kender had never seen such sorrow, and he longed
to go comfort her. Then he realized what she was talking about didn't sound
good. "Choice is a hard one, break the oath . . ."

No, Tas thought, I better find a way out of here before she realizes her spell
didn't work on me.

But Silvara blocked the entrance to the tomb. He might try to sneak past her
.... Tas shook his head. Too risky.
The hole! He brightened. He'd wanted to examine it more carefully anyway. He
just hoped the lid was still off.

The kender tiptoed around the bier until he came to the altar. There was the
hole, still gaping open. Theros lay beside it, sound asleep, his head pillowed
upon his silver arm. Glancing back at Silvara, Tas sneaked silently to the
edge.

It would certainly be a better place to hide than where he was now. There were
no stairs, but he could see handholds on the wall. A deft kender-such as
himself-should have no trouble at all climbing down. Perhaps it led outside.
Suddenly Tas heard a noise behind him. Silvara sighing and stirring ....

Without another thought, Tas lowered himself silently into the hole and began
his descent. The walls were slick with moisture and moss, the handholds were
spaced far apart. Built for humans, he thought irritably. No one ever
considered little people!

He was so preoccupied that he didn't notice the gems until he was practically
on top of them.

"Reorx's beard!" he swore. (He was fond of this oath, having borrowed it from
Flint.) Six beautiful jewels-each as big around as his hand-were spaced in a
horizontal ring around the walls of the shaft. They were covered with moss,
but Tas could tell at a glance how valuable they were.

"Now why would anyone put such wonderful jewels down here?" he asked aloud.
"I'll bet it was some thief. If I can pry them loose, I'll return them to
their rightful owner." His hand closed over a jewel.
A tremendous blast of wind filled   the shaft, pulling the kender   off the wall
as easily as a winter gale rips a   leaf off a tree. Falling, Tas   looked back
up, watching the light at the top   of the shaft grow smaller and   smaller. He
wondered briefly just how big the   Hammer of Reorx was, and then   he stopped
falling.

For a moment, the wind tumbled him end over end. Then it switched directions,
blowing him sideways. I'm not going to the other side of the world after all,
he thought sadly. Sighing, he sailed along through another tunnel. Then he
suddenly felt himself start to rise! A great wind was wafting him up the
shaft! It was an unusual sensation, quite exhilarating. Instinctively, he
spread his arms to see if he could touch the sides of whatever it was he was
in. As he spread his arms, he noticed that he rose faster, borne gently upward
on swift currents of air.

Perhaps I'm dead, Tas thought. I'm dead and now I'm lighter than air. How can
I tell? Putting his arms down, he felt frantically for his pouches. He wasn't
certain-the kender had very vague ideas as to the afterlife-but he had a
feeling they wouldn't let him take his things with him. No, everything was
there. Tas breathed a sigh of relief that turned into a gulp when he
discovered himself slowing down and even starting to fall!

What? he thought wildly, then realized he had pulled both his arms in close to
his body. Hurriedly he thrust his arms out again and, sure enough, he began to
rise. Convinced that hey wasn't dead, he gave himself up to enjoying the
flight.

Fluttering his hands, the kender rolled over on his back in midair, and stared
up to see where he was going.

Ah, there was a light far above him, growing brighter and brighter. Now he
could see that he was in a shaft, but it was much longer than the shaft he had
tumbled down.

"Wait until Flint hears about this!" he said wistfully. Then he caught a
glimpse of six jewels, like the ones he'd seen in the other shaft. The rushing
wind began to lessen.

Just as he decided that he could really enjoy taking up flying as a way of
life, Tas reached the top of the shaft. The air currents held him even with
the stone floor of a torch-lit chamber. Tas waited a moment to see if he might
start flying again, and he even flapped his arms a bit to help, but nothing
happened. Apparently his flight had ended.

I might as well explore while I'm up here, the kender thought with a sigh.
Jumping out of the air currents, he landed lightly on the stone floor, then
began to look around.

Several torches flared on the walls, illuminating the chamber with a bright
white radiance. This room was certainly much larger than the tomb! He was
standing at the bottom of a great curving staircase. The huge flagstones of
each step-as well as all the other stone in the room-were pure white, much
different from the black stone of the tomb. The staircase curved to the right,
leading up to what appeared to be another level of the chamber. Above him, he
could see a railing overlooking the stairs-apparently there was some sort of
balcony up there. Nearly breaking his neck trying to see, Tas thought he could
make out swirls and splotches of bright colors shining in the torchlight from
the opposite wall.
Who lit the torches, he wondered? What is this place? Part of Huma's tomb? Or
did I fly up into the Dragon Mountain? Who lives here? Those torches didn't
light themselves!

At that thought-just to be safe-Tas reached into his tunic and drew out his
little knife. Holding it in his hand, he climbed the grand stairs and came out
onto the balcony. It was a huge chamber, but he could see little of it in the
flickering torchlight. Gigantic pillars supported the massive ceiling
overhead. Another great staircase rose from this balcony level to yet another
floor. Tas turned around, leaning against the railing to look at the walls
behind him.

"Reorx's beard!" he said softly. "Look at that!"

That was a painting. A mural, to be more precise. It began opposite where Tas
was standing, at the head of the stairs, and extended on around the balcony in
foot after foot of shimmering color. The kender was not much interested in
artwork, but he couldn't recall ever seeing anything quite so beautiful. Or
had he? Somehow, it seemed familiar. Yes, the more he looked at it, the more
he thought he'd seen it before.

Tas studied the painting, trying to remember. On the wall directly across from
him was pictured a horrible scene of dragons of every color and description
descending upon the land. Towns blazed in flames-like Tarsis-buildings
crumbled, people were fleeing. It was a terrible sight, and the kender hurried
past it.

He continued walking along the balcony, his eyes on the painting. He had just
reached the central portion of the mural when he gasped.

"The Dragon Mountain! That's it-there, on the wall!" he whispered to himself
and was startled to hear his whisper come echoing back to him. Glancing around
hastily, he crept closer to the other edge of the balcony. Leaning over the
rail, he stared closely at the painting. It indeed showed the Dragon Mountain,
where he was now. Only this showed a view of the mountain as if some giant
sword had chopped it completely in half vertically!

"How wonderful!" The map-loving kender sighed. "Of course." he said. "It is a
map! And that's where I am! I've gone up into the mountain." He looked around
the room in sudden realization. "I'm in the throat of the dragon. That's why
this room is such a funny shape." He turned back to the map. "There's the
painting on the wall and there's the balcony I'm standing on. And the pillars.
. ." He turned completely around. "Yes, there's the grand staircase." He
turned back. "It leads up into the head! And there's how I came up. Some sort
of wind chamber. But who built this . . . and why?"

Tasslehoff continued on around the balcony, hoping to find a clue in the
painting. On the right-hand side of the gallery; another battle was portrayed.
But this one didn't fill him with horror. There were red dragons, and black,
and blue, and white-breathing fire and ice-but fighting them were other
dragons, dragons of silver and of gold ....

"I remember!" shouted Tasslehoff.

The kender begin jumping up and down, yelling like a wild thing. "I remember!
I remember! It was in Pax Tharkas. Fizban showed me. There are good dragons in
the world. They'll help us fight the evil ones! We just have to find them. And
there are the dragonlances!"

"Confound it!" snarled a voice below the kender. "Can't a person get some
sleep? What is all this racket? You're making noise enough to wake the dead!"
Tasslehoff whirled around in alarm, his knife in his hand. He could have sworn
he was alone up here. But, no. Rising up off a stone bench that stood in a
shadowy area out of the torchlight was a dark, robed figure. It shook itself,
stretched, then got up and began to climb the stairs, moving swiftly toward
the kender. Tas could not have gotten away, even if he had wanted to, and the
kender found himself intensely curious about who was up here. He opened his
mouth to ask this strange creature what it was and why it had chosen the
throat of a Dragon Mountain to nap in, when the figure emerged into the light.
It was an old man. It was...

Tasslehoff's knife clattered to the floor. The kender sagged back against the
railing. For the first, last, and only time in his life, Tasslehoff Burrfoot
was struck speechless.

"F-F-F . . ."Nothing came out of his throat, only a croak.

"Well, what is it? Speak up!" snapped the old man, looming over him. "You were
making enough noise a minute ago. What's the matter? Something go down the
wrong way?"

"F-F-F . . ." stuttered Tas weakly.

"Ah, poor boy. Afflicted, eh? Speech impediment. Sad, sad. Here-"The old man
fumbled in his robes, opening numerous pouches while Tasslehoff stood
trembling before him.

"There." the figure said. Drawing forth a coin, he put it in the kender's numb
palm and closed his small, lifeless fingers over it. "Now, run along. Find a
cleric . . ."

"Fizban!" Tasslehoff was finally able to gasp.

"Where?"   The old man whirled around. Raising his staff, he peered fearfully
into the   darkness. Then something seemed to occur to him. Turning back around,
he asked   Tas in a loud whisper, "I say, are you sure you saw this Fizban?
Isn't he   dead?"

"I know I thought so... " Tas said miserably.

"Then he shouldn't be wandering around, scaring people!" the old man declared
angrily. "I'll have a talk with him. Hey,you!" he began to shout.

Tas reached out a trembling hand and tugged at the old man's robe. "I-I'm not
sure, b-but I think you're Fizban ."

"No, really?" the old man said, taken aback. "I was feeling a bit under the
weather this morning, but I had no idea it was as bad as all that." His
shoulders sagged. "So I'm dead. Done for. Bought the farm. Kicked the bucket."
He staggered to a bench and plopped down. "Was it a nice funeral?" he asked.
"Did lots of people come? Was there a twenty-one gun salute? I always wanted a
twenty-one gun salute."

"I-uh.." Tas stammered, wondering what a gun was. "Well, it was . . . more of
a . . . memorial service you might say. You see, we-uh-couldn't find your-how
shall I put this?"

"Remains?" the old man said helpfully.

"Uh . . . remains." Tas flushed. 'We looked, but there were all these chicken
feathers . . . and a dark elf . . . and Tanis said we were lucky to have
escaped alive ..."

"Chicken feathers!" said the old man indignantly. "What have chicken feathers
got to do with my funeral?"

"We-uh-you and me and Sestun. Do you remember Sestun, the gully dwarf? Well,
there was that great, huge chain in Pax Tharkas. And that big red dragon. We
were hanging onto the chain and the dragon breathed fire on it and the chain
broke and we were falling"-Tas was warming up to his story; it had become one
of his favorites-"and I knew it was all over. We were going to die. There must
have been a seventy-foot drop (this increased every time Tas told the tale)
and you were beneath me and I heard you chanting a spell-"

"Yes, I'm quite a good magician, you know."

"Uh right" Tas stammered, then continued hurriedly. "You enchanted this spell
-Featherfall or something like that. Anyway, you only said the first word"
'feather' and suddenly"-the kender spread his hands, a look of awe on his face
as he remembered what happened then-"there were millions and millions and
millions of chicken feathers. . . "

"So what happened next?" The old man demanded, poking Tas.

"Oh, uh, that's where it gets a bit-uh-muddled," Tas said. "I heard a scream
and a thump. Well, it was more like a splatter actually, and I f-f-figured the
splatter was you."

"Me?" the old man shouted. "Splatter!" He glared at the kender furiously. "I
never in my life splattered!"

"Then Sestun and I tumbled down into the chicken feathers, along with the
chain. I looked-I really did." Tas's eyes filled with tears as he remembered
his heartbroken search for the old man's body. "But there were too many
feathers . . . and there was this terrible commotion outside where the dragons
were fighting. Sestun and I made it to the door, and then we found Tanis, and
I wanted to go back to look for you some more, but Tanis said no ..."

"So you left me buried under a mound of chicken feathers?"

"It was an awfully nice memorial service," Tas faltered. "Goldmoon spoke, and
Elistan. You didn't meet Elistan, but you remember Goldmoon, don't you? And
Tanis?"

"Goldmoon . . ." the old man murmured. "Ah, yes. Pretty girl. Big,
stern-looking chap in love with her."

"Riverwind!" said Tas in excitement. "And Raistlin?"

"Skinny fellow. Damn good magician." the old man said solemnly, "but he'll
never amount to anything if he doesn't do something about that cough."

"You are Fizban!" Tas said. Jumping up gleefully, he threw his arms around the
old man and hugged him tight.

"There, there," Fizban said, embarrassed, patting Tas an the back. "That's
quite enough. You'll crumple my robes. Don't sniffle. Can't abide it. Need a
hankie?"

"No, I've got one-"
"Now, that's better. Oh, I say, I believe that handkerchiefs mine. Those are
my initials-"

"Is it? You must have dropped it."

"I remember you now!" the old man said loudly. "You're Tassle,
Tassle-something-or-other."

"Tasslehoff. Tasslehoff Burrfoot," the kender replied.

"And I'm-" The old man stopped. "What did you say the name was?"

"Fizban."

"Fizban. Yes. . ." The old man pondered a moment, then he shook his head. "I
sure thought he was dead..."



Silvara's secret.

"How did you survive?" Tas asked; pulling some dried fruit from a pouch to
share with Fizban.

The old man appeared wistful. "I really didn't think I did." he
said apologetically. "I'm afraid I haven't the vaguest notion. But, come to
think of it, I haven't been able to eat a chicken since. Now"-he stared at the
kender shrewdly- "what are you doing here?"

"I came with same of my friends. The rest are wandering around somewhere, if
they're still alive." He sniffed again.

"They are. Don't worry." Fizban patted him on the back.

"Do you think so?" Tas brightened. "Well, anyway, we're here with Silvara-"

"Silvara!"The old man leaped to his feet, his white hair flying out wildly.
The vague look faded from his face.

"Where is she?" the old man demanded sternly. "And your friends, where are
they?"

"D-downstairs." stammered Tas, startled at the old man's transformation.
"Silvara cast a spell on them!"

"Ah, she did, did she?" the old man muttered. "We'll see about that. Come on."
He started off along the balcony, walking so rapidly Tas had to run to keep
up.

"Where'd you say they were?" the old man asked, stopping near the stairs. "Be
specific." he snapped.

"Uh-the tomb! Huma's tomb! I think it's Huma's tomb. That's what Silvara
said."

"Humpf. Well, at least we don't have to walk."

Descending the stairs to the hole in the floor Tas had come up through, the
old man stepped out into its center. Tas, gulping a little, joined him,
clutching at the old man's robes. They hung suspended over nothing but
darkness, feeling cool air waft up around them.

"Down," the old man stated.

They began to rise, drifting toward the ceiling of the upper gallery. Tas felt
the hair stand up on his head.

"I said down!" the old man shouted furiously, waving his staff menacingly at
the hole below him.

There was a slurping sound and both of them were sucked into the hole so
rapidly that Fizban's hat flew off. It's just like the hat he lost in the red
dragon's lair, Tas thought. It was bent and shapeless, and apparently
possessed of a mind of its own. Fizban made a wild grab for it, but missed.
The hat, however, floated down after them, about fifty feet above.

Tasslehoff peered down, fascinated, and started to ask a question, but Fizban
shushed him. Gripping his staff, the old mage began whispering to himself,
making an odd sign in the air.

Laurana opened her eyes. She was lying on a cold stone bench, staring at a
black, glistening ceiling. She had no idea where she was. Then memory
returned. Silvara!

Sitting up swiftly, she flashed a glance around the room. Flint was groaning
and rubbing his neck. Theros blinked and looked around, puzzled. Gilthanas,
already an his feet, stood at the end of Huma's tomb, gazing down at something
by the door. As Laurana walked over to him, he turned around. Putting his
finger to his lips, he nodded in the direction of the doorway.

Silvara sat there, her head in her arms, sobbing bitterly.

Laurana hesitated, the angry words on her lips dying. This certainly wasn't
what she had expected. What had she expected? she asked herself. Never to wake
again, most likely. There had to be an explanation. She started forward.

"Silvara-" she began.

The girl leaped up, her tear-stained face white with fear.

"What are you doing awake? How did you free yourself from my spell?" she
gasped, falling back against the wall.

"Never mind that!" Laurana answered, though she hadn't any idea how she had
wakened. "Tell us-"

"It was my doing!" announced a deep voice, Laurana and the rest turned around
to see a white-bearded old man in mouse-colored robes rise up solemnly out of
the hole in the floor.

"Fizban!" whispered Laurana in disbelief.

There was a dunk and a thud. Flint toppled over in a dead faint. No one even
looked at him. They simply stared at the old mage in awe. Then, with a shrill
shriek, Silvara flung herself flat on the cold stone floor, shivering and
whimpering softly.

Ignoring the stares of the others, Fizban walked across the floor of the tomb,
past the bier, past the comatose dwarf, to come to Silvara. Behind him,
Tasslehoff scrambled up out of the hole.

"Look who I found" the kender said proudly. "Fizban! And I flew, Laurana, I
jumped into the hole and just flew straight up into the air. And there's a
painting up there with gold dragons, and then Fizban sat up and yelled at me
and-I must admit I felt really queer there for a while. My voice was gone and
. . . what happened to Flint?"

"Hush, Tas," Laurana said weakly, her eyes on Fizban. Kneeling down, he shook
the Wilder elfmaid.

"Silvara, what have you done?" Fizban asked sternly.

Laurana thought then that perhaps she had made a mistake-this must be some
other old man dressed in the old magician's clothes. This stern-faced,
powerful man was certainly not the befuddled old mage she remembered. But no,
she'd recognize that face anywhere, to say nothing of the hat!

Watching the two of them-Silvara and Fizban-before her, Laurana felt great and
awesome power like silent thunder surging between the two. She had a terrible
longing to run out of this place and keep running until she dropped with
exhaustion. But she couldn't move. She could only stare.

"What have you done, Silvara?" Fizban demanded. "You have broken your oath!"

"No!" The girl moaned, writhing on the ground at the old mage's feet. "No, I
haven't. Not yet-"

"You have walked the world in another body, meddling in the affairs of men.
That alone would be sufficient. But you brought them here!"

Silvara's tear-stained face was twisted in anguish. Laurana felt her own tears
sliding unchecked down her cheeks.

"All right then!" Silvara cried defiantly. "I broke my oath, or at least I
intended to. I brought them here. I had to! I've seen the misery and the
suffering. Besides"-her voice fell, her eyes stared far away-"they had an orb
. . ."

"Yes." said Fizban softly. "A dragon orb. Taken from Ice Wall Castle. It fell
into your possession. What have you done with it, Silvara? Where is it now?"

"I sent it away . . ." Silvara said almost inaudibly.

Fizban seemed to age. His face grew weary. Sighing deeply, he leaned heavily
upon his staff. "Where did you send it, Silvara? Where is the dragon orb now?"

"St-Sturm has it." Laurana interrupted fully. "He took it to Sancrist. What
does this mean? Is Sturm in danger?"

"Who?" Fizban peered around over his shoulder. "Oh, hullo there, my dear." He
beamed at her. "So nice to see you again.. How's your father?"

"My father-" Laurana shook her head, confused. "Look, old man, never mind my
father! "Who -"

"And your brother." Fizban extended a hand to Gilthanas. "Good to see you,
son. And you, sir." He bowed to am astonished Theros. "Silver arm? My, my"-he
stole a look back at Silvara "what a coincidence. Theros Ironfeld, isn't it!
Heard a lot about you. And my name is. . ."
The old magician paused, his brow furrowed.

"My name is . ."
"Fizban." supplied Tasslehoff helpfully.

"Fizban ." The old man nodded, smiling.

Laurana thought she saw the old magician cast a warning glance at Silvara. The
girl lowered her head as if to acknowledge some silent, secret signal passed
between them.

But before Laurana could sort out her whirling thoughts, Fizban turned back to
her again. "And now, Laurana, you wonder who Silvara is? It is up to Silvara
to tell you. For I must leave you now. I have a long journey ahead of me."

"Must I tell them?" Silvara asked softly. She was still on her knees and, as
she spoke, her eyes went to Gilthanas. Fizban followed her gaze. Seeing the
elflord's stricken face, his own face softened. Then he shook his head sadly.

Silvara raised her hands to him in a pleading gesture. Fizban walked over to
her. Taking her hands, he raised her to her feet. She threw her arms around
him, and he held her close.

"No, Silvara," he said, his voice kind and gentle, "you do not have to tell
them. The choice is yours that was your sister's. You can make them forget
they were ever here."

Suddenly the only color left in Silvara's face was the deep blue of her eyes.
"But, that will mean-"

"Yes, Silvara," he said. "It is up to you." He kissed the girl on the
forehead. "Farewell, Silvara."

Turning, he looked back at the rest. "Good-bye, good-bye. Nice seeing you
again. I'm a bit miffed aback the chicken feathers, but-no hard feelings." He
waited impatiently a minute, glaring at Tasslehoff. "Are you coming? I haven't
got all night!"

"Coming? With you?" Tas, cried, dropping Flint's head back onto the stone
floor with a chunk. The kender stood up. "Of course, let me get my pack . . ."
Then he stopped, glancing down at the unconscious dwarf. "Flint?"

"He'll be fine," Fizban promised, "you won't be parted from your friends long.
We'll see them"-he frowned, muttering to himself-"seven days, add three, carry
the one, what's seven tunes four? Oh well, around Famine Time. That's when
they'll hold the Council meeting. Now, come along. I've got work to do. Your
friends are in good hands. Silvara will take care of them, won't you, my
dear?" He turned to the Wilder elf.

"I will tell them." she promised sadly, eyes on Gilthanas.

The elflord was staring at her and at Fizban, his face pale, fear spreading
through his soul.

Silvara sighed. "You are right. I broke the oath long ago. I must finish what
I set out to do."

"As you think best." Fizban laid his hand upon Silvara's head, stroking her
silver hair. Then he turned away.
"Will I be punished?" she asked, just as the old man stepped into the shadows.

Fizban stopped. Shaking his head, he looked back aver his shoulder. "Some
would say you are being punished right now, Silvara," he said softly. "But
what you do, you do out of love. As the choice was up to you, so is your
punishment."

The old man stepped into the darkness. Tasslehoff ran after him, his pouches
bouncing behind him. "Good-bye, Laurana! Good-bye, Theros! Take care of
Flint!" In the silence that followed, Laurana could hear the old man's voice.

"What was that name again? Fizbut, Furball?"

"Fizban!" said Tas, shrilly.

"Fizban... Fizban..." muttered the old man.

All eyes turned to Silvara.

She was calm now, at peace with herself. Although her face was filled with
sorrow, it was not the tormented, bitter sorrow they had seen earlier. This
was the sorrow of loss, the quiet, accepting sorrow of one who has nothing to
regret.

Silvara walked toward Gilthanas. She took hold of his hands and looked up into
his face with so much love that Gilthanas felt blessed, even as he knew she
was going to tell him good-bye.

"I am losing you, Silvara." He murmured in broken tones. "I see it in your
eyes.. But I don't know why! You love me-"

"I love you, elflord. Silvara said softly.. "I loved you when I saw you lying
injured upon the sand. When you looked up and smiled at me, I knew that the
fate which had befallen my sister was to be mine, too." She sighed. "But it is
a risk we take when we choose this form. Far though we bring our strength into
it, .. the form inflicts its weaknesses upon us. Or is it a weakness? To love
. . ."

"Silvara, I don't understand!" Gilthanas cried.

"You will." she promised, her voice soft. Her head bowed.

Gilthanas took her in his hands, holding her. She buried her face in his
chest. He kissed her beautiful silver hair, then clasped her with a sob.

Laurana turned away. This grief seemed too sacred for her eyes to intrude
upon. Swallowing her own tears, she looked around and then remembered the
dwarf. She took some water from his waterskin and sprinkled it on Flint's
face.

His eyes fluttered, then opened. The dwarf stared up at Laurana for a moment
and reached out a trembling hand.

"Fizban!" the dwarf whispered hoarsely.

"I know." Laurana said, wondering how the dwarf would take the news about
Tas's leaving.

"Fizban's dead!" Flint gasped. "Tas said so! In a pile of chicken feathers!"
The dwarf struggled to sit up. "Where is that rattle-brained kender?"

"He's gone, Flint." Laurana said. "He went with Fizban."

"Gone?" The dwarf looked around blankly. "You let him go? With that old man?"

"I'm afraid so-"

"You let him go with a dead old man?"

"I really didn't have much choice." Laurana smiled. "It was his decision.
He'll be fine-'

"Where'd they go?" Flint stood and shouldered his pack.

"You can't go after them," Laurana said. "Please, Flint." She put her arm
around the dwarf's shoulders. "I need you. You're Tanis's oldest friend, my
advisor-"

"But he's gone without me' ' Flint said plaintively. "How could he leave? I
didn't see him go?"

"You fainted."

"I did no such thing!" the dwarf roared.

"You-you were out cold." Laurana stammered.

"I never faint!" stated the dwarf indignantly. "It must have been a recurrence
of that deadly disease I caught on board that boat-" Flint dropped his pack
and slumped down beside it. "Idiot kender, Running off with a dead old man."

Theros came aver to Laurana, drawing her to one side. "Who was that old man?"
he asked curiously.

"It's a long story." Laurana sighed. "And I'm not certain I could answer that
question anyway."

"He seems familiar." Theros frowned and shook his head. "But I can't remember
where I've seen him before, though he puts me in mind of Solace and the Inn of
the Last Home. And he knew me. . ." The blacksmith stared at his silver hand.
"I felt a shock go through me when he looked at me, like lightning striking a
tree." The big blacksmith shivered, then he glanced over at Silvara and
Gilthanas. "And what of this?"

"I think we're finally about to find out," Laurana said.

"You were right," Theros said. "You didn't trust her-"

"But not for the right reasons." Laurana admitted guiltily.

With a small sigh, Silvara pushed herself away from Gilthanas's embrace. The
elflord let her go reluctantly.

"Gilthanas," she said, drawing a shuddering breath, "take a torch off the wall
and hold it up before me."

Gilthanas hesitated. Then, almost angrily, he followed her directions.

"Hold the torch there . . ." she instructed, guiding his hand so that the
light blared right before her. "Now-look at my shadow on the wall behind me,"
she said in trembling tones.

The tomb was silent, only the sputtering of the flaming torch made any sound.
Silvara's shadow sprang into life on the cold stone wall behind lever. The
companions stared at it and-for an instant-none of them could say a word.

The shadow Silvara cast upon the wall was not the shadow of a young elfmaid.

It was the shadow of a dragon.

"You're a dragon!"' Laurana said in shocked disbelief. She laid her hand on
lever sword, but Theros stopped her.

"No!" he said suddenly. "I remember. That old man-" he looked at his arm. "Now
I remember. He used to come intro the Inn of the Last Home! He was dressed
differently. He wasn't a mage, but it was him! I'll swear it! He told stories
to the children. Stories about good dragons. Gold dragons and-"

"Silver dragons," Silvara said, looking at Theros. "I am a silver dragon. My
sister was the Silver Dragon who loved Huma and fought the final great battle
with him-"

"No!" Gilthanas flung the torch to the ground. It lag flickering for a moment
at his feet, them he stamped on it angrily, putting out its light. Silvara,
watching him with sad eyes, reached out her hand to comfort him.

Gilthanas shrank from her touch, staring at her in horror.

Silvara lowered her hand slowly. Sighing gently, she nodded. "I understand."
she murmured. "I'm sorry."

Gilthanas began to shake, then doubled over in agony. Putting his strong arms
around him, Theros led Gilthanas to a bench and covered him with his cloak.

"I'll be all right," Gilthanas mumbled. "Just leave me alone, let me think.
This is madness! It's all a nightmare. A dragon!" He closed his eyes tightly
as if he could blot out their sight forever, "A dragon. . ." he whispered
brokenly. Theros patted him gently, then returned to the others.

"Where are the rest of the good dragons?" Theros asked. "The old man said
there were many. Silver dragons, gold dragons-"

"There are many of us." Silvara answered reluctantly.

"Like the silver dragon we saw in Ice Wall!" Laurana said. "It was a good
dragon. If there are many of you, bind together! Help us fight the evil
dragons!"

"No!" Silvara cried fiercely. Her blue eyes flared, and Laurana fell back a
pace before her anger.

"Why not?"

"I cannot tell you." Silvara's hands clenched nervously.

"It has something to do with that oath!" Laurana persisted. "Doesn't it? The
oath you've broken. And the punishment you asked Fizban about-"
"I cannot tell you!" Silvara spoke in a low, passionate voice. "What I have
done is bad enough. But I had to do something! I could no longer live in this
world and see the suffering of innocent people! I thought perhaps I could
help, so I took elven form- and I did what I could I worked tang, trying to
get the elves to join together. I kept them from war, but matters were growing
worse. Then you came, and I saw that we were in great peril, greater than any
of us lead ever imagined. For you brought with you-" Her voice faltered.

"The dragon orb!" Laurana said suddenly.

"Yes." Silvara's fists clenched in misery. "I knew then I had to make a
decision. You had the orb, but you also had the lance. The lance and the orb
coming to me! Both, together! It was a sign. I thought, but I didn't know what
to do. I decided to bring the orb here and keep it safe forever. Then, as we
traveled, I realized the knights would never allow it to remain here. There
would be trouble. So, when I saw my chance, I sent it away." Her shoulders
sagged. "That was apparently the wrong decision. But how was I to know?"

'Why?" Theros asked severely. "What does the orb do? Is it evil? Have you sent
those knights to their doom?"

"Great evil." Silvara murmured. "Great good. Who can say? Even I do not
understand the dragon orbs. They were forged long ago by the most powerful of
magic-users."

"But the book Tas read said they could be used to control dragons?" Flint
staked. "He read it with some kind of glasses. Glasses of true seeing, he
called 'em. He said they don't lie-"

"No," said Silvara sadly. "That is true. It is too true-as I fear your friends
may discover to their bitter regret."

The companions, fear closing around them, sat together in silence broken only
by Gilthanas's choking sobs. The torches sent shadows dodging and dancing
around the quiet tomb like undead spirits. Laurana remembered Huma and the
Silver Dragon. She thought of that final, terrible battle-the skies filled
with dragons, the land erupting inflame and in blood.

"Why have you brought us here, then?" Laurana asked Silvara quietly. "Why not
just let us all take the orb away?"

"Can I tell them? Do I have the strength?" Silvara whispered to an unseen
spirit.

She sat quietly for a long tine, her face expressionless, her hands twisting
in her lap. Her eyes closed, her head bowed, her lips moved. She covered her
face with her hands and sat quite silly. Then; shuddering, she made her
decision.

Rising to her feet, Silvara walked over to Laurana's pack. Kneeling down, she
slowly and carefully unwrapped the broken shaft of wood that the companions
had carried such a long and wean, distance. Silvara stood, her face once mare
filled with peace. But now there was also pride and strength. Far the first
time, Laurana began to believe this girl was something as powerful and
magnificent as a dragon, Walking proudly, her silver hair glistening in the
torchlight, Silvara walked aver to strand before Theros Ironfeld.

"To Theros of the Silver Arm," she said; "I give the power to forge the
dragonlance."


Book Three
The Red Wizard and His wonderful Illusions!

Shadows crept across the dusty tables of the Pig and Whistle tavern. The sea
breeze off the Bay of Balifor made a shrill whistling sound as it blew through
the ill-fitting front windows that distinctive whistle giving the inn the last
part of its name. Any guesses as to how the tavern got the first part ended on
sight of the innkeeper. A jovial, kind-hearted man, William Sweetwater had
been cursed at birth (so town legend went) when a wandering pig overturned the
baby's cradle, so frightening young William that the mark of the pig was
forever imprinted on his face.

This unfortunate resemblance had certainly not impaired William's temper,
however. A sailor by trade until he had retired to fulfill a life-long
ambition of keeping an inn, there was not a more respected or well-liked man
in Port Balifor than William Sweetwater. No one laughed more heartily at pig
jokes than did William. He could even grunt quite realistically and often did
pig imitations for the amusement of his customers. But no one ever-after the
untimely death of Peg-Leg Al, called William by the name "Piggy".

William rarely grunted for his customers these days. The atmosphere of the Pig
and Whistle was dark and gloomy. The few old customers that came sat huddled
together, talking in low voices. For Port Balifor was an occupied town-overrun
by the armies of the highlords, whose ships had recently sailed into the Bay,
disgorging troops of the hideous dragonmen.

The people of Port Balifor-mostly humans-felt extremely sorry for themselves.
They had no knowledge of what was going on in the outside world, of course, or
they would have counted their blessings. No dragons came to burn their town.
The draconians generally left the citizens alone. The Dragon Highlords were
not particularly interested in the eastern part of the Ansalon continent. The
land was sparsely populated: a few poor, scattered communities of humans and
Kendermore, the homeland of the kenders. A flight of dragons could have
leveled the countryside, but the Dragon Highlords were concentrating their
strength in the north and the west. As long as the parts remained opened, the
Highlords had no need to devastate the lands of Balifor and Goodlund.

Although not many old customers came to the Pig and Whistle, business had
improved for William Sweetwater. The draconian and goblin troops of the
Highlord were well paid, and their one weakness was strong drink. But William
had not opened his tavern for money. He loved the companionship of old friends
and new. He did not enjoy the companionship of the Highlord's troops. When
they came in, his old customers left. Therefore, William promptly raised his
prices for draconians to three times higher than in any other inn in town. He
also watered the ale. Consequently, his bar was nearly deserted except for a
few old friends. This arrangement suited William fine.

He was talking to a few of these friends- sailors mostly, with brown,
weathered skin and no teeth-on the evening that the strangers entered his
tavern. William glared at them suspiciously for a moment, as did his friends.
But, seeing roadweary travelers and not the Highlord's soldiers, he greeted
them cordially and showed them to a table in the corner.

The strangers ordered ale all around-except for a red-robed man who ordered
nothing but hot water. Then, after a subdued discussion centering around a
worn leather purse and the number of coins therein, they asked William to
bring them bread and cheese.

"They're not from these parts." William said to his friends in a low voice as
he drew the ale from a special keg he kept beneath the bar (not the keg for
draconians). "And poor as a sailor after a week ashore, if I make my guess."

"Refugees." said his friend, eyeing them speculatively.

"Odd mixture, though," added the other sailor. "Yon redbearded fellow's a
half-elf, if ever I saw one. And the big one's got weapons enough to take on
the Highlord's whole army."

"I'll wager he's stuck a few of them with that sword, too," William grunted.
"They're on the run from something, I'll bet. Look at the way that bearded
fellow keeps his ages on the door. Well, we can't help them fight the
Highlord, but I'll see they don't want for anything." He went to serve them.

"Put your money away." William said gruffly, plunking down not only bread and
cheese but also a tray full of cold meats as well. He shoved the coins away.
"You're in trouble of some kind, that's plain as this pig's snout upon my
face."

One of the women smiled at him. She was the most beautiful woman William had
ever seen. Her silver-gold hair gleamed from beneath a fur hood, her blue eyes
were like the ocean on a calm day. When she smiled at him, William felt the
warmth of fine brandy run through his body. But a stern-faced, darkhaired man
next to her shoved the coins back to the innkeeper.

"We'll not accept charity," the tall, fur-cloaked man said.

"We won't?" asked the big man wistfully, staring at the smoked meat with
longing eyes.

"Riverwind," the woman remonstrated, putting a gentle hand on his arm. The
half-elf, too, seemed about to interpose when the red-robed man, who had
ordered the hot water, reached out and picked up a coin from the table.

Balancing the coin on the back of his bony, metallic-colored hand, the man
suddenly and effortlessly sent it dancing along his knuckles. William's eyes
opened wide. His two friends at the bar came closer to see better. The coin
flickered in and out of the red-robed magi's fingers, spinning and jumping. It
vanished high in the air, only to reappear above the mage's head in the form
of six coins, spinning around his hood. With a gesture, he sent them to spin
around William's head. The sailors watched in open-mouthed wonder.

"Take one for your trouble," said the mage in a whisper.

Hesitantly, William tried to grab the coins that whirled past his eyes, but
his hand went right through them! Suddenly all six coins disappeared. One only
remained now, resting in the palm of the red-robed wage.

"I give you this in payment," the mage said with a sly smile, "but be careful.
It may burn a hole in your pocket."

William accepted the coin gingerly. Holding it between two fingers,   he gazed
at it suspiciously, Then the coin burst into flame! With a startled   yelp,
William dropped it to the floor, stomping one it with his foot. His   two
friends burst out laughing. Picking up the coin, William discovered   it to be
perfectly cold and undamaged.

"That's worth the meat!" the innkeeper said, grinning.

"And a night's lodgings." added his friend, the sailor, slapping down a
handful of coins.
"I believe." said Raistlin softly, glancing around at the others, "that we
have solved our problems."

Thus was born The Red Wizard and His Wonderful Illusions, a traveling road
show that is still talked of today as far south as Port Balifor and as far
north as the Ruins.

The very next night the red-robed mage began to perform his tricks to an
admiring audience of William's friends. The word spread rapidly. After the
mage had performed in the Pig and Whistle for about a week, Riverwind-at first
opposed to the whole idea-was forced to admit that Raistlin's act seemed
likely to solve not only their financial problems but other, more pressing
problems as well. The shortage of money was the most urgent. The companions
might have been able to live off the land-even in the winter, both Riverwind
and Tanis being skilled hunters. But they needed money to buy passage on a
ship to take them to Sancrist. Once they had the money, they needed to be able
to travel freely through enemy-occupied lands.

In his youth, Raistlin had often used his considerable talents at sleight of
hand to earn bread far himself and his brother. Although this was frowned on
by his master, who threatened to expel the young mage from his school,
Raistlin had become quite successful. Now his growing powers in magic gave him
a range not possible before. He literally kept his audiences spellbound with
tricks and phantasms.

At Raistlin's command, white-winged ships sailed up and down the bar at the
Pig and Whistle, birds flew out of soup tureens, while dragons peered through
the windows, breathing fire upon the startled guests. In the grand finale, the
mage resplendent in red robes sewn by Tika-appeared to be totally consumed in
raging flames, only to walk in through the front door moments later (to
tumultuous applause) and calmly drink a glass of white wine to the health of
the guests.

Within a week, the Pig and Whistle did more business than William had done in
a year. Better still-as far as he was concerned-his friends were able to
forget their troubles. Soon, however, unwanted guests began to arrive. At
first, he had been angered by the appearance of draconians and goblins in the
crowd, but Tanis placated him, and William grudgingly permitted them to watch.

Tanis was, in fact, pleased to see them. It worked out well from the
half-elf's point of view and solved their second problem. If the Highlord's
troops enjoyed the show and spread the word, the companions could travel the
countryside unmolested.

It was their plan-after consulting with William-to make, for Flotsam, a city
north of Poet Balifor, located on the Blood Sea of Istar. Here they hoped to
find a ship. No one in Port Bali-for would give them passage, William
explained. As the local shipowners were in the employ of (or their vessels had
been; confiscated by) the Dragon Highlords. But Flotsam was a known haven for
those more interested in money than politics. The companions stayed at the Pig
and Whistle for a month..

William provided free room and board and even allowed them to keep all the
money they made. Though Riverwind protested this generosity, William stated
firmly that all he cared about was seeing his old customers come back.

During this time, Raistlin refined and enlarged his act which, at first
consisted only of his illusions. But the mage tired rapidly, so Tika offered
to dance and give him time to rest between acts. Raistlin was dubious, but
Tika sewed a costume for herself that was so alluring that Caramon was-at
first-totally opposed to the scheme. But Tika only laughed at him. Her dancing
was a success and increased the money they collected dramatically. Raistlin
added her immediately to the act.

Finding the crowds enjoyed this diversion, the mage thought of others. Caramon
-blushing furiously-was persuaded to perform feats of strength, the highlight
coming when he lifted stout William over his head with one hand. Tanis amazed
the crowd with his elven ability to "see" in the dark. But Raistlin was
startled one day when Goldmoon came to him as he was counting the money from
the previous night's performance.

"I would like to sing in the show tonight," she said.

Raistlin looked up at her incredulously. His eyes flicked to Riverwind. The
tall Plainsman nodded reluctantly.

"You have a powerful voice," Raistlin said, sliding the money into a pouch and
drawing the string tightly. "I remember quite well. The last song I heard you
sing in the Inn of the Last Home touched off a riot that nearly got us
killed."

Goldmoon flushed, remembering, the fateful song that had introduced her to the
group. Scowling, Riverwind laid his hand on her shoulder.

"Come away!" he said harshly, glaring at Raistlin. "I warned You-`
But Goldmoon shook her head stubbornly, lifting her chin in a familiar,
imperious gesture. "I will sing." she said coolly, "and Riverwind will,
accompany me. I have written a song."

"Very well," the mage snapped, slipping the money pouch into his robes. "We
will try it this evening."

The Pig and Whistle was crowded that night. It was a diverse audience-small
children and their parents, sailors, draconians, goblins and several kender,
who caused everyone to keep an ere on his belongings. William and two helpers
bustled about, serving drinks and food. Then the show began.

The crowd applauded Raistlin's spinning coins, laughed when an illusory pig
danced upon the bar, and scrambled out of their chairs in terror when a giant
troll thundered in through a window. Bowing, the mage left to rest. Tika came
on.

The crowd, particularly the draconians, cheered Tika's dancing, banging their
mugs on the table.

Then Goldmoon appeared before them, dressed in a gown of pale blue. Her
silver-gold hair flowed over her shoulders like water shimmering in the
moonlight. The crowd hushed instantly. Saying nothing, she sat down in a chair
on the raised platform William had hastily constructed. So beautiful was she
that not a murmur escaped the crowd. All waited expectantly.

Riverwind sat upon the floor at her feet. Putting a handcarved flute to his
lips, he began to play and, after a few moments, Goldmoon's voice blended with
the flute. Her song was simple, the melody sweet and harmonious, yet haunting.
But it was the words that caught Tanis's attention, causing him to exchange
worried glances with Caramon. Raistlin, sitting next to him, grasped hold of
Tanis's arm.

"I feared as much!" the mage hissed.   "Another riot!"
"Perhaps not," Tanis said, watching. "Look at the audience."

Women leaned their heads onto their husband's shoulders, children were quiet
and attentive. The draconians seemed spellbound-as a wild animal will
sometimes beheld by music. Only the goblins shuffled their flapping feet,
seemingly bored but so in awe of the draconians that they dared not protest.

Goldmoon's song was of the ancient gods. She told how the gods had sent the
Cataclysm to punish the Kingpriest of Istar and the people of Krynn for their
pride. She sang of the terrors of that night and those that followed. She
reminded them of how the people, believing, themselves abandoned, had prayed
to false gods. Then she gave them a message of hope: the gods had not
abandoned them. The true gods were here, waiting only for someone to listen to
them.

 After her song ended, and the plaintive wailing of the flute died, most in
the crowd shank their treads, seeming to wake froze a pleasant dream.. When
asked what the song had been about, they couldn't say. The draconians shrugged
and called far more ale. The goblins shouted for Tika to dance again. But,
here and there, Tanis noticed a face still holding the wonder had warn during
the song. And he was not surprised to see, young, dark-skinned woman approach
Goldmoon shyly.

"I ask your pardon for   disturbing you, my lady," Tanis heard the woman say,
"but your song touched   me deeply, I want to learn of the ancient gods, to
learn their ways."
Goldmoon smiled. "Come   to me tomorrow," she said, "an
shall teach you what I   know."
And thus, slowly, word   of the ancient gods began to spread.

By the time they left Port Balifor, the dark-skinned woman, soft-voiced young
man, and several other people wore the medallion of Mishakal, Goddess of
Healing. Secretly they w< forth, bringing hope to the dark and troubled land.

By the end of the month, the companions were able to buy a wagon, horses to
pull it, horses to ride, and supplies. What left went toward purchase of
ship's passage to Sancrist. They planned to add to their money by performing
in the small farming communities between Port Balifor and Flotsam.

When the Red Wizard left Port Balifor shortly before the Yuletide season, his
wagon was seen on its way by enthusiast crowds. Packed with their costumes,
supplies for two month
and a keg of ale (provided by William), the wagon was enough for Raistlin to
sleep and travel inside. It also held the multi-colored, striped tents in
which the others would live.

Tanis glanced around at the strange sight they made, shaking his head. It
seemed that - in the midst of everything else that had happened to them-this
was the most bizarre. He look at Raistlin sitting beside his brother, who
drove the wagon. The mage's red-sequined robes blazed like flame in the bright
win sunlight. Shoulders hunched against the wind, Raistlin stared straight
ahead, wrapped in a show of mystery that delighted the crowd. Caramon, dressed
in a bearskin suit (a present of William's), had pulled the head of the bear
over his own, ring it look as though a bear drove the wagon. The child cheered
as he growled at them in mock ferocity.

They were nearly out of town when a draconian command stopped them. Tanis, his
heart caught in his throat, rode forward, his hand pressed against his sword.
But the command only wanted to make certain they passed through Bloodwater
where draconian troops were located. The draconian had mentioned the show to a
friend. The troops were looking forward to seeing it. Tanis, inwardly vowing
not to set foot near the place, promised faithfully that they would certainly
appear.

Finally they reached the city gates. Climbing down from their mounts, they bid
farewell to their friend. William gave them each a hug, starting with Tika and
ending with Tika. He was going to hug Raistlin, but the mage's golden eyes
widened so alarmingly when William approached that the innkeeper backed away
precipitously.

The companions climbed back onto their horses. Raistlin and Caramon returned
to the wagon. The crowd cheered and urged them to return for the spring
Harrowing celebration. The guards opened the gates, bidding them a safe
journey, and the companions rode through. The gates shut behind them.

The wind blew chill. Gray clouds above them began to spit snow fitfully. The
road, which they were assured was well traveled, stretched before them, bleak
and empty. Raistlin began to shiver and cough. After a while, he said he would
ride inside the wagon. The rest pulled their hoods up over their heads and
clutched their fur cloaks more closely about them.

Caramon, guiding the horses along the rutted, muddy road, appeared unusually
thoughtful.

"You know, Tanis" he said solemnly above the jingling of the bells Tika had
tied to the horses' manes, "I'm more thankful than I can tell that none of our
friends saw this. Can you hear what Flint would say? That grumbling old dwarf
would never let me live this down. And can you imagine Sturm!" The big man
shook his head, the thought being beyond words.

Yes, Tanis sighed. I .can imagine Sturm. Dear friend, I never realized how
much I depended on you-your courage, your noble spirit. Are you alive my
friend? Did you reach Sancrist safely? Are you now the knight in body that you
have always been in spirit? Will we meet again, or have we parted never to
meet in this life-as Raistlin predicted?

The group rode on. The day grew darker, the storm wilder. Riverwind dropped
back to ride beside Goldmoon. Tika tied her horse behind the wagon and crawled
up to sit near Caramon. Inside the wagon. Raistlin slept.

Tanis rode alone, his head bowed, has thoughts far away.

The Knights trials.

"And-finally," said Derek in a low and measured voice, "I accuse Sturm
Brightblade of cowardice in the face of the enemy."

A low murmur ran through the assemblage of knights gathered in the castle of
Lord Gunthar. Three knights, seated at the massive black oak table in front of
the assembly, leaned their heads together to confer in low tones.

Long ago, the three seated at this Knights Trials-as prescribed by the
Measure-would have been the Grand Master, the High Clerics, and the High
Justice. But at this time there was no Grand Master. There had not been a High
Clerist since the time of the Cataclysm. And while the High Justice-Lard
Alfred MarKenin-was present, his hold on that position was tenuous at best.
Whoever became the new Grand Master had leave to replace him.

Despite these vacancies in the Head of the Order, the business of the Knights
must continue. Though not strong enough to claim the coveted position of Grand
Master, Lord Gunthar Uth Wistan was strong enough to act in that role. And so
he sat here today, at the beginning of the Yuletide season, in judgment on
this young squire, Sturm Brightblade. To his right sat Lord Alfred, to his
left, young Lord Michael Jeoffrey, filling in as High Clerist.

Facing them, in the Great Hall of Castle Uth Wistan, were twenty other Knights
of Solamnia who had been hastily gathered from all parts of Sancrist to sit as
witnesses to this Knights Trials-as prescribed by the Measure. These now
muttered and shook their heads as their leaders conferred.

From a table directly in front of the three Knights Seated in Judgment, Lord
Derek rose and bowed to Lord Guntha. His testimony had reached its end. There
remained now only the Knight's answer and the Judgment itself. Derek returned
to his place among the other knights, laughing and talking with them.

Only one person in the hall was silent. Sturm Brightblade sat unmoving
throughout all of Lord Derek Crownguard's damning accusations. He had heard
charges of insubordination, failure to obey orders, masquerading as a
knight-and not a word or murmur had escaped him. His face was carefully
expressionless, his hands were clasped on the top of the table.

Lord Gunthar's eyes were on Sturm now, as they had been throughout the Trials.
He began to wonder if the man was even still alive, so fixed and white was his
face, so rigid his posture. Gunthar had seen Sturm flinch only once. At the
charge of cowardice, a shudder convulsed the man's body. The looks on his face
. . . well, Gunthar recalled seeing that same look once previously-on a man
who had just been run through by a spear. But Sturm quickly regained his
composure.

Gunthar was so interested in watching Brightblade that he nearly lost track of
the conversation of the two knights next to him. He caught only the end of
Lord Alfred's sentence.

". . . not allow Knight's Answer."

"Why not?" Lord Gunthar asked sharply, though keeping his voice low. "It is
his right according to the Measure."

"We have never had a case like this." Lord Alfred, Knight of the Sword, stated
flatly. "Always before, when a squire has been brought up before the Council
of the Order to attain his knighthood, there have been witnesses, many
witnesses. He is given an opportunity to explain his reasons far his actions.
No one ever questions that he committed the acts. But Brightblade's only
defense-"

"Is to tell us that Derek lies" finished Lord Michael Jeoffrey Knight of the
Crown. "And that is unthinkable. To take the word of a squire over a Knight of
the Rose!"

"Nonetheless, the young man will have his say." Lord Gunthar said, glancing
sternly at each of the men. "That is the Law according to the Measure. Do
either of you question it?"

"No, of course not. But-"

"-very well." Gunthar smoothed his moustaches and, leaning forward, tapped
gently on the wooden table with the hilt of the sword-Sturm's sword-that lay
upon it. The other two knights exchanged looks behind his back, one raising
his eyebrows; the other shrugging slightly. Gunthar was aware of this, as he
was aware of all the covert scheming and plotting now pervasive in the
Knighthood. He chase to ignore it.

Not yet strong enough to claim the vacant position of Grand Master, but still
the strongest and most powerful of the knights currently seated an the
Council, Gunthar had been forced to ignore a great deal of what he would
have-in another day and age-quashed without hesitation.. He expected this
disloyalty of Alfred MarKenin-the knight had long been in Derek's camp but he
was surprised at Michael, whom he had thought loyal to him. Apparently Derek
had gotten to him, too.

Gunthar watched Derek Crownguard as the knights returned to their places.
Derek was the only rival with the money and backing capable of claiming the
rank of Grand Master. Hoping to earn additional votes, Derek had eagerly
volunteered to undertake the perilous quest in search of the legendary dragon
orbs. Gunthar was given little choice but to agree. If he had refused, he
would appear frightened of Derek's growing power. Derek was undeniably the
most qualified-if one strictly followed the Measure. But Gunthar, who had
known Derek a long time, would have prevented his going if he could have-not
because he feared the knight but because he truly did not trust him. The man
was vainglorious and powerhungry, and-when it came down to it-Derek's first
loyalties lay to Derek.

And now it appeared that Derek's successful return with a dragon orb had won
the day. It had brought many knights into his camp who had been heading that
direction anyway and actually enticed away some in Gunther's s own faction.
The only ones who opposed him still were the younger knights in the lowest
order of the Knighthood-Knights of the Crown.

These young men had little use for the strict and rigid interpretation of the
Measure that was life's blood to tire older knights. They pushed for
change-and had been severely chastened by Lard Derek Crownguard. Some came
close to losing their knighthood. These young knights were firmly behind Lord
Gunthar. Unfortunately, they were few in number and, for the most part, had
more loyalty than money. The young knights had, however, adopted Sturm's cause
as their own.

But this was Derek Crownguard's master stroke, Gunthar thought bitterly. With
one slice of his sword, Derek was going to get rid of a man he hated and his
chief rival as well.

Lord Gunthar was a well-known friend of the Brightblade family, a friendship
that traced back generations. It was Gunthar who had advanced Sturm's claim
when the young man appeared out of nowhere five years before to seep his
father and his inheritance. Sturm bad been able, with letters from his mother,
to prove his right to the Brightblade name. A few insinuated this had been
accomplished on the wrong side of the sheets, but Gunthar quickly squelched
those rumors. The young man was obviously the son of his old friend-that much
could be seen in Sturm's face. By backing Sturm, however; the lord was risking
a great deal.

Gunthar's gaze went to Derek, walking among the knights- smiling and shaking
hands. Yes, this trial was making him Lord Gunthar Ugh Wistan-appear a fool.

Worse still, Gunthar thought sadly, his eyes returning to Sturm, it was
probably going to destroy the career of what he believed to be a very fine
man, a man worthy of walking his father's path.

"Sturm Brightblade." Lord Gunthar said when silence descended on the hall,
"you have heard the accusations made against you?"
"I have, my lord," Sturm answered. His deep voice echoed eerily in the hall.
Suddenly a log in the huge fireplace behind Gunthar split, sending a flare of
heat and a shower of sparks up the chimney. Gunthar paused while the servants
hustled in efficiently to add more wood. When the servants were gone, he
continued the ritual questioning.

"Do you, Sturm Brightblade, understand the charges made against you, and do
you further understand that these are grievous charges and could cause this
Council to find you unfit for the knighthood?"

"I do." Sturm started to reply. His voice brake. Coughing, he repeated more
firmly, "I do, my lord."

Gunthar smoothed his moustaches, trying to think how to lead into thus,
knowing that anything the young man said against Derek was going to reflect
badly upon Sturm himself.

"How old are you, Brightblade?" Gunthar asked.

Sturm blinked at this unexpected question.

"Over thirty I believe?" Gunthar continued, musing.

"Yes, my lord," Sturm answered.

"And. from what Derek tells us about your exploits in Ice Wall Castle, a
skilled warrior-"

"I never denied that, my lord," Derek said, rising to his feet once again. His
voice was tinged with impatience.

"Yet you accuse him of cowardice," Gunthar snapped. "If my memory serves me
correctly, you stated that when the foe attacked, he refused to obey your
order to fight."

Derek's face was flushed. "May I remind your lordship that I am not on trial-"

"You charge Brightblade with cowardice on the face of the enemy," Gunthar
interrupted. "It has been many years since the elves were our enemies."

Derek hesitated. The other knights appeared uncomfortable. The elves were
members of the Council of Whitestone, but then were not allowed a vote.
Because of the discovery of the dragon orb, the elves would be attending the
upcoming Council, and it would never do to have word get back to them that the
knights considered them enemies.

"Perhaps 'enemy' is too strong a word, my lord." Derek recovered smoothly. "If
I am at fault, it is simply that I am being forced to go by what is written in
the Measure. At the time I speak of, the elves-though not our enemies in point
of fact-were doing everything in their power to prevent us from bringing the
dragon orb to Sancrist. Since this was my mission-and the elves opposed it-I
therefore am forced to define them as 'enemies'-according to the Measure."

Slick bastard, Gunthar thought grudgingly.

With a bow to apologize for speaking out of turn, Derek sat down again. Many
of the older knights nodded in approval.

"It also says in the Measure," Sturm said slowly, "that we are not to take
life needlessly, that we fight only in defense-either our own or the defense
of others. The elves did not threaten our lives. At no time were we in actual
physical danger."

"They were shooting arrows at you, man!" Lord Alfred struck the table with his
gloved hand.

"True, my lord," Sturm replied, "but all know the elves are expert marksmen.
If they had wanted to kill us, they would not have been hitting trees!"

"What do you believe would have happened if you had attacked the elves?"
Gunthar questioned.

"The results would have been tragic in my view, my lord." Sturm said, his
voice soft and low. "For the first time in generations, elves and humans would
be killing each other. I think the Dragon Highlords would have laughed."

Several of the young knights applauded.

Lord Alfred glared at them, angry at this serious breach oi the Measure's
rules of conduct. "Lard Gunthar, may I remind you that Lord Derek Crownguard
is not on trial here. He has proven his valor time and again upon the field of
battle. I think we may safely take his word for what is an enemy action and ,
what isn't. Sturm Brightblade, do you say that the charges made against you by
Lord Derek Crownguard are false?"

"My lord," Sturm began, licking his lips which were cracked; and dry, "I do
not say the knight has lied. I say however that he has misrepresented me."

"To what purpose?" Lord Michael asked.

Sturm hesitated. "I would prefer not to answer that, my lord." he said so
quietly that many knights in the back row could not hear and called for
Gunthar to repeat the question. He did so and received the same reply-this
time louder.

"On what grounds do you refuse to answer that question, Brightblade?" Lord
Gunthar asked sternly.

"Because-according to the Measure-it impinges on the honor of the Knighthood,"
Sturm replied.

Lord Gunthar's face was grave. "That is a serious charge. Making it, you
realize you have no one to stand with you in evidence?"

"I do, my lord." Sturm answered, "and that is why I prefer not to respond."

"If I command you to speak?"

"That, of course, would be different."

"Then speak, Sturm Brightblade. This is an unusual situation, and I do not see
how we can make a fair judgment without hearing everything. Why do you believe
Lord Derek Crownguard misrepresents you?"

Sturm's face flushed. Clasping and unclasping has hands, he raised his eyes
and looked directly at the three knights who sat in judgment on him. His case
was lost, he knew that. He would never be a knight, never attain whole had
been dearer to him than life itself. To have lost it through fault of his own
would have been bitter enough, but to lose it like this was a festering wound.
And so he spoke the words that he knew would make Derek his hitter enemy for
the rest of his days.

"I believe Lord Derek Crownguard misrepresents me in an effort to Further his
own ambition, my lord."

Tumult broke out. Derek was on his   feet. His friends restrained him forcibly,
or he would have attacked Sturm in   the Council Hall. Gunthar hanged the sword
hilt for artier and eventually the   assembly quieted down, but :not before
Derek had challenged Sturm to test   his honor in the field..

Gunthar stared at the knight coldly.

"You know, Lord Derek, that in this-a declared time of war-the contests of
honor are forbidden. Come to order or I'll have you expelled from this
assembly."

Breathing heavily, his face splotched with red, Derek relapsed back into his
seat.

Gunthar gave the Assembly a few more moments to settle down, then resumed.
"Have you anything more to say in your defense, Sturm Brightblade?"

"No, my lord," Sturm said.

"Then you may withdraw while this matter is considered."

Sturm rose and bowed to the lords. Turning, he bowed to the Assembly. Then he
left the room, escorted by two knights who led him to an antechamber. Here,
the two knights, not unkindly, left Sturm to himself. They stood near the
closed door, talking softly of matters unrelated to the trial.

Sturm sat on a bench at the far end of the chamber. He appeared composed and
calm, but it was all an act. He was determined not to let these knights see
the tumult in his soul. It was hopeless, he knew. Gunthar's grieved expression
told him that much. But what would the judgment be? Exile, being stripped of
lands and wealth? Sturm smiled bitterly. He had nothing they could take from
him. He had lived outside of Solamnia so long, exile would be meaningless.
Death? He would almost welcome that. Anything was better than this hopeless
existence, this dull throbbing pain.

Hours passed. The murmur of three voices rose .and fell from within the
corridors, around the hall, sometimes angrily. Most of the other knights had
gone out, since only the three as Heads of the Council could pass judgment.
The other knights were split into differing factions.

The young knights spoke openly of Sturm's noble bearing, his acts of courage,
which even Derek could not suppress. Sturm was right in not fighting the
elves. The knights of Solamnia needed all the friends they could get these
days. Why attack needlessly, and so forth. The older Knights had only one
answer-the Measure. Derek had given Sturm an order. He had refused to obey.
The Measure said this was inexcusable.

Arguments raged most of the afternoon.

Then, near evening, a small silver bell rang.

"Brightblade." said one of the knights.

Sturm raised his head. "Is it time?"
The knight nodded.

Sturm bowed his head for a moment asking Paladine for courage. Then the rose
to his feet. He and his guards waited for the other knights to reenter and be
seated. He knew that they were learning the verdict as soon as they entered.

Finally, the two knights detailed as escort opened the door and motioned for
Sturm to enter. He walked into the Hall, the knights following behind. Sturm's
gaze went at once to the table before Lord Gunthar.

The sword of his father-a sword that legend said was passed down from Berthel
Brightblade himself; a sword that would break only if its master broke-lay an
the table. Sturm's eyes went to the sword. His head dropped to hide the
burning tears in his eyes.

Wreathed around the blade was the ancient symbol of guilt-black roses.

"Bring the man, Sturm Brightblade, forward," called Lord Gunthar.

The man, Sturm Brightblade, not the knight! thought Sturm in despair. Then he
remembered Derek. His head came up swiftly, proudly, as he blinked away his
tears. Just as he would have hidden his pain from his enemy an the field of
battle, so he was determined to hide it now from Derek. Throwing back his head
defiantly; his eyes an Lord Gunthar and on no one else, the disgraced squire
walked forward to stand before the three officers of the Order to await his
fate.

"Sturm Brightblade, we have found you guilty. We are prepared to render
judgment. Are you prepared to receive it?"

"Yes, my lord." Sturm said tightly.
Gunthar tugged his moustaches a sign that the men who had served with him
recognized. Lord Gunthar always tugged his mustaches just before riding into
battle.

"Sturm Brightblade, it is our judgement that you henceforth cease wearing any
of the trappings or accoutrements of a Knight of Solamnia-"

"Yes, my lord." Sturm said softly, swallowing.

"And; henceforth, you will not draw pay from the coffers of the Knights, nor
obtain any property or &It from them... ."

The knights in the hall shifted restlessly. This was ridiculous! No one had
drawn pay in the service of the Order since the Cataclysm. Something was up.
They smelled thunder before the storm.

"Finally-" Lord Gunthar paused. He leaned forward,. his hands toying with the
black roses that graced the antique sword. His shrewd eyes swept the Assembly,
gathering up his audience, allowing the tension to build. By the time he
spoke, even the fire behind him had ceased to crackle.

"Sturm Brightblade. Assembled Knights. Never before has a case such as this
come before the Council. And that, perhaps, is not as add as it may seem, for
these are dark and unusual days. We have a young squire-and I remind you that
Sturm Brightblade is young by all standards of the Order-a young squire noted
for his skill and valor in battle. Even his accuser admits that. A young
squire charged with disobeying orders and cowardice in the face of the enemy.
The young squire does not deny this charge, but states that he has been
misrepresented.
"Now, by the Measure, we are bound to accept the word of a tried and tested
knight such as Derek Crownguard over the ward of a man who has not yet won his
shield. But the Measure also states that this man shall be able to call
witnesses in his own behalf. Due to the unusual circumstances occasioned by
these dark times, Sturm Brightblade is not able to call witnesses. Nor, for
that matter, was Derek Crownguard able to produce witnesses to support his own
cause. Therefore, we have agreed on the following, slightly irregular,
procedure."

Sturm stood before Gunthar, confused and troubled. What was happening? He
glanced at the other two knights. Lord Alfred was not bothering to conceal his
anger. It was obvious, therefore, that this "agreement" of Gunther's had been
hard won.. '

"It is the judgment of this Council." Lord Gunthar continued, "that the young
man, Sturm Brightblade, be accepted into the lowest order of the knights.-'the
Order of the Crown' -on my Honour. . ."

There was a universal gasp of astonishment.

"And that, furthermore, he be placed as third in command of the army that is
due to set sail shortly for Palanthas. As prescribed by the Measure, the High
Command must have a representative from each of the Orders. Therefore, Derek
Crownguard will be High Commander, representing the Order of the Rose. Lord
Alfred MarKenin will represent the Order oc the Sword, and Sturm Brightblade
will act-on my honor-a commander for the Order of the Crown."

Amid the stunned silence, Sturm felt tears course down his cheeks, but now he
need hide them no longer. Behind him, he heard the sound of someone rising, of
a sword rattling in anger. Derek stalked furiously out of the Hall, the other
knights of his faction following him. There were scattered cheers, too. Sturm
saw through his tears that about half the knights in the room particularly the
younger knights, the knights he would command- were applauding. Sturm felt
swift pain well deep from inside his soul. Though he had won his victory, he
was appalled by what the knighthood had become-divided into factions by
power-hungry men. It was nothing more than a corrupt shell of a once-honored
brotherhood.

"Congratulations, Brightblade," Lord Alfred said stiffly. "I hope you realize
what Lord Gunthar has done for you."

"I do, my lord," Sturm said, bowing, "and I swear by my father's sword"-he
laid his hand upon it-"that I will be worthy of his trust."

"See to it, young man," Lord Alfred replied and left. The younger lord,
Michael, accompanied him without a word to Sturm.

But the other young knights came forward then, offering their enthusiastic
congratulations. They pledged his health in wine and would have stayed for an
all-out chinking bout if Gunthar had not sent them on their way.

When the two of them were alone in the Hall, Lord Gunthar smiled expansively
at Sturm and shook his hand. The young knight returned the handshake warmly,
if not the smile. The pain was too fresh.

Then, slowly and carefully, Sturm took the black roses from his sword. Laying
them an the table, he slid the blade back in the scabbard at his side. He
started to brush the roses aside, but paused, then picked up one and thrust it
into his belt.
"I must thank you, my lord," Sturm began, his woke quivering.

"You have nothing to thank one for, son," Lord Gunthar said. Glancing around
the room, he shivered. "Let's, get out -of this place and go somewhere warm.
Mulled wine?"

The two knights walked damn the stone corridors of Gurnthar's ancient castle;
the sounds of the young knights leaning drifting up from below -horses's
hooves clattering on the cobblestone, voices shouting, some even raising in a
military song. "I must thank you, my lord," Sturm said firmly. "The risk you
take is very great. I hope I will prove worthy-"

"Risk! Nonsense, my boy." Rubbing his hands to restore the circulation,
Gunthar led Sturm into a small room decorated for the approaching Yule
celebration-red winter roses, grown indoors, kingfisher feathers, and tiny,
delicate golden crowns. A fire blazed brightly. At Gunthar's command, servants
brought in two mugs of steaming liquid that gave off a warm, spicy odor.
"'Many were the times your father threw his shield in front of me and stood
aver me, protecting me when I was down."

"And you did the same for him," Sturm said. "You owe me nothing. Pledging your
honor for me means that, if I fail, you will suffer. You will be stripped of
your rank, your title, your lands. Derek would see to that," he added
gloomily.

As Gunthar took a deep drink of his wine, he studied the young man before him.
Sturm merely sipped at his wine out of politeness, holding the mug with a hand
that trembled visibly. Gunthar laid his hand kindly on Sturm's shoulder,
pushing the young man down gently into a chair. .

"Have you failed in the past, Sturm?" Gunthar asked.

Sturm looked up, his brown eyes flashing. "No, my lord." he answered. "I have
not. I swear it!"

"Then I have no fear for the future," Lord Gunthar said, smiling. He raised
his mug. '"I pledge your good fortune in battle, Sturm Brightblade."

Sturm shut his eyes. The strain had been too much. Dropping his head an his
arm, he wept-his body shaking with painful sobs. Gunthar gripped his shoulder.

"I understand . . ." he said, his eyes looking back to a time. Solamnia when
this young man's father had broken down and cried that same way-the night Lord
Brightblade had sent his young wife and infant son an a journey into exile-a
journey. from, which he would nevter see they return.

Exhausted, Sturm finally fell asleep, his head lying on the table. Gunthar sat
with him, sipping the hot wine, lost in in cries off the past, until he, too,
drifted into slumber.

The few days left before the army sailed to Palanthas passed swiftly for
Sturm. He had to find armor-used; he couldn't afford new. He packed his
father's carefully, intending to carry it since he had been forbidden to wear
it. Then there were meetings to attend, battle dispositions to study,
information on the enemy to assimilate.

The battle for Palanthas would be a bitter one, determining control of the
entire northern part of Solamnia. The leaders were agreed upon their strategy.
They would fortify the city walls with the city's army. The knights themselves
would occupy the High Clerist's Tower that stood blocking the pass through the
Vingaard Mountains. But that was all they agreed upon. Meetings between the
three leaders were tense, the air chill.

Finally the day came for the ships to sail. The knights gathered on board.
Their families stood quietly on the shore. Though faces were pale, there were
few tears, the women standing as tight-lipped and stern as their men. Some
wives wore swords buckled around their own waists. All knew that, if the
battle in the north was lost, the enemy would come across the sea.

Gunthar stood upon the pier, dressed in his bright armor, talking with the
knights, bidding farewell to his sons. He and Derek exchanged a few ritual
words as prescribed by the Measure. He and Lord Alfred embraced perfunctorily.
At last, Gunthar sought out Sturm. The young knight, clad in plain, shabby
armor, stood apart from the crowd.

"Brightblade." Gunthar said in a low voice as he came near him, "I have been
meaning to ask this but never found a moment in these last few days. You
mentioned that these friends of yours would be coming to Sancrist. Are there
any who could serve as witnesses before the Council?"

Sturm paused. For a wild moment the only person he could think of was Tanis.
His thoughts had been with his friend during these last trying days. He'd even
had a surge of hope that Tanis might arrive in Sancrist. But the hope had
died. Wherever Tanis was, he had his own problems, he faced his own dangers.
There was another person, too, whom he had hoped against hope he might see.
Without conscious thought, Sturm Placed his hand over the Starjewel that hung
around his neck against his breast. He could almost feel its warmth, and he
knew-without knowing how-that though far away, Alhana was with him. Then
"Laurana!" he said.

"A woman?" Gunthar frowned.

"Yes, but daughter of the Speaker of the Suns, a member of the royal household
of the Qualinesti. And there is her brother, Gilthanas. Both would testify for
me."

"The royal household . . ." Gunthar mused. His face brightened. "That would be
perfect, especially since we have received word that the Speaker himself will
attend the High Council to discuss the dragon orb. If that happens, my boy,
somehow I'll get word to you, and you can put that armor back on! You'll be
vindicated! Free to wear it without shame!"

"And you will be free of your pledge," Sturm said, shaking hands with the
knight gratefully.

"Bah! Don't give that a thought." Gunthar laid his hand on Sturm's head, as he
had laid his hand on the heads of his own sons. Sturm knelt before him
reverently. "Receive my blessing, Sturm Brightblade, a father's blessing I
give in the absence of your own father. Do your duty, young man, and remain
your father's son. May Lord Huma's spirit be with you."

"Thank you, my lord." Sturm said, rising to his feet. "Farewell"

"Farewell, Sturm," Gunthar said. Embracing the young knight swiftly, he turned
and walked away.

The knights boarded the ships. It was dawn, but no sun shone in the winter
sky. Gray clouds hung over a lead-gray sea. There were no cheers, the only
sounds were the shouted commands of the captain and the responses of his crew,
the creaking of the winches, and the flapping of the sails in the wind.

Slowly the white-winged ships weighed anchor and sails north. Soon the last
sail was out of sight, but still no one left the pier, not even when a sudden
rain squall struck, pelting them with sleet and icy drops, drawing a fine gray
curtain across the chill waters.

3
The dragon orb. Caramon's pledge.

Raistlin stood in the small doorway of the wagon, his golden eyes peering into
the sunlit woods. All was quiet. It was past Yuletide. The countryside was
held fast in the grip of winter. Nothing stirred in the snow-blanketed land.
His companions were gone, busy about various tasks. Raistlin nodded grimly.
Good. Turning, he went back inside the wagon and shut the wooden doors firmly.

The companions had been camped here for several days, on the outskirts of
Kendermore. Their journey was nearing an end. It had been unbelievably
successful. Tonight they would leave, traveling to Flotsam under the cover of
darkness. They had money enough to hire a ship, plus some left over for
supplies and payment for a week's lodging in Flotsam. This afternoon had been
their final performance.

The young mage made his way through the clutter to the back of the wagon. His
gaze lingered on the shimmering red robe that hung on a nail. Tika had started
to pack it away, but Raistlin had snarled at her viciously. Shrugging, she let
it remain, going outside to walk in the woods, knowing Caramon-as usual-would
find her.

Raistlin's thin hand reached out to touch the robe, the slender fingers
stroking the shining, sequined fabric wistfully, regretting that this period
in his life was over.

"I have been happy" he murmured to himself. "Strange. There have not been many
times in my life I could make that claim. Certainly not when I was young, nor
in these past few years, after they tortured my body and cursed me with these
eyes. But then I never expected happiness. How paltry it is, compared to my
magic! Still . . . still, these last few weeks have been weeks of peace. Weeks
of happiness. I don't suppose any will come again. Not after what I must do-"

Raistlin held the robe a moment longer, then, shrugging, he tossed it in a
corner and continued on to the back of the wagon which he had curtained off
for his own private use. On inside, he pulled the curtains securely together.

Excellent. He would have privacy for several hours, until nightfall, in fact.
Tanis and Riverwind had gone hunting. Caramon had, too, supposedly, though
everyone knew this was just an excuse for him to find time alone with Tika.
Goldmoon was preparing food for their journey. No one would bother him. The
mage nodded to himself in satisfaction.

Sitting down at the small drop-leaf table Caramon had constructed for him,
Raistlin carefully withdrew from the innermost pocket of his robes an
ordinary-looking sack, the sack that contained the dragon orb. His skeletal
fingers trembled as he tugged on the drawstring. The bag opened. Reach' in,
Raistlin grasped the dragon orb and brought it forth, held it easily in his
palm, inspecting it closely to see if there had been any change.

No. A faint green color still swirled within. It still felt as cold to the
touch as if he held a hailstone. Smiling, Raistlin clasped the orb tightly in
one hand while he fumbled through the props beneath the table. He finally
found what he sought-a crudely carved, three-legged wooden stand. Lifting it
up, Raistlin set it on the table. It wasn't much to look at-Flint would have
scoffed. Raistlin had neither the love nor the skill needed to work wood. He
had carved it laboriously, in secret, shut up
inside the jouncing wagon during the long days on the road. No, it was not
much to look at, but he didn't care. It would suit his purpose.

Placing the stand upon the table, he set the dragon orb on it. The
marble-sized orb looked ludicrous, but Raistlin sat back, waiting patiently.
As he had expected, soon the orb began to grow. Or did it? Perhaps he was
shrinking. Raistlin couldn't tell. He knew only that suddenly the orb was the
right size. If anything was different, it was he that was too small, too
insignificant to even be in the same room with the orb.

The mage shook his head. He must stay in control, he knew, and he was
immediately aware of the subtle tricks the orb was playing to undermine the
control. Soon these tricks would not be subtle. Raistlin felt his throat
tighten. He coughed, cursing his weak lungs. Drawing a shuddering breath, he
forced himself to breathe deeply and easily.

Relax, he thought. I must relax. I do not fear. I am strong. Look what I have
done! Silently he called upon the orb: Look at the power I have attained!
Witness what I did in Darken Wood. Witness what I did in Silvanesti. I am
strong. I do not fear.

The orb's colors swirled softly. It did not answer.

The mage closed his eyes for a moment, blotting the orb
from sight. Regaining control, he opened them again, regarding the orb with a
sigh. The moment approached.

The dragon orb was now back to its original size. He could almost see Lorac's
wizened hands grasping it. The young mage shuddered involuntarily. No! Stop
it! he told himself firmly, and immediately banished the vision from his mind.

Once more he relaxed, breathing regularly, his hourglass eyes focused on the
orb. Then-slowly-he stretched forth his slender, metallic-colored fingers.
After a moment's final hesitation, Raistlin placed his hands upon the cold
crystal of the dragon orb and spoke the ancient words.

"Ast bilak moiparalan; Suh akvlar tantangusar."

How did he know what to say? How did he know what ancient words would cause
the orb to understand him, to be aware of his presence? Raistlin did not know.
He knew only that somehow, somewhere-inside of him, he did know the words! The
voice that had spoken to him in Silvanesti? Perhaps. It didn't matter.

Again he said the words aloud.
"Ast bilak rnoiparalan: Sub akvlar tantangusar.!"

Slowly the drifting green color was submerged in a myriad swirling, gliding
colors that made him dizzy to watch. The crystal was so cold beneath his palms
that it was painful to touch. Raistlin had a terrifying vision of pulling away
his hands and leaving the flesh behind, frozen to the orb. Gritting his teeth,
he ignored the pain and whispered the words again.

The colors ceased to swirl. A light glowed in the center, a light neither
white nor black, all colors, yet none. Raistlin swallowed, fighting the
choking phlegm that rose in his throat.
Out of the light came two hands! He had a desperate urge to withdraw his own,
but before he could move, flue two hands grasped his in a grip both strong and
firm. The orb vanished! The room vanished! Raistlin saw nothing around trim No
light. No darkness. Nothing? Nothing. . . but two hands, holding his. Out of
sheer terror, Raistlin concentrated on those hands.

 Human? Elven? Old? Young? He could not tell. The fingers, were long and
slender, but their grip was the grip of death. Let go and he would fall into
the void to drift until merciful darkness consumed him. Even as he clung to
those hands with strength lent him by fear, Raistlin realized the hands were
slowly drawing him nearer, drawing him into . . . into....

Raistlin came to himself suddenly, as if someone had dashed cold water in his
face. No! he told the mind that he sensed controlled the hands. I will not go!
Though he feared losing that saving grip, he feared even more being dragged
where he did not want to go. He would not let loose. I will maintain control
he told the mind of the hands savagely. Tightening, has own grip, the mage
summoned alI of his strength, all of his will, and pulled flue hands toward
him!

The hands stopped. For a moment, the two wills vied together, locked in a
life-or-death contest, Raistlin felt the strength ebb from his body, his hands
weakened, the palms began to sweat. He felt the hands of the orb begin to pull
him again; ever so slightly. In agony, Raistlin summoned every drop of blood,
focused every nerve, sacrificed every muscle in his frail body to regaining
control.

Slowly . . . slowly . . , just when he thought his pounding heart would burst
from his chest or his brain explode in fire Raistlin felt the hands cease
their tug. They still maintained their firm grip on him-as he maintained his
firm grip on them. But the two were no longer in contest. His hands and the
hands of the dragon orb remained locked together, each conceding respect,
neither seeking dominance.

The ecstasy of the victory; the ecstasy of the magic flowed through Raistlin
and burst forth, wrapping him in a warm, golden light. His body relaxed.
Trembling, he felt the hands hold him gently, support him, lend him strength.

'What are you' he questioned silently. 'Are you good? Evil?'

'I am neither. I am nothing. I am everything. The essence of dragons captured
long ago is what I am.'

'How do you work?' Raistlin asked. 'How do you control the dragons?'

'At your command, I will call them to me. They cannot resist my call. They
will obey.'

'Will they turn upon their masters? Will they fall under my command?'

'That depends on the strength of the master and the bond between the two. In
some instances, this is so strong that the master can maintain control of the
dragon. But most will do what you ask of them. They cannot help themselves.'

'I must study this', Raistlin murmured, feeling himself growing weaker. 'I do
not understand . . . .'

'Be easy. I will aid you. Now that we have joined, you may seek my help often.
I knows.. of many secrets long forgotten. They can be yours.'
'What secrets' . . . Raistlin felt himself losing consciousness. The strain
had been too much. He struggled to keep his hold on the hands, but he felt his
grip slipping.

The hands held onto him gently, as a mother holds a child. 'Relax: I will not
let you fall. Sleep. You are weary.'

'Tell me! I must know!' Raistlin cried silently.

'This only I will tell you, then you must rest. In the library of Astinus of
Palanthas are books, hundreds of books, taken there by the mages of old in the
days of the Last Battle. To all who look at these books, they seem nothing
more than encyclopedias of magic, dull histories of mages who died in the
taverns of time.'

Raistlin saw darkness creeping toward him. He clutched at the hands. 'What do
the books really contain?' he whispered.

Then he knew, and with the knowledge, darkness crashed over him like the wave
of an ocean.

In a cave near the wagon, hidden by shadows, warmed by the heat of their
passion, Tika and Caramon lay in each other's arms.. Tika's red hair clung
around her face and forehead in tight curls, her eyes were closed, her full
lips parted. Her raft r body clad in her gaily-colored skirt and puffy-sleeved
white blouse pressed against Caramon. Her legs twined around his, her hand
caressed his face, her lips brushed his.

"Please, Caramon," she whispered. "This is torture. We want each other. I'm
not afraid. Please love me!"

Caramon closed his eyes. His face shone with sweat. The pain of his love
seemed impossible to bear. He could end it, end it all in sweet ecstasy. For a
moment he hesitated. Tika's fragrant hair was in his nostrils, her soft lips
on his neck. It would; be so easy. . . so wonderful....

Caramon sighed. Firmly he closed his strong hands around Tika's wrists. Firmly
he drew them away from his face, pushed the girl from him.

"No." he said, his passion choking him. Rolling over, he stood up. "No," he
repeated. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to... , to let things get this far."

"Well, I did!" Tika cried. "I'm not frightened! Not anymore!"

No, he thought, pressing his hands against his pounding head. I feel you
trembling in my hands like a snared rabbit.

Tika began to tie the string on her white blouse. Unable see it through her
tears, she jerked at the drawstring viciously it snapped.

"Now! See there!" She hurled the broken silken twine at the cave. "I've ruined
my blouse! I'll have to mend it. They'll all know what happened, of course! Or
think they know! I-I . . . Oh, what's the use!" Weeping in frustration, Tika
covered her face with her hands, rocking back and forth.

"I don't care what they think!" Caramon said, his voice echoing in the cave.
He did not comfort her. He knew if he touched her again, he would yield to his
passion. "Besides, they don't think anything at all. They are our friends.
They care for us-"
'I know!" Tika cried brokenly. "It's Raistlin, isn't it? He doesn't approve of
me. He hates me!"

"Don't say that, Tika." Caramon's voice was firm. "If he did and if he were
stronger, it wouldn't matter. I wouldn't care what anyone said or thought. The
others want us to be happy. They don't understand why we-we don't
become-er-lovers. Tanis even told me to my face I was a fool-'

"He's right." Tika's voice was muffled by tear-damp hair.

"Maybe. Maybe not."

Something in Caramon's voice made the girl quit crying. She looked up at him
as Caramon turned around to face her.

"You don't know what happened to Raist in the Towers of High Sorcery. None of
you know. None of you ever will. But I know. I was there. I saw. They made me
see!" Caramon shuddered, putting his hands over his face. Tika held very
still. Then, looking at :vet again he drew a deep breath. "They said, 'his
strength, will save the world.' What strength? Inner strength? I'm his outer
strength! I-I don't understand, but Raist said to me in the dream that we were
one whole person, cursed by the gods and put into two bodies. We need each
other right now at least." The big man's face darkened. "Maybe some day that
will change. Maybe some day he'll find the outer strength-"

Caravan fell silent. Tika swallowed and wiped her hand across her face. "T-"
she began, but Caramon cut her off.

"Wait a minute." he said. "Let me finish. I love you, Tika, as truly as any
man loves any woman in this world. I want to make love to you. If we weren't
involved in this stupid war, I'd make you mine today. This minute. But I
can't. Because if I did, it would be a commitment to you that I would dedicate
my life to keeping. You must come first in all my thoughts. You deserve no
less than that. But I can't make that commitment, Tika. My first commitment is
to my brother."

Tika's tears flowed again this time not for herself, but for him. "I must
leave you free to find someone who can-"

"Caramon!" A call split the afternoon's sweet silence. "Caramon, come
quickly!" It was Tanis.

"Raistlin!" said the big man and, without another word, ran out of the cave.

Tika stood a moment, watching after him. Then, sighing, she tried to comb her
damp hair into place.

"What is it?" Caramon burst into the wagon. "Raist?"

Tanis nodded, his face grave. "I found him like this." The half-elf drew back
the curtain to the mages small apartment. Caramon shoved him aside.

Raistlin lay on the floor, his skin white, his breathing shallow. Blood
trickled from his mouth. Kneeling dawn, Caramon lifted him in his arms.
"Raistlin?" he whispered. "What happened?"

"That's what happened," Tanis said grimly, pointing.

Caramon glanced up, his gaze coming to rest on the dragon orb -now grown to
the size Caramon had seen in Silvanesti. It stand an the stand Raistlin had
made for it, its swirling colors shifting endlessly as he watched. Caramon
sucked in his breath in horror. Terrible visions of Lorac flooded his mind.
Lorac insane, dying ...
.
"Twist!" he moaned, clutching his brother tightly.

Raistlin's head moved feebly. His eyelids fluttered, and he opened his mouth.

"What?" Caramon bent low, his brother's breath cold upon his skin. "'What?"

"Mine . . . ."Raistlin whispered. "Spells . . . of the ancients mine . . .
.Mine. . . ."
The mage's head lolled his words died. But his face calm, placid, relaxed, His
breathing drew regular.

Raistlin's thin lips parted in a smile.

4
Yuletide guests.

 It took Lord Gunthar several W.. Name in time for Yule (allowing
days of hard riding to reach for Palanthas). The roads were so foundered, more
than once, and se nearly as -well as his sans, walked. By time he returned to
his castle, therefore, he was exhausted, drenched, and shivering. The sarge of
the horse personally.

"Rub him down well." Gunther said, dismounting stiffly proceeded with his
instructions, the stableman nodding patiently, as if he'd never cared for a
horse before in his life. Gunthar was, in fact, on the point of walking his
horse to the stables himself when his ancient retainer came out in search of
him.

"My lord." Wills drew Gunthar to one side in the entryway. "You have visitors.
They arrived just a few hours ago."

"Who?" Gunthar asked without much interest, visitors being nothing new,
especially during Yule. "Lord Michael? He could not travel with us, but I
asked him to stop on his way home-"

"An old man, my lord," Wills interrupted, "and a kender"

"A kender?" Gunthar repeated in some alarm.

"I'm afraid so, my lord. But don't worry." the retainer added hastily. "I've
locked the silver in a drawer, and your ladywife has taken her jewelry to the
cellar."

"You'd think we were under siege!" Gunthar snorted. He did, however, go
through the courtyard faster than usual.

"You can't be too careful around those critters, my lord," Wills mumbled,
trotting along behind.

"What are these two, then? Beggars? Why did you let   them in?" Gunthar
demanded, beginning to get irritated. All he wanted   was his mulled wine, warm
clothes, and one of his wife's backrubs. "Give them   some food and money, and
send them on their way. Search the kender first, of   course."

"I was going to, my lord." Wills said stubbornly. "But there's something about
them-the old man in particular. He's crackers, if you ask me, but he's a smart
crackers, for all that. Knows something, and it may be more than's good for
him-or us either."

"What do you mean?"

The two had just opened the huge, wooden doors leading into the living
quarters of the castle proper. Gunthar stopped and stared at Wills, knowing
and respecting his retainer's keen power of observation. Will glanced around,
then leaned close.
"The old man said I was to tell you he had urgent news regarding the dragon
orb, my lord!"

"The dragon orb!" Gunthar murmured. The orb was secret,
or he presumed it was. The Knights knew of it, of course. Had Derek told
anyone else? Was this one of has maneuvers?

"You acted wisely, Wills, as always." Gunthar said finally. "Where are they?"

"I put them in your war room, my lord, figuring they could cause little
mischief there."

"I'll change clothes before I catch my death, then see them directly. Have you
made them comfortable?"

"Yes, my lord," Wills replied, hurrying after Gunthar, who was on the move
again. "Hot wine, a bit of bread and meat. Though I mistrust the kender's
lifted the plates by now-"

Gunthar and Wills stood outside the door of the war room for a moment,
eavesdropping on the visitors conversation.

"Put that back!" ordered a stern voice.

"I won't! It's mine! Look, it was in my pouch."

"Bah! I saw you put it there not five minutes ago!"

"Well, you're wrong." protested the other voice in wounded tones. "It's mine!
See, there's my name engraved-"

"To Gunthar, my beloved husband on the Day of Life-Gift," said the first
voice.

There was a moment's silence in the room. Wills turned pale. Then the shrill
voice spoke, more subdued this time.

"I guess it must have fallen into my pack, Fizban. That's it! See, my pack was
sitting under that table. Wasn't that lucky? It would have broken if it had
hit the floor-"

His face grim, Lord Gunthar flung open the door.

"Merry Yuletide to you, sirs," he said. Wills popped in after him, his eyes
darting quickly around the room.

The two strangers whirled around, the old man holding a crockery mug in his
hand. Wills made a leap for the mug, whisking it away. With an indignant
glance at the kender, he placed it upon the mantlepiece, high above the
kender's reach.
"Will there be anything else, my lord?" Wills asked, glaring meaningfully at
tine kender. "Shall I stay and keep an eye on things?"

Gunther opened his mouth to reply, but the old man waved a negligent hand.

"Yes, thank you, my good man. Bring up some more ale. And don't bring any of
that rotgut stuff from the servant's barrels, either!" The old man looked at
Wills steamy. "Tap the barrel that's in the dark corner by the cellar stairs.
You know the one that's all cobwebby."

Wills stared at him, open-mouthed-.

"Well, go on. Don't stand there gaping like a landed fish! A bit dim-witted,
is he?" the old man asked Gunthar.

"N-no," Gunthar stammered. "That's all right, Wills. I-I believe I'll have a
mug, too-of-of the ale from the cask by the-uh-stairs. How did you know?" He
demanded of the old man suspiciously.

"Oh, he's a magic-user," the kender said, shrugging and sitting down without
being invited.

"A magic-user?" The old man peered around. "Where?"

Tas whispered something, poking the old man.

"Really? Me?" he said. "You don't say! How remarkable. Now you know, come to
think of it, I do seem to remember a spell . . . Fireball. How did it go?"

The old mage began to speak the strange words. Alarmed, the kender leaped out
of his seek and grabbed the old man.

"No, Old One!" he said, tugging him back into a chair. "Not now!"

"I suppose not," the old man said wistfully. "Wonderful spell, though-"

"I'm certain." murmured Gunthar, absolutely mystified. Then he shook his head,
regaining his sternness. "Now, explain yourselves. Who are you? Why are you
here? Wills said something about a dragon orb-"

"I m-" The mage stopped, blinking.

"Fizban," said the kender with a sigh. Standing, he extended his small hand
politely to Gunthar. "And I am Tasslehoff Burrfoot." He started to sit dawn.
"Oh." he said, popping up again. "A Merry Yuletide to you, too, sir knight."

"Yes, yes,' Gunthar shook hands, nodding absently. "Now about the dragon orb?"

"Ah, yes, the dragon orb!" The befuddled look left Fizban's face. He stared at
Gunthar with shrewd, cunning eyes. "Where is it? We've come a long way in
search of it."

"I'm afraid I can't tell you," Gunthar said coolly. "If indeed, such a thing
were ever here-"

"Oh, it was here," Fizban replied. "Brought to you by a Knight of the Rose:
one Derek Crownguard. And Sturm Brightblade was with him."

"They're friends of mine," explained Tasslehoff, seeing Gunthar's jaw go
slack. "I helped get the orb, in fact" the kender added modestly. "We took it
away from an evil wizard in a palace made of ice. It's the most wonderful
story-" He sat forward eagerly. "Do you want to hear it?"

"No." said Gunthar, staring at them both in amazement. "And if I believed this
swimming bird tale-wait-" He sank back in his chair. "Sturm did say something
about a kender. Who were the others in your party?"

"Flint the dwarf, Theros the blacksmith, Gilthanas and Laurana-"

"It must be!" Gunthar exclaimed, then he frowned. "But he never mentioned a
magic-user. . . ."

"Oh, that's because I'm dead," Fizban stated, propping his feet up on the
table.

Gunthar's eyes opened wide, but before he could reply, Wills came in. Glaring
at Tasslehoff, the retainer set mugs down on the :able in front of his
lordship.

"Three mugs, here" my lord. And one on the mantle makes four and there better
be four when I come back!"

He walked out, shutting the door with a thud.

"I'II keep an eye on them," Tas promised solemnly. "Do you have a problem with
people stealing mugs." he asked Gunthar.

"I-no.... Dead?" Gunthar felt he was rapidly losing his grip on the situation.

"It's a long story," said Fizban, downing the liquid in one swallow. He wiped
the foam from his lips with the tip of his beard. "Ah, excellent. Now, where
was I?"

"Dead," said Tas helpfully.

"Ah, yes. A long story. Too long for now. Must get the orb. Where is it?"

Gunthar stood up angrily, intending to order this strange old man and this
kender from has chamber and his castle. He was going to tell his guards to
extract them. But, instead, he found himself caught by the old morn's intense
gaze.

The Knights of Solamnia have always feared magic. Though they had not taken
part in the destruction of the Towers of High Sorcery-that would have been
against the Measure-they had not been sorry to see magic-users driven from
Palanthas.

"Why do you want to know?" Gunthar faltered, feeling a cold fear seep into his
blood as he felt the old man's strange power engulf him. Slowly, reluctanty,
Gunthar sat back down.

Fizban's eyes glittered. "I keep my own counsel." he said softly. "Let it be
enough for you to know that I have came seeking the orb, It was made by
magic-users, long ago. I know of it. I know a great deal about it."

Gunthar hesitated, wrestling with himself. After all, there were knights
guarding the orb, and if this old man really did know something about it, what
harm could there be in telling him whew it was? Besides, he really didn't feel
like he had any choice in the matter.
Fizban absently picked up his empty mug again and started to drink. He peered
inside it mournfully as Gunthar answered.

"The dragon orb is with the gnomes."

Fizban dropped his mug with a crash. It broke into a hundred pieces that went
skittering across the wooden floor.

"There, what'd I tell you?" Tas said sadly, eyeing the shattered mug.

The gnomes had lived in Mount Nevermind for as long as they could remember-and
since they were the only apes who cared, they were the only ones who counted.
Certainly they were there when the first knights arrived in Sancrist,
traveling from the newly created kingdom of Solamnia to build their keeps and
fortress along the westernmost park of their border.

Always suspicious of outsiders, the gnomes were alarmed to see a ship arriving
upon their shores, bearing hordes of tall, stern-faced, warlike humans.
Determined to keep what they considered a mountain paradise secret from the
humans, gnomes launched into action. Being the most technological minded of
the races on Krynn (they are noted for ha ' invented the steam-powered engine
and the coiled spring). Gnomes first thought of hiding within their mountain
cave but then had a better idea. Hide the mountain itself!

After several months of unending toil by their greatest mechanical geniuses,
the gnomes were prepared. They were going to make their mountain disappear.

It was at this juncture that one of the members of the Philosopher's Guild
asked if it wasn't likely that the Knight would have already noticed the
mountain, the tallest on island. Might not the sudden disappearance of the
mountain create a certain amount of curiosity in the humans?

This question threw the gnomes into turmoil, days were spent in discussion.
The question soon divided the Philosopher gnomes into two factions: those who
believed that if a tree fell in a forest and no one heard it, it still made a
crashing sound; and those who believed it didn't. Just what this had to do
with the original question was brought up on the seventh day, but was promptly
referred to committee.

Meanwhile, the mechanical engineers-in a huff-decided to set off the device
anyhow.

And thus occurred the day that is still remembered in the annals of Sancrist
(when almost everything else was last during the Cataclysm) as the Day of
Rotten Eggs.

On that day an ancestor of Lord Gunthar woke up wondering sleepily if his son
had fallen through the roof of the hen house again. This had happened only a
few weeks before. The boy had been chasing a rooster.

"You take him dawn to the pond," Gunthar's ancestor told his wife sleepily,
rolling over in bed and drawing the covers up over his head.

"I can't!" she said drowsily. "The chimney's smoking!"

It was then that both fully woke up, realizing that the smoke filling the
house was not coming from the chimney and that the ungodly odor was not coming
from the hen house.

Along with every other resident of the new colony, the two rushed outside,
choking and gagging with the smell that grew worse by the minute. They could
see nothing, however. The land was covered with a thick yellow smoke, redolent
of eggs that had been sitting in the sun for three days.

Within hours, everyone in the colony was deathly sick from the smell. Packing
up blankets and clothes, they headed for the beaches. Breathing the fresh salt
breezes thankfully, they wandered if they could ever go back to their homes.

While discussing this and watching anxiously to see if the yellow cloud on the
horizon might lift, the colonists were considerably startled to see what
appeared to be an army of short, brown creatures stagger out of the smoke to
fall almost lifeless at their feet.

The kindly people of Solamnia immediately went to the aid of the poor gnomes,
and thus did the two races of people living on Sancrist meet.

The meeting of the gnomes and the knights turned out to be a friendly one. The
Solamnic people had a high regard for four things: individual honor, the Code,
the Measure, and technology. They were vastly impressed with the labor-saving
devices the gnomes had invented at this time, which included the pulley, the
shaft, the screw, and the gear.
It was during this first meeting that Mount Nevermind got its name as well.

The knights soon discovered that, while gnomes appeared to be related to the
dwarves-being short and stocky-all similarity ended there. The gnomes were a
skinny people with brown skin and pale white hair, highly nervous and
hot-tempered. They spoke so rapidly that the knights at first thought they
were speaking a foreign language. Instead, it turned out to be Common spoken
at an accelerated pace. The reason for this became obvious when an elder made
the mistake of asking the gnomes the name of their mountain.
Roughly translated, it went something like this: A Great, Huge, Tall Mound
Made of Several Different Strata of Rock of Which We Have Identified Granite,
Obsidian, Quartz With Traces of Other Rock We Are Still Working On, That Has
Its Own Internal Heating System Which We Are Studying In Order to Copy Someday
That Heats the Rock Up to Temperatures That Convert It Into Both Liquid and
Gaseous States Which Occasionally Come to the Surface and Flow Dawn the Side
of the Great, Huge, Tall Mound ....

"Nevermind,"' the elder said hastily.

"Nevermind". The .gnomes were impressed. To think that these humans could
reduce something so gigantic and marvelous into something so simple was
wonderful beyond belief. And so, the mountain was called Mount Nevermind from
that day forth-to the vast relief of the gnomish Map-Makers Guild.

The knights on Sancrist and the gnomes lived in harmony after that, the
knights bringing the gnomes any questions of a technological nature that
needed solving, the gnomes providing a steady flood of new inventions.

When the dragon orb arrived, the knights needed to know how the thing worked.
They gave it into the keeping of the gnomes, sending along to a young knights
to guard it. The though that the orb might be magic did not occur to them.

xxxxx

No gnome living or dead ever in his life completed a sentence. The only way
you get anywhere is to interrupt them. Don't worry about being rude. They
expect it.

The old mage himself was interrupted by the appearance of a gnome dressed in
long brown robes, who came up to them and bowed respectfully.

Tasslehoff studied the gnome with excited curiosity-the kender had never seen
a gnome before, although old legends concerning the Graygern of Gargath
indicated that the two races were distantly connected. Certainly there was
something kenderish in the young gnome-his slender hands, eager expression,
and sharp, bright eyes intent on observing everything. But here the
resemblance ended. There was nothing of the kender's easy-going manner. The
gnome was nervous, serious, and businesslike.

"Tasslehoff Burrfoot,"said the kender politely, extending his hand. The gnome
took Tas's hand, peered at it intently, then finding nothing of interest-shook
it limply. "And this-" Tas started to introduce Fizban, but stropped when the
gnome reached out and calmly took hold of the kender's hoopak.

"Ah . . ." the gnome said, his eyes shining as he grasped the weapon.
"Sendforamemberofthe WeaponsGuild-"

The guard at the ground-level entrance to the great mountain did not wait for
the gnome to finish. Reaching up, he pulled a lever and a shriek sounded.
Certain that a dragon had landed behind him, Tas whirled around, ready to
defend himself.

"Whistle," said Fizban. "Better get used to it!"

"Whistle?" repeated Tas, intrigued. "I never heard one like that before. Smoke
comes out of it! How does it war-Hey! Comeback! Bring back my hoopak!" he
cried as his staff went speeding down the corridor, carried by three eager
gnomes.

"Examinationroom,"said the gnome, "uponSkimbosh-"

"What?"

"Examination Room." Fizban translated. "I missed the rest. You really must
speak slower," He said, shaking his staff at the gnome.

The gnome nodded, but his bright eyes were fixed an Fizban's staff. Then,
seeing it was just plain, slightly battered wood, the gnome returned his
attention to the mage and kender.

"Outsiders," he said. "I'Iltryand'member . . . I will try and remember, so do
not worry because"-he now spoke slowly and distinctly-"your weapon will not be
harmed since we are merely going to render a drawing-"

"Really." interrupted Tas, rather flattered. "I could give you a demonstration
of how it works, if you like."

The gnome's eyes brightened. "Thatwou;vdbeznuch-"

"And now." interrupted the kender again, feeling pleased that he was learning
to communicate, "what is your name?"

Fizban made a quick gesture, but too late.

"Gnoshoshallamarianininillisyylphanitdisdisslishxdie-" He paused to draw a
breath.

"Is that your name?" Tas asked, astounded.
The gnome let his breath out. "Yes." he snapped, a bit disconcerted. "It's my
first name, and now if you'll let me proceed-"

"Wait!" cried Fizban. "What do your friends call you?"

The gnome sucked in a breath again. "Gnoshoshallamarioninillis-"

"What do the knights call you?"

"Oh"-the gnome seemed downcast-"Gnash, if you-"

"Thank you," snapped Fizban. "Now, Gnash, we're in rather a hurry. War going
on and all that. As Lord Gunthar staked in his communique, we must see this
dragon orb."

Gnosh's small, dark eyes glittered. His hands twisted nervously. "Of course,
you may see the dragon orb since Lord Gunthar has requested it, but-if I might
ask-what is your interest in the orb besides normal curi-?"

"I am a magic-user-" Fizban began.

"Magicuser!" the gnome stated, forgetting, in his excitement, to speak slowly.
"Comethiswayimmediatelytothe Examination room
sincethedragonorbwasmadebymagicuser"

Both Tas and Fizban blinked uncomprehendingly,

"Oh,., just come-" the gnome said impatiently.

Before they quite knew what was happening; the gnome talking-hustled them
through the mountain's entrance, setting off an inordinate number of bells and
whistles.

"Examination Room?" Tas said in an undertone to Fizban as they hurried after
Gnash. "What does that mean? They wouldn't have hurt it, would they?"

"I don't think so" Fizban muttered, his bushy white eyebrows coming together
in an ominous V -shape over his nose. "Gunthar sent knights to guard it,
remember."

"Then what are you worried about?" Tas asked.

"The dragon orbs are strange things. Very powerful. My fear," said Fizban more
to himself than to Tas, "is that they may try to use it!"

"But the book I read in Tarsis said the orb could control dragons!" Tas
whispered. "Isn't that good? I mean, the orbs aren't evil, are they?"

"I don't suppose," Fizban asked in a hopeless tone, "that the Examination Room
would be on the ground level?"

Gnosh shook his head. "Examination Room on level fifteen-"

The old mage heaved a heart-rending sigh.
Suddenly there was a horrible grinding sound that set Tas's teeth on edge.
"Ah, they're ready for us. Come along-" Gnosh said.
Tas leaped after him gleefully as they approached a giant catapult. A gnome
gestured at them irritably, painting to a long line of gnomes waiting their
turn. Tas jumped into the seat of the huge sling catapult, staring eagerly up
into the shaft, Above him, he could see gnomes peering down at him from
various balconies, all of them surrounded by great machines, whistles, rapes,
and huge, shapeless things hanging from the sides of the wall like bats. Gnosh
stood beside him, scolding.
"Elders first, young man, so get outoftherethis instantandlet"-he dragged
Tasslehoff out of the seat with remarkable strength="the magicusergofirst="
'Uh that's quite all right." Fizban protested, stumbling backwards into a pile
of rape. "I-I seem to recall a spell of mine that will take me right to the
tap. Levitate. How did that g-go? v Just give me a moment."
"You were the one in a hung-" Gnosh said severely, glaring at Fizban. The
gnomes standing in line began to shoat rudely, pushing and shoving and asking.
"Eh, very well," the old mage snarled, and file climbed into'; the seat, with
Gnosh's help. The gnome operating the lever that' launched the catapult yelled
something at Gnosh which sounded like "whalevel?"
Gnosh painted up, yelling, back. "SiFimbos5~'
The chief walked over to stand in front of the first o a series; of five
levers. An inordinate number of ropes stretched upward info infinity. Fizban
sat miserably in the seat of the catapult stir trying to recall his Spell.
"Now." yelled Gnosh, drawing Tas closer so he could have the advantage of an
excellent. view, "in just a moment, the chief will give the signal, there it
is-"
The chief pulled on one of the ropes.
"What does that do?" Tas interrupted.
"The rope rings a bell on Skimbosh-er-level fifteen, telling them to expect an
arrival-"
"What if the bell doesn't ring?" Fizban demanded loudly.
"Then a second bell rings telling them that the first bell didn't-"
"What happens down here if the bell didn't ring?"
"Nothing. It's Skimbosh's problem not yours-"
"It's my problem if they don't know I'm coming?" Fizban shouted. "Or do I just
drop in and surprise them!,
'Ah," Gnosh said proudly, "yousee-'
"I'm getting out . . ." stated Fizban.
"No,wait," Gnash said, talking faster and faster in his anguish,
"they'reready"
"Who's ready?" Fizban demanded irritably.
"Skimbosh! Withthe net tacakchyou,yousee-"
"Net"." Fizban turned pale. "That does it!" He flung a foot over the edge.
But before he could move, the chief reached out and pulled
on the first lever. The grinding sound started again as the catapult began
pivoting in its mooring. The sudden motion threw Fizban back, knocking his hat
over his eyes.
"What's happening?" Tas shouted
"They re getting him in position," Gnosh yelled. 'The longitude and latitude
have been precalculated and the catapult set to come into the correct location
to send the passenger-'
"What about the net?" Tas yelled.
"The magician flies up to Skimbash-oh. quite safely, I assure you-we've done
studies, in fact, proving gnat flying is safer than walking-and just when
he's. at the height of his trajectory, beginning to drop a bit, Skimbosh
throws a net out underneath him, catching him post like this"-Gnosh
demonstrated with his hand, making a snapping motion like catching a fly-`and
hauls him-"
"What incredible timing that must take!
"The timing is ingenious since it all depends on a certain hack We've
developed, though"-Gnosh pursed his lips, his eyebrows drawing
together-"something is throwing the timing off a bit, but there's a
committee..
The gnome pulled down on the lever and Fizban-with a shriek-went sailing
through the air.
"Oh dear," said Gnosh, staring, "it appears-"
"What? What?" Tas yelled, trying to see.
"The net's opened too soon again"-Gnosh shook his head"and that's the second
time today that's happened on Skimbosh alone and
thisdefinitelywillbebroughtupatthe nextmeetingoftheNet Guild-"
Tas stared, open-mouthed, at the sight of Fizban whizzing through the air,
propelled from below by the tremendous force of the catapult, and suddenly the
kender saw what Gnosh was talking about. The net on level fifteen-instead of
opening after the mage had flown past and then catching him as he started to
fall-opened before the mage reached level fifteen. Fizban hit the net and was
flattened like a squashed spider. For a moment he clung there
precariously-arms and legs akimbo-then he fell.
Instantly bells and gongs rang out.
"Don't tell me," Tas guessed miserably. "That's the alarm which means the net
failed."
"Quite, but don't be alarmed (small joke)," Gnosh chuckled, "because the
alarms trip a device to open the net on level thirteen, just in time-oops, a
bit late, well, there's still level twelve-"
"Do something!" Tas shrieked.
 "Don't get so worked up!" Gnosh said angrily. "And I'll finish what I was
about to say about the final emergency backup system and that is-oh, here it
goes-"
Tas watched in amazement as the bottoms dropped out of six huge barrels
hanging from the walls on level three, sending thousands of sponges tumbling
down onto the floor in the center of the chamber.. This was.
done-apparently-in case all they nets on every level failed. Fortunately, the
net on level nine actually worked, spreading out beneath the mage just in
time: Then it folded up around him and whisked him over to the balcony where
the gnomes, hearing the mage cursing and swearing inside, appeared reluctant
to let him out.
"Sonowevergthirg'sfineandit`syourturn," said Gnosh.
"Just one last question!" Tas yelled at Gnosh as he sat down in the seat.
"What happens if the emergency backup system
with the sponges fails?"
"Ingenious-" said Gnosh happily, "because you see if the sponges come down a
little too late; the alarm goes off, releasing a huge barrel of water into the
center, and-since the sponges are there already-its easy to clean up the
mess-'
The chief pulled the lever.
Tas had been expecting all sorts of fascinating things in the Examination
Room, but he found it-to his surprise-nearly empty. It was lighted by a hole
drilled through the face of the mountain which admitted the sunlight. (This
simple but ingenious device had been suggested to the gnomes by a visiting
dwarf who called it a 'window," the gnomes were quite proud of it.) There were
three tables, but little else. On the central table, surrounded by gnomes,
rested the dragon orb and his hoopak.
It was back to its original size, Tas noted with interest. It looked the
same-still a round piece of crystal, with a kind of milky colored mist
swirling around inside. A young Knight of Solamnia with an intensely bored
expression inn his face stood near the orb, guarding it. His bored expression
changed sharply at the approach of strangers.
"Quiteallright," Gnosh told the knight reassuringly, "these are the two Lord
Gunthar sent word about-" Still talking, Gnosh hustled them over to the
central table. The gnome's eyes were bright as he regarded the orb. "A dragon
orb," he murmured happily, "after all these years-"
"What years?" Fizban snapped, stopping at some distance from the table.
"You see," Gnosh explained, "each gnome has a Life Quest assigned to him at
birth, and from then on his only ambition in life is to fulfill that Life
Quest, and it was my Life Guest to study the dragon orb since-"
"But the dragon orbs have been missing for hundreds of years!" Tas said
incredulously. "No one knew about them! Flow could it be your Life Quest'"
"Oh, we knew about them." Gnosh answered, "because it was my grandfather's
Life Quest. and then my f.athez's Life Quest. Both of them died without ever
seeing a dragon orb. I feared I might, too, but now finally, one has appeared.
and I can establish our family's place in the afterlife-"
"You mean you can't get to the-er-afterlife until you complete the Life
Quest?" Tas asked. "But your grandfather and your father-"
"Probably most uncomfortable," Gnosh said, looking sad, "wherever they are- My
goodness!"
A remarkable change had come over the dragon orb. It began to swirl and
shimmer with many different colors-as if in agitation.
Muttering strange words, Fizban walked to the orb and set his hand upon it.
Instantly, it went black. Fizban cast a glance around the room, his expression
so severe and frightening that even Tas fell back before him. The knight
sprang forward.
"Get out!" the mage thundered. "All of you!F
"I was ordered not to leave and I'm not-" The knight reached for his sword,
but Fizban whispered a Few words. The knight slumped to the floor.
The gnomes vanished from the room instantly, leaving only Gnosh; wringing his
hands, leis face twisted in agony.
"Came on, Gnosh"" Tas urged. "I've never seen him like this. We better do as
he says. If we don't, he's liable to turn us into gully dwarves or something
icky like that!"
Whimpering, Gnosh .allowed Tas to lead him out of the ' room. As he stared
back at the dragon orb, the door slammed
shut.
"My Life Quest-" the gnome moaned.
"I'm sure it will be alb right," Tas said, although he wasn't' sure, not in
the least. He hadn't liked the look. on Fizban's face. , In fact, it hadn't
even seemed to be Fizban's face at all-or anyone Tas wanted to know!'
Tas felt chilled and there was a tight knot in the pit of his stomach. The
gnomes muttered among themselves and cast baleful glances at him. Tas
swallowed, trying to get a bitter taste out of his mouth. Then he drew Gnosh
to one side.
"Gnosh, did you discover anything about the orb when yo studied it?" Tas asked
in a low voice.
"Well," Gnosh appeared thoughtful, "I did find out that there's something
inside of it-or seems to be-because I'd start it and stare at it without
seeing anything for the longest time then, right when I was ready to quit, I'd
sere words swim about in the mist"
"Words?" Tas interrupted eagerly. "What did they say?"
Gnosh shook his head. "I don't know." he said solemnly, "because I couldn't
read them; no one could, not even a member of the Foreign Language Guild-"
"Magic, probably," Tas muttered to himself.
"Yes." Gnosh said miserably, "that's what I decided-"
The door blew open, as if something had exploded.
Gnosh whirled around, terrified. Fizban stood in the doorway, holding a small
black bag in one hand, his staff and Tasslehoff's hoopak in the other. Gnosh
sprang past him.
"The orb!" he screeched, so upset he actually completed a sentence. "You've
got it!"
"Yes, Gnosh," said Fizban.
The mage's voice sounded tired, and Tas-looking at him closely-saw that he was
on the verge of exhaustion. His skin
was gray, his eyelids drooped. He leaned heavily on his staff, "Come with me,
my boy," he said to the gnome. "And do not worry. Your Life Quest will be
fulfilled. But now the orb must
be taken before the Council of Whitestone."
"Come with you," Gnosh repeated in astonishment, "to the Council"-he clasped
his hands together in e.xcitement"where perhaps I'll be asked to make a
report, do you chink-"
"I wouldn't doubt it in the least," Fizban ansWered.
"Right away, just give me time to pack, where's my papers-"
Gnosh dashed off. Fizban whipped around to fare the other gnomes who had been
sneaking up behind him reaching out eagerly for his staff. He scowled so
alarmingly that they stumbled backwards and vanished into the Examination
Room.
"What did you find out?" Tas asked, hesitantly approaching Fizban. The old
mage seemed surrounded by darkness. "The
gnomes didn't do anything to it, did threy7"
"No, no." Fizban, sighed. -Fortunately for them. For it is still active and
very powerful. Much will depend on the decisions a few make-perhaps the fate
of the world.."
"What do you mean? Won't the Council make the decisions."'
"You don't understand' my boy" Fizban said gently. "Stag a
moment, I must rest." The mage oat dot~rn; leaning against a
wall. Shaking his head, he continued. "I concentrated my will on the orb, Tas.
Oh, not to control dragons," he added, seeing the kender`s eyes widen. "I
looked into the future."
"What did you see?" Tas asked hesitantly, not certain from the mage's somber
expression that he wanted to know.
"I saw two roads stretching before us. If we take the easiest" it will appear
the best at the beginning, but darkness will fall at the end, never to be
lifted. If we take the other road, it will be hard and difficult to travel. It
could cost the lives of some we love, dear boy. Worse, it might cost others
their very souls. But only through these great sacrifices will we find hope"
Fizban closed his eyes.
"And this involves the orb?" Tas asked, shivering.
"Yes."
'Do you know what must be done to . . . to take the d-dark road?" Tas dreaded
the answer.
"I do," Fizban replied in a law voice. "But the decisions have not been left
in my hands. That will be up to others."
"I see," Tas sighed. "Important people, I suppose. People like kings and
elflords and knights." Then Fizban's words echoed in his mind. The lives of
some we lave . . .
Suddenly a lump formed in Tas's throat, choking him. His head dropped into his
hands.. This adventure was turning out all wrong! Where was Tanis? And dear
old Caramon? .And pretty Tika? He had tried not to think about them,
particularly after that dream.
And Flint-I shouldn't have gone without him, Tas thought miserably. He might
die, he might be dead right now! The lives of some you love.! I never thought
about any of us dying-not really. I always figured that if we were together we
could beat anything! But now, we've gotten scattered somehow. And ':kings are
going all wrong!
Tas felt Fizban s hand stroke his topknot, his one great vaneiky. And for the
first time in his life, the kender felt very lost and= alone and frightened.
The wage's grip tightened around him affectionately. Burying his face in
Fizban's sleeve, Tas began to cry.
Fizban patted him gently. "`yes," the wage repeated, "important people."

300
the Council of "itestone. ?fin important person.
he Council of 4h~'hitestone met upon the twenty-eighth day of December, a day
known as
Famine Day in Solamnia, for it commemorated the suffering of the people during
the first winter following the Cataclysm.
Lord Gunthar thought it fitting to hold the Council meeting on this day, which
was marked by fasting and meditation.
lt had been over a month sine the armies sailed for Palanthas. The news
Gunthar received from that city was snot good. A report had arrived early an
the morning of the twenty eight, in fact, heading it twice over, he sighed
heavily, frowned, and tucked the paper into his belt.
The Council of Whitestone had met once before within the recent past, a
meeting precipitated by the arrival of the refugee elves in Southern Ergoth
and the appearance of the dragonarmies in northern Solamnia. This Council
meeting was several months in the planning, and so, all members-either seated
or advisory-were represented. Seated members, those who could vote, included
the Knights of Solamnia, the gnomes, the hill dwarves, the dark-skinned,
sea-faring people of Northern Ergoth, and a representative of the Solamnic
exiles living on Sancrist., Advisory members were the elves, the mountain
dwarves, and the kender. These members were invited to express their opinions,
but they could not vote.
The first Council meeting, however, had not gone well. Some of the old feuds
and animosities between the races represented burst into flame. Arrnan Kharas,
representative of the mountain dwarves, and Duncan Hammerrock, of the hill
dwarves, had to be physically restrained at one point, or blood from that
ancient feud might have flowed again. Alhana Starbreeze, representative of the
Silvanesti in her Eatheis absence, refused to speak a ward during the entire
session. Alhana had come only because Porthios of the Qualinesti was there.
She feared an .alliance between the Qualinesti and the humans and was
-redetermined to prevent it.
Alhana need not have worried. Such was the distrust between humans and elves,
that they spoke to each other only out of politeness. Not even Lord Gunthar's
impassioned speech., in which the had declared, "Our unity begins peace; our
division ends hope!" made an impression.
Porthios's answer to this had been to blame the dragons' reappearance on the
humans. 'The humans, therefore, could'; extricate themselves from this
disaster. Shortly after Porthiia
made his position clear, Alhana rose haughtily arid left, leaving no cane with
any doubts about the position .of the Silvanesti. .
The mountain dwarf, Adman Kharas, had declared that ' people would be willing
to help, but that until tine Hammer
ICtIaras was found, the mountain dwarves could not be unit ' No one knew at
the time that the companions would
return the Hammer, so Gunthar was forced to discount the ' of the dwarves. The
only person; in fact, who offered help
was Kronin Thistleknott, chief of the kender. Since the last thing any sane
country wanted was the "aid" of an army of kenders, this gesture was received
with polite smiles, while the members exchanged horrified looks behind
Kronin's back.
The first Council disbanded, therefore, without accomplishing much of
anything.
Gunthar had higher hopes for this second Council meeting. The discovery of the
dragon orb, of course, put everything in a much brighter light.
Representatives from both elven factions had arrived. These included the
Speaker of the Suns, who brought with him a human claiming to be a cleric of
Paladine. Gunthar had heard a great deal about Elistan from Sturm, and he
looked forward to meeting him. Just who would represent the Silvanesti,
Gunthar wasn't certain. He assumed it was the lord who had been declared
regent following Alhana Starbreeze's mysterious disappearance.
The elves had arrived on Sancrist two days ago. Their tents stood out in the
fields, gaily colored silk flags fluttering in brilliant contrast to the gray,
stormy sky. They were the only other race to attend. There had not been time
to send a message to the mountain dwarves, and the hill dwarves were reported
to be fighting for their lives against the dragonarmies; no messenger could
reach them.
Gunthar hoped this meeting would unite the humans and the elves in the great
fight to drive the dragonarmies from Ansalon. Hut his hopes were dashed before
the meeting began.
After scanning the report from the armies in Palanthas, Gunthar left his tent,
preparing to make a final tour of the Glade of the Whitestone to see that
everything was in order. Wills, his retainer, came dashing after him.
"My lord," the old man puffed" "return immediately."
'What is it?" Gunthar asked. )gut the old retainer was too much out of breath
to reply.
Sighing, the Solamnic lord went back to his tent where he found Lord Michael,
dressed in full armor, pacing nervously.
"What's the matter?" Gunthar said, his heart sinking as he saw the grave
expression on the young lord's face.
-Michael advanced quickly, seizing Gunthar by the arm. "My lord, we have
received ward that the elves will demand the return of the dragon orb. If we
don't return it, they are prepared to go to war to recover it!"
"What?" Gunthar demanded incredulously. "War! Against us! That's ludicrous!
They can't- Are you certain? How reliable is this information?"
"Very reliable, I'm afraid, Lord Gunthar"
"My lord, I present Elistan, cleric of Paladine," Michael said. "I beg pardon
for not introducing him earlier, but my mind has . been in a turmoil since he
first brought me this news."
"I have heard a great deal about you, sir." Lord Gunthar said, extending his
hand to the man.
The knight's eyes studied Elistan curiously. Gunthar hardly knew what he had
expected to see in a purported cleric of Paladine-perhaps a weak-eyed
aesthetic, pale and lean from study. Gunthar was not prepared for this tall,
well-built man who might have ridden to battle with the best of the knights.
The ancient symbol of Paladine-a platinum medallion engraved with a
dragon-hung about his neck.
Gunthar reviewed all he had heard from Sturm concerning Elistan, including the
cleric's intention to try and convince the elves to unite with the humans.
Elistan smiled wearily, as if ; aware of every thought gassing through
Gunthar's mind. They were the thoughts he answered.
"Yes, I have failed," Elistan admitted. "It was all I could do to ' persuade
them to attend the Council meeting, and they have:,
come here only, I fear, to give you an ultimatum: return the orb.~
to the elves or fight to retain it." ?
Gunthar sank into a chair,, gesturing weakly with his, hand for the others to
be seated. Before him, an a table, were spread maps of the lands of Ansalon,
showing in shades of darkness,: the insidious advance of the dragonarmies.
Gunthar's armies, rested on the maps, then suddenly he swept them to the flood
"We might as well give up right now!" he snarled. ".'Send .~ message to the
Dragon Highlords: 'Don't bather to come an wipe us out. We're managing quite
nicely on our own.'
Angrily, he hurled on the table the message he had received "There". That's
from Palant!nas. The people have insisted knights leave the city. The
Palarrthians are negotiating with t . Dragon B-lighloa~3s, and :he presence of
the knights 'serio compromises their position.' They refuse to give us any ae
And so an army of a thousand I'alanthiarss sits idle!"
"What is Lord Derek doing, my lord?" Michael asked.
"He and the knights and a thousand footmen, refugees from the occupied lands
in Throtyl, are fortifying the High Cierist"s tower, south of Palanthas,"
Gunthar said wearily. "itguards the only pass through the Vingaard Mountains.
We'll protect Palanthas for a time, but if the dragonarmies get through . . ."
He fell silent. "Damn it," he whispered, beating his fist gently upon the
table, "we could hold that pass with two thousand men! The fools! And now
this?" He waved his hand in the direction of the elven tents.
Gunthar sighed, letting his head fall into his hands. "Well, what do you
counsel, cleric?"
Elistan .,as quiet far a moment, before he answered. "It is written in the
Disks of Mishakal that evil, by its very nature, will always turn in upon
itself. Thus it becomes self-defeating." He laid his hand upon Gunthar's
shoulder. "I do not know what may come of this meeting. My gods have kept this
secret from me. It could be they themselves do not know; that the future of
the world stands in balance, and what we decide here will determine it. I do
know this: Do not enter with defeat in your heart, far that will be the first
victory of evil."
So saying, Elistan rose and left the tent quietly.
Gunthar sat in silence after the cleric had gone. It seemed that the whole
world was silent, in fact, he thought. The wind had died during the night. The
storm clouds hung low and heave, muffling sound so that even the clarion
trumpet's call marking day's dawning seemed flat. A rustling broke his
concentration. Michael was slowly gathering up the spilled maps. Gunthar
raised his head, rubbing; his eyes.
"What do you think?" "'Of what? The elves?" "That cleric." Gunthar said,
staring out the tent opening.
"Certainly nor. what I would have expected." Michael answered, his gage
following Gunthar's, "More like the stories
~n^'e've heard of the clerics of old, the ones that guided the KnigAts in the
days before the Cataclysm. He's not much like these charlatans we've got now.
Elistan is a man who would
stand beside you on the field of battle, calling dawn Paladine's blessing with
one hand while wielding his mace with the other. He wears the medallion that
none have seen since the gods
DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES
abandoned us. But is he a true cleric?" Michael shrugged. "It will take a lot
more than a medallion to convince me."
"I agree." Gunthar rose to his feet and began to walk toward the tent flap.
"Well, it is nearly time. Stay here, Michael, in case any mare reports came
in." Starting to leave, he paused at the entrance to the tent. "Haw odd it is,
Michael," he murmured, his eyes following Elistan, now no more than a speck of
white in the distance. "We have always been a people who looked to the gods
for our hope, a people of faith, who distrusted magic. Yet now we look to
magic for that hope, and when a chance comes to renew our faith, we question
it."
Lord Michael made no answer. Gunthar shook his head and, still pandering, made
his way to the Glade of the Whitestone.
As Gunthar said, the Solamnic people had always been f aith-
ffollowers of the gods, Long ago, in the days before the Cataclysm, the Glade
of the Whitestone had been one of the hole centers of worship. The phenomenon
of the white rock had attracted the attention of the curious longer than
anyone remembered. The Kingpriest of lstar himself had blessed the huge white
rock that sat in the middle of a perpetually green glade, declaring it sacred
to the gods and forbidding any mortal; being to touch it.
):ven after the Cataclysm, when belief in the old gads died, the Glade
remained a sacred place. Perhaps that was becausey not even the Cataclysm lead
affected it. Legend held that whew the fiery mountain fell from the sky, the
ground around the' Whitestone cracked and split apart, but the Whitestone~
remained intact.
So awesome was the sight of the huge white rock that,even now none dared
either approach or touch it. What stan>=~ powers it possessed, none could say.
All they knew -was that the air around the Whitestone eras always springlike
and warm No matter how bitter the winter, the grass in Whitestone Gla was
always.green.
Though his heart was, heavy. Gunthar relaxed as he step inside the glade and
breathed the warm, sweet air. Far moment, he felt once again the touch of
Elistan's hand upon shoulder, imparting a feeling of inner peace. ~
Glancing around quickly, he saw all in readiness, Mass wooden chairs with
ornately carved backs had been placed on the green grass. Five for the voting
members of the Council stood to the left side of the Whitestone, three for the
advisory members stood on the right. Polished benches for the witnesses to the
proceedings as demanded by the Measure, sat facing the Whitestone and the
Council members.
Some of the witnesses had already begun arriving, Gunthar noticed. Most of the
elven party traveling with the Speaker and the Silvanesti lord were taking
their seats. The two estranged elven races sat near each other, apart from the
humans who were filing in as well. Everyone sat daiietly, some in remembrance
of Famine Day; others, like the gnomes, who did not celebrate that holiday, in
awe of their surroundings. Seats in the front row were reserved for honored
guests or far those with leave to speak before the Council.
Gunthar saw the Speaker's stern-faced son, Porthios, enter with a retinue of
elven warriors. They took their seats in the front. Gunthar wondered where
Elistan was. He'd intended to ask him to speak. He had been impressed with the
man's words (even if he was a charlatan) and hoped he would repeat them.
As he searched in vain for Elistan, he saw three strange figures enter and
seat themselves in the front row: it was the old mage in his bent and
shapeless hat, his kender friend, and a gnome they had brought back with them
from Mount Nevermind. The three had arrived back from their journey only last
night.,
Gunthar was forced to turn his attention back to the Whikestone. The advisory
Council members were entering. There were only two, Lord Quinath of the
Silvanesti, and the Speaker of the Suns. Gunthar looked at the Speaker
curiously, knowing he was one of the few beings an Krynn to still remember the
horrors of the Cataclysm.
The Speaker was so stooped that he seemed almost crippled. His hair was, gray;
his face haggard. But as he took his seat and turned his gaze to the
witnesses, Gunthar saw the elf's eyes Were bright and arresting. Lord Quinath,
seated next to him, was known to Gunthar, who considered him as arrogant and
proud as Porthios of the Qualinesti, but lacking in the intellgence Porthios
possessed.
As for Porthios, Gunthar thought he could probably comet o like the Speaker's
eldest son quite well. Porthios had every characteristic the knights admired,
with one exception-his quick temper. Gunthar's observations were interrupted,
for now it was time for the voting Council members to enter and Gunthar had to
take his place. First came Mir Kar-thon of Northern Ergoth, a
dark-complexioned man with iron-gray hair and the arms of I a giant. Next came
Serdin MarThasal, representing the Exiles i on Sancrist, and finally Lord
Gunthar, Knight of Solamnia. Once seated, Gunthar glanced around a final time.
The huge Whitestone glistenedi behind him, casting its own strange radiance,
for the sun world not shine today. On the other side of the Whitestone sat the
Speaker, next to him Lord Quinath. I Across from them, facing the Council, sat
the witnesses upon their benches. The kender was sitting subdued, swinging his
short legs on his tall bench. The gnome shuffled through what looked like a
ream of paper; Gunthar shuddered, wishing there'd been time to ask for a
condensed report. The old magi- . clan yawned and scratched his head, peering
around vaguely.
AII was ready. At Gunthar's signal, two knights entered, . bearing a golden
stand and a wooden chest. A silence that was almost deathlike descended on the
crowd as they watched the entrance of the dragon orb.
The knights carne to a halt, standing directly in (rant of the Whitestone.
Here, one of the knights placed tl!e golden s card` upon the ground. The other
set down the chest, unlocked it and carefully brought forth the orb that was
back to its origin site, over two feet in diameter.
A murmur went through the crowd. The Speaker of the Su shifted uncomfortably,
scowling. His son, Porthios, turned t_ say something to an elflord near him.
All of the elves., Gunth muted, were armed. Not a good sign, from what little
he kne of elven protocol.
He had no choice but to proceed. Calling the meeting . order, Lard Gunthar Uth
Wistan announced, "Let tine Coon cf V"dhitestane be:gin."
After about two, minutes, it was obvious to Tasslehoff things were in a real
mess.. Before Lord Gunthar had even c eluded his speech of welcome, the
Speaker of the Suns rose-.
"My talk will be brief," the elven leader stated in a voice that matched the
steely gray of the storm clouds above him. "The Silvanesti, the Qualinesti,
and the Kaganesti met in council shortly after the orb was removed from our
camp. It is the first time the members o the three communities have met since
the Kinslayer wars." He paused, laying a heavy emphasis on those last words.
Then he continued.
"We have decided to set aside our own differences in our perfect agreement
that the dragon orb belongs in the hands of the elves, not in the hands of
humans or any other race upon Krynn. Therefore, we come before the Council of
Whitestone and ask that the dragon orb be given over to us forthwith. In
return, we guarantee that we will take it to our lands and keep it safe until
such time-if ever-it be needed."
The Speaker sat down, his dark eyes sweeping aver the crowd, its silence
broken now by a murmur of soft voices, The other Council members, sitting next
to Lord Gunthar, shook their heads, their faces grim. The dark-skinned leader
of the Northern Ergoth people whispered to Lord Gunthar in a harsh voice,
clenching his fist to emphasize his words.
Lord Gunthar, after listening and nodding for several minutes, rose to his
feet to respond. His speech was cool, calm, complimentary to the clues. But it
said-between the linesthat the Knights would see the elves in the Abyss before
they gave them the dragon orb.
The Speaker, understanding perfectly the message of steel couched in the
pretty phrases, rose to reply He spoke only one sentence, but it brought the
crowd of witnesses to their feet.
"Then, Lord Gunthar," the Speaker said, "the elves declare that-from this time
on-we are at war!"
Humans and elves bath headed for the dragon orb that sat upon its golden
stand, its milky white insides swirling gently within the crystal. Gunthar
shouted For order time and again, banging the hilt of his sward upon the
table. The Speaker spoke a ie4v words sharply in elven, staring hard at his
son, Porthios, and finally order was restored.
)3u t the atmosphere snapped I_ke the air before a storm. Gunklrar talked. The
Speaker answered'. The Speaker talked. Gunthar answered. The dark-skinned
mariner lost his temper and made a few cutting remarks about elves. The lord
of the
Silvanesti reduced him to quivering anger with his sarcastic rejoinders.
Several of the knights left, only to return armed to the teeth. They came to
stand near Gunthar, their hands on their weapons. The elves, led by Porthios,
rose to surround their own leaders.

Gnosh, his report held fast in his hand, began to realize he wasn't going to
be asked to give it.

Tasslehoff looked around despairingly for Elistan. He kept hoping desperately
the cleric would come. Elistan could calm these people down. Or maybe Laurana.
Where was she? There'd been no word of his friends, the elves had told the
kender coldly. She and her brother had apparently vanished in the wilderness.
l shouldn't lave left them, Tas thought. l shouldn't be here. Why, why did
this crazy old mage bring me? I'm useless! Maybe Fizban could do something?
Tas looked at the mage hopefully, but Fizban was sound asleep!

"Please, wake up!" Tas begged, shaking him. "Somebody's got to do something!"

At that moment, he heard Lord Gunthar yell, "The dragon orb is not yours by
right! Lady Laurana and the others were bringing it to us when they were
shipwrecked! You tried to keep it on Ergoth by force, and your own daughter-"

"Mention not my daughter!" the Speaker said in a deep, harsh voice. "I do not
have a daughter."

Something broke within Tasslehoff. Confused memories of Laurana fighting
desperately against the evil wizard who guarded the orb, Laurana battling
draconians, Laurana tiring her bow at the white dragon, Laurana ministering to
him sari tenderly when bed been near death. To be cast off by her own people
when she was working so desperately to save them, when she had sacrificed so
much ...

"Stop this!" Tasslehoff heard himself yelling at the top of his voice. "Stop
this right now and listen to me!" Suddenly he saw, to his astonishment, that
everyone have stopped talking and was staring at him.

Now that he had his audience, Tas realized he didn't have any idea what to say
to all of these important people. But knew he had to say something. After all,
he thought, this is my fault-I read about these damn orbs.. Gulping, he slid
off the bench and walked toward the Whitestone and the two host' groups
clustered around it. He thought he saw-out of the corner of his eye-Fizban
grinning from under his hat.

"I-I . . ." The kender stammered, wondering what to say. He was saved by a
sudden inspiration.

"I demand the right to represent my people," Tasslehoff said proudly, "and
take my place on the advisory council."

Flipping his tassle of brown hair over his shoulder, the kender came to stand
right in front of the dragon orb. Looking up, he could see the Whitestone
towering over it and over him. Tas stared at the stone, shivering, then
quickly turned his gaze from the rock to Gunthar and the Speaker of the Suns.

And then Tasslehoff knew what he had to do. He began to shake with fear.
He-Tasslehoff Burrfoot-who'd never been afraid of anything in his life! He'd
faced dragons without trembling, but the knowledge of what he was going to do
now appalled him. His hands felt as if he'd been making snowballs without
gloves on. His tongue seemed to belong in some larger person's mouth. But Tas
was resolute. He just had to keep them talking, keep them from guessing what
he planned.

"You've never taken us kenders very seriously; you know," Tas began, his voice
sounding too loud and shrill in his own ears, "and I can't say I blame you
much. We don't have a strong sense of responsibility, I guess, and we are
probably too curious for own good-but, I ask you, how are you going to find
out anything if you're not curious?"

Tas could see the Speaker's face turn to steel, even Lord Gunthar was
scowling. The kender edged nearer the dragon orb.

"We cause lots of trouble, I suppose, without meaning to, and occasionally
some of us do happen to acquire certain things which aren't ours. But one
thing the kender know is-"

Tasslehoff broke into a run. Quick and lithe as a mouse, he sipped easily
through the hands that tried to catch him, reaching the dragon orb within a
matter of seconds. Faces blurred around him, mouths opened, shrieking and
yelling at him. But they were too late.

In one swift smooth movement, Tasslehoff hurled the dragon orb at the huge,
gleaming Whitestone.

The round, gleaming crystal-its insides swirling in agitation-hung suspended
in the air for long, long seconds. Tas wondered if the orb had the power to
halt its flight. But it was just a fevered impression in the kender's mind.
The dragon orb struck the rock and shattered, bursting into a thousand
sparkling pieces. For an instant, a ball of milky white smoke hung in the air,
as if trying desperately to hold itself together. Then the warm,
springlikebreeze of the glade caught it and swept it apart.

There was intense, awful silence.

The kender stood, looking calmly down at the shattered dragon orb.

"We know." he said in a small voice that dropped into the dreadful silence
like a tiny drop of rain, "we should be fighting dragons. Not each other."

No one moved. No one spoke- Then there was a thump.

Gnosh had fainted.

The silence broke-almost as shattering as the breaking of the orb. Lord
Gunthar and the Speaker both lunged at Tas. One caught hold of the kender's
left shoulder, one his right.

"What have you done?" Lord Gunthar's face was livid, his eyes wild as he
gripped the kender with trembling hands.

"You have brought death upon us all!" The Speaker's finger bit into Tas's
flesh like the claws of a predatory bird. "You have destroyed our only hope!"

"And for that, he himself will be the first to die!"

Prthios-tall, grim-faced elflord-loomed above the cow Bring kender, his sword
glistening in his hand. The lend stood his ground between the elven king and
the knight, small face pale, his expression defiant. He had known when
commited his crime that death would be the penalty.

Tanis will be unhappy over what I've done" Tas than sadly. But at least he'll
hear that I died bravely.

"Now, now, now. . ." said a sleepy voice. "No ones going to die! At least not
at this moment. Quit waving that sworb around, Porthios! Someone'lI get hurt."

Tas peered out from under a heaving sea of arms and shin armor to see Fizban,
yawning, step over the inert body of gnome and totter toward them. Elves and
humans made
Ecr [-,:m. to pass, as if compelled to do so by an unseen force. Porthios
whirled to face Fizban, so angry that saliva bubblep his lips and his speech
was nearly incoherent.

"Beware, old man, or you will share in the punishment!"

"I said quit waving that sword around." Fizban snapped irritably, wiggling a
finger at the sword.

Parthios dropped his weapon with a wild cry. Clutching his stinging, burning
hand, he stared down at the sword in astonishment-the hilt had grown thorns!
Fizban came to stand next to the elflord and regarded him angrily.

"You're a fine young man, but you should have been taught some respect for
your elders. I said to put that sword down and I meant it! Maybe you'll
believe me next time!" Fizban's baleful gaze switched to the Speaker. "And
you, Solostaran, were a good man about two hundred years ago. Managed to raise
three fine children-three fine children, I said. Don't give me any of this
nonsense about not having a daughter. You have one, and a fine girl she is.
More sense than her father. Must take after her mother's side. Where was I?
Oh, yes. you brought up Tanis Half-Elven, too. You know, Solastaran, between
the four of these young people, we might save this world get.
"Now I want everyone to take his seat. Yes, you, too, Lord Gunthar. Come
along, Solostaran, I'll help. We old men have to stick together. Too bad
you're such a damn fool."

Muttering into his beard, Fizban led the astounded Speaker to his chair.
Porthios, his face twisted in pain, stumbled back to his seat with the help of
his warriors.

Slowly the assembled elves and knights sat down, murmuring among
themselves-all casting dark looks at the shattered dragon orb that lay beneath
the Whitestone.

Fizban settled the Speaker in his seat, glowered at Lord Quinath, who thought
he had something to say but quickly decided he didn't. Satisfied, the old mage
came back to the front of the Whitestone where Tas stood, shaken and confused.

"You." Fizban looked at the kender as if he'd never seen him before, "go and
attend to that poor chap." He Kaved a hand at the gnome, who was still out
cold.

Feeling his knees tremble, Tasslehoff walked slowly aver to Gnosh and knelt
down beside nice, glad to look at something other than the anger, fear-filled
faces.

"Gnash" he whispered miserably, patting the gnome on the cheek, "I'm sorry. I
truly am, I mean about your Life Quest and your father's soul and everything.
But there just didn't were to be anything else to do."

Fizban turned around slowly and faced the assembled group, pushing his hat
back on his head. "Yes, I'm going to lecture you. You deserve it, every one of
you-so don't sit there looking self-righteous. That kender"-he pointed at
Tasslehoff, who cringed-"has more brains beneath that ridiculous topknot of
his than the lot of you have put together. Do you know what would have
happened to you if the kender hadn't had the guts to do what he did? Do you?
Well, I'II tell you. Just let me find a seat here. . . ." Fizban peered around
vaguely. "Ah, yes, there. . ." Nodding in satisfaction, the old mage toddled
over and sat down on the ground, leaning his back against the sacred
Whitestone!

The assembled knights gasped in horror. Gunthar leaped to his feet, appalled
at this sacrilege.

"No mortal can touch the Whitestone!" he yelled, striding forward.

Fizban slowly turned his head to regard the furious knight. "One more word,"
the old mage said solemnly, "and I'll make your moustaches fall off. Now sit
down and shut up!"

Sputtering, Gunthar was brought up short by an imperious gesture from the old
man. The knight could do nothing but return to his seat.

"Where was I before I was interrupted?" Fizban scowled, Glancing around, his
gaze fell on the broken pieces of the orb "Oh, yes. I was about to tell you a
story. One of you would have won the orb, of course. And you would have taken
it either to keep it 'safe' or to 'save the world' And, yes, it is capable of
saving the world, but only if you know how to use. Who of you has this
knowledge? Who has true strength? Orb was created by the greatest, most
powerful mages of of all the most powerful-do you understand? It was created
by those of the White Robes and these of the Black Robes. It is the essence
of both evil and good. The Red Robes brought the essences together and bound
them with their force. Few there are now with the power and strength to
understand the orb, fathom its secrets, and to gain mastery over it. Few
indeed" Fizban's eyes gleamed-"and none who sit here!"

Silence had fallen now, a profound silence as they listened the old mage,
whose voice was strong and carried above rising wind that was blowing the
storm clouds from, the sky.

"One of you would have taken the orb and used it, and you would have found
that you had hurled yourself upon disaster. You would have been broken as
surely as the kender broke the orb. As for hope being shattered, I tell you
that hope was lost for a time, but now it has been new born-"
A sudden gust of wind caught the old mage's hat, blowing it off his head and
tossing it playfully away from him. Snarling in irritation, Fizban crawled
forward to pick it up.

Just as the mage leaned over, the sun broke through the clouds. There was a
blazing flash of silver, followed by a splintering, deafening crack as though
the land itself had split apart. Half-blinded by the flaring light, people
blinked and gazed in fear and awe at the terrifying sight before their eyes.

The Whitestone had been split asunder.

The old magician lay sprawled at its base, his hat clutched in his hand, his
other arm flung over his head in terror. Above him, piercing the rock where he
had been sitting, was a long
weapon made of gleaming silver. It had been thrown by the silver arm of a
black man, who walked over to stand beside it. Accompanying him were three
people: an elven woman dressed in leather armor, an old, white-bearded dwarf,
and Elistan.

Amid the stunned silence of the crowd, !he black man reached out and lifted
the weapon from the splintered remains of the rock. He held it high above his
head, and the silver barbed point glittered brightly in the rays of the midday
sun.

"I am Theros Ironfeld," the man called out in a deep voice, "and for the last
month I have been forging these!" He shook the weapon in his hand. "I have
taken molten silver from the well hidden deep within the heart of the Monument
of the Silver Dragon. With the silver arm given me by the gods, I have forged
the weapon as legend foretold. And this I -bring to you to all the people of
Krynn-that we may join together and defeat the great evil that threatens to
engulf us in darkness forever. I bring you-the Dragonlance!"

With that, Theros thrust the weapon deep into the ground. It stood, straight
and shining, amid the broken pieces of the dragon orb.


An unexpected journey.

"Finished," Laurana said. "I am free to leave"

"Yes." Elistan said slowly; "and
ll,tknd now my task is fig
I know why you leave" Laurana flushed and lowered her eyes-"but where will you
go?"

"Silvanesti," she replied. "The last place I saw him.."

 "Only in a dream-"

"No, that was more than a dream," Laurana replied, shuddering. "It was real.
He was there. He is alive and I must find him."

"Surely, my dear, you should stay here, then." Elistan suggested. "You say
that in the dream he had found a dragon orb. If he has it, he will come to
Sancrist ."

Laurana did not answer. Unhappy and irresolute, she stared out the window of
Lord Gunthar's castle where she, Elistan, Flint, and Tasslehoff were staying
as his guests.

She should have been with the elves. Before they left Whitestone Glade, her
father had asked her to come back with them to Southern Ergoth. But Laurana
refused. Although she did not say it, she knew she would never live among her
people again.

Her father had not pressed her, and-in his eyes-she saw that he heard her
unspoken words. Elves aged by years, not by days, as did humans. For her
father, it seemed as if tune had accelerated and he was changing even as she
watched. She felt as though she were seeing him through Raistlin's hourglass
eyes, and the thought was terrifying. Yet the news she brought him only
increased his bitter unhappiness.

Gilthanas had not returned. Nor could Laurana tell her father where his
beloved son had gone, for the journey he and Silvara made was dark and fraught
with peril. Laurana told her father only that Gilthanas was not dead.

"You know where he is?" the Speaker asked after a pause.

"I do," Laurana answered, "or rather-I know where he goes."

"And you cannot speak of this, even to me-his father?"

Laurana shook her head steadfastly. "No, Speaker, I cannot. Forgive me, but we
agreed when the decision was made to undertake this desperate action that
those of us who knew would tell no one. No one." she repeated.

"So you do not trust me-"

Laurana sighed. Her eyes went to the shattered Whitestone. "Father," she said,
"you nearly went to war . . . with the only People who can help save us . . .
."

Her father had not replied, but-in his cool farewell and in the way he leaned
upon the arm of his elder child-he made it clear to Laurana that he now had
only one child.

Theras went with the elves. Following his dramatic presentation of the
dragonlance, the Council of Whitestone had voted unanimously to make more of
these weapons and unite all races in the fight against the dragonarmies.

"At present." Theros announced, "we have only those few lances I was able to
forge by myself within a month's time, and I bring several ancient lances the
Silver Dragons hid at the time the dragons were banished from the world. But
we'll need more-many more. I need men to help me!"

The elves agreed to provide men to help make the dragonlances, but whether or
not they would help fight- "That remains a matter we must discuss." the
Speaker said.

"Don't discuss it too long," Flint Fireforge snapped, "or you might find
yourself discussing it with a Dragon Highlord."

"The elves keep their own counsel and ask far no advice from, dwarves," the
Speaker replied coldly. "Besides, we do not even, know if these lances work!
The legend said they were to be forged by one of the Silver Arm, that is
certain. But it also says that the Hammer of Kharas was needed in the forging.
Where is the Hammer now?" he asked Theros.

"The Hammer could not be brought here in time, even if it could be kept from
the dragonarmies. The Hammer of Kharas was required in days of old, because
man's skill was not sufficient by itself to produce the lances. Mine is," he
added proudly "You saw what the lance did to that rock."

"We shall see what it does to dragons." the Speaker said, the Second Council
of Whitestone drew to a close. Gunthah proposed at the last that the lances
Theros had brought with him be sent to the knights in Palanthas.

These thoughts passed through Laurana's mind as she stood out across the bleak
winter landscape. It would've snowing the valley soon, Lord Gunthar said.

I cannot stay here, Laurana thought, pressing herself against the chill glass.
I shall go mad. "I've studied Gunthar's maps," she murmured, almost sing to
herself, "and I've seen the location of the dragonarmies. Tanis will never
reach Sancrist, And if he does have the orb, he may not know the danger it
poses. I must warn him."

"My dear, you're not talking sensibly," Elistan said mildly. "If Tanis cannot
reach Sancrist safely, how will you reach him? Think logically, Laurana-"

"I don't want to think logically!" Laurana cried, stood her foot and glaring
angrily at the cleric, "I'm sick of being sible! I'm tired of this whole war.
I've done my part- more than my part. I just want to find Tanis!" Seeing
Elistan's sympathetic face, Laurana sighed. "I'm sorry, my dear friend. I know
what you say is true." she said, ashamed. "But I can't stay here and do
nothing!"

Though Laurana didn't mention it, she had another concern. That human woman,
that Kitiara. Where was she? Were they together as she had seen in the dream?
Laurana realized now, suddenly, that the remembered image of Kitiara standing
with Tanis's arm around her was more disturbing than the image she had see of
her own death.

At that moment, Lord Gunthar suddenly entered the room. "Ohl" he said,
startled, seeing Elistan and Laurana. "I'm sorry, I hope I am not disturbing-"

"Please, no, come in," Laurana said quickly.

"Thank you." Gunthar said, stepping inside and carefully shutting the
door-first glancing down the hallway to make certain no one was near. He
joined them at the window. "Actually I needed to talk to you both, anyway. I
sent Wills looking for you. This is best, however. No one knows we're
speaking."
More intrigue, Laurana thought wearily. Throughout their journey to Gunthar's
castle, she had heard about nothing but the political infighting that was
destroying the Knighthood.

Shocked and outraged at Gunthar's story of Sturm's trial, Laurana had gone
before a Council of Knights to speak in Sturm's defense. Although the
appearance of a woman at a Cauncil was unheard of, the knights were impressed
by this vibrant, beautiful young woman's eloquent speech on Sturm's behalf.
The fact that Laurana was a member of the royal elven household, and that she
had brought the dragonlances, also spoke highly in her favor.

Even Derek's faction-those that remained-were hardpressed to fault her. But
the knights had been unable to reach a decision. The man appointed to stand in
Lord Alfred's place was strongly in Derek's kept-as the phrase went-and Lord
Michael hoc vacillated to such a degree that Gunthar had been forced to throw
the matter to an open vote. The knights demanded a period of reflection and
the meeting was adjourned. They had reconvened this afternoon. Apparently,
Gunthar had just came from this meeting.

Laurana knew, from the look on Gunthar's face, that things had gone favorably.
But if so, why the maneuvering? "Sturm's been pardoned?" she asked. Gunthar
grinned and rubbed his hands together. "Not pardoned, my dear. That would have
implied his guilt. No. He has been completely vindicated! I pushed for that.
Pardon would not have suited us at all. His knighthood is granted. He has his
command officially bestowed upon him. And Derek is in serious trouble!"

"I am happy, for Sturm's sake," Laurana said coolly, exchanging worried looks
with Elistan. Although she liked what she had seen of Lord Gunthar, she had
been brought up in a royal household and knew Sturm was being made a game
piece. Gunthar caught the edge of ice in her voice, and his face became grave.
"Lady Laurana," he said, speaking more somberly, "I know what you are
thinking, that I am dangling Sturm from puppet strings. Let us be brutally
frank lady. The Knights are divided, split into two factions-Derek's and my
own. And we both know what happens to a tree split in two: both sides wither
and die. This battle between us must end, or will have tragic consequences.
Now, lady and Elistan, for have come to trust and rely on your judgment, I
leave this it your hands. You have met me and you have met Lord Derek
Crownguard, Who would you choose to head the Knights?"

"You, of course, Lord Gunthar," Elistan said sincerely.

Laurana nodded her head. "I agree. This feud is ruinous the Knightood. I saw
that myself, in the Council meeting. And-from what I've heard of the reports
coming from Palanthas-it is hurting our cause there as well. My first concern
must be for my friend, however."

"I quite understand, and I am glad to hear you say so." Gunthar said
approvingly, "because it makes the verve great fav am about to ask of you
easier" Gunthar tack Laurana's arm. "I want you to go to Palanthas."

"What? Why? I don't understand!"

"Of course not. Let me explain. Please sit down. You too Elistan. I'll pour
some wine-"

"I think not," Laurana said, sitting near the window.

"Very well" Gunthar's face became grave. He laid his over Laurana's. "We knew
politics, you and I, lady. So I am going to arrange all my game pieces before
you. You will be traveling to Palanthas to teach the knights to use the
dragonlances. It is a legitimate reason. Without Theros, you and the dwarf are
the only ones who understand their usage. And--let's face it-the dwarf is too
short to handle one."

Gunthar cleared his throat. "You will take the lances to Palanthas. But more
importantly, you will carry with you a Writ of Vindication from the Council
fully restoring Sturm's honor. That will strike the death's blow to Derek's
ambition. The moment Sturm puts on his armor, all will know I have the
Council's full support. I shouldn't wonder if Derek won't go on trial when he
returns"

"But why me?" Laurana asked bluntly. "I can teach anyone Lord Michael, for
example-to use a dragonlance. He can take them to Palanthas. He can carry the
Writ to Sturm-"

"Lady-" Lard Gunthar gripped her hand hard, drawing near and speaking barely
above a whisper- "you still do not understand! I cannot trust Lord Michael! I
cannot- I dare not trust anyone of the knights with this! Derek has been
knocked from his horse-so to speak-but he hasn't lost the tourney yet. I need
someone I can trust implicitly! Someone who knows Derek for what he is, who
has Sturm's best interests at heart!"

"I do have Sturm's interests at heart," Laurana said coldly. "I put them above
the interests of the Knighthood."

"Ah, but remember, Lady Laurana," Gunthar said, rising to his feet and bowing
as he kissed her hand, "Sturm's only interest is the Knighthood. What would
happen to him, do you think, if the Knighthood should fall? What will happen
to him if Derek seizes control?"

In the end of course Laurana agreed to go to Palanthas, as Gunthar had known
she must. As the time of her departure drew nearer, she began to dream almost
nightly of Tanis arriving on the island just hour after she left. More than
once she was on the verge of refusing to go, but then she thought of facing
Tanis, of having to tell him she had refrused to go to Sturm to warn him of
this peril. This kept her from changing her mind. This - and her regard for
Storm. It was during the lonely nights, when her heart and her arms ached for
Tanis, and she had visions of him holding that human Woman -with the dark,
curly hair, hashing brown eyes, and the charming, crooked smile, that her soul
was in turmoil.

Her friends could give her little comfort. One of them, Elistan, left when a
messenger arrived from the elves, requesting the cleric's presence, and asking
that an emissary from the knights accompany him. There was little time for
farewells. Within a day of the arrival of the elven messenger, Elistan and
Lord Alfred's son-a solemn, serious young man named Douglas-began their
journey back to Southern Ergoth. Laurana had never felt so alone as she bid
her mentor goodbye.

Tasslehoff faced a sad parting as well.

In the midst of the excitement over the dragonlance, everyone forgot poor
Gnosh and his Life Quest, which lay in a thousand sparkling pieces on the
grass. Everyone but Fizban, The old magician rose from where he lay covering
on the ground before the shattered Whitestone and went to the stricken gnome,
who was staring woefully at the shattered dragon orb.

"There, there, my boy." said Fizban, "this isn't the end of everything"

"It isn't?" asked Gnosh, so miserable he finished a sentence,
"No, of course not I You've got to look at this from the proper perspective.
Why, now you've got a chance to study a dragon orb from the inside outs"

Gnosh's eyes brightened. "You're right." he said after a short pause, "and, in
fact, I bet I could glue-"

"Yes, yes," Fizban said hurriedly, but Gnosh lunged forward, his speech
growing faster and faster.

"We could tag the pieces,don'tyousee,andthendrawadia gram ofwhereeachpiece
waslyingontheground,which-"

"Quite, quite," Fizban muttered.

"Step aside, sleep aside." Gnosh said importantly, shooing people away from
the orb. "Mind where you walk, Lord Guy thanks and, yes, we're going to study
it from the inside out nosn~, and I should have a report in a matter of
weeks-"

Gnosh and Fizban cordoned off the area and set to work. For the next two days,
Fizban stood on the broken Whitestone making diagrams, supposedly marking the
exact location of each piece before it was picked up. (One of Fizban's
diagrame accidentally ended up in the kender's pouch, Tas, discovered later
that it was actually a game known as "x's and zeroes" which the mage had been
playing against himself and apparently-lost. )

Gnosh, meanwhile, crawled happily around on the grass, sticking bits of
parchment adorned with numbers on pieces of glass smaller than the bits of
parchment. He and Fizban finally collected the 2,687 pieces of dragon orb in a
basket and transported them back to Mount Nevermind.

Tasslehoff had been offered the choice of staying with Fizban or going to
Palanthas with Laurana and Flint. The choice was simple. The kender knew two
such innocents as the elfmaid and the dwarf could not survive without him. But
it was hard leaving his old friend. Two days before the ship sailed, he paid a
final visit to the gnomes and to Fizban.

After an exhilarating ride in the catapult, he found Gnosh in the Examination
Roam. The pieces of the broken dragon orb tagged and numbered-were spread out
across two tables.

"Absolutelyfascinating," Gnosh spoke so fast he stuttered, "because
wehaveanalyzedtheglass, curiousmaterial, unlikenothingwe've everseen,
greatestdiscovery, thiscentury-"

"So your Life Quest is over?" Tas interrupted. "Your father's soul-"

"Restingcomfartably!" Gnosh beamed, then returned to his work.
"Andsogladyoushouldstopby andifyou'reeverinthe
neighborhoodcomebyandseeusagain-"

"I will," Tas said, smiling.

Tas found Fizban two levels down. (A fascinating journey he simply yelled out
the name -of his level, then leaped into the void. Nets flapped and fluttered,
bells went off, gongs sounded and whistles blew. Tas was finally caught one
level above the ground, just as the area was being inundated with sponges.)

Fizban was in Weapons Development, surrounded by gnomes, all gazing at him
with unabashed admiration.

"Ah, my boy!" he said, peering vaguely at Tasslehoff. "You re just in time to
see the testing of our new weapon. Revolutionize warfare. Make the dragonlance
obsolete."

"Really ?" Tas asked in excitement.
"A fact!" Fizban confirmed. "Now, you stand over here-" He motioned to a gnome
who leaped to do his bidding, running to stand in the middle of the cluttered
room.

Fizban picked up what looked, to the kender's confused mind, like a crossbow
that had been attacked by an enraged fisherman. It was a crossbow all right.
But instead of an arrow, a huge net dangled from a hook on the end. Fizban,
grumbling and muttering, ordered the gnomes to stand behind him and give him
room.

"Now, you are the enemy," Fizban told the gnome in the center of the room. The
gnome immediately assumed a fierce, warlike expression. The other gnomes
nodded appreciatively.

Fizban aimed, then let fly. The net sailed out into the air, got snagged on
the hook at the end of crossbow, and snappedback like a collapsing sail to
engulf the magician.

"Confounded hook!" Fizban muttered.

Between the gnomes and Tas, they got him disentangled.

"I guess this is good-bye," Tas said, slowly extending his small hand.

"It is?" Fizban looked amazed" "Am I going somewhere? No one told me. I'm not
packed-"

"I'm going somewhere," Tas said patiently, "with Laur. We're taking the lances
and-oh, I don't think I'm supposed to be telling anyone," he added,
embarrassed.

"Don't worry. Mum's the word." Fizban said in a ho whisper that carried
clearly through the crowded room. "You love Palanthas. Beautiful city. Give
Sturm my regards. and Tasslehoff"-the old magician looked at him shrewdly,
"you did the right thing, my boy!"

"I did?" Tas said hopefully. "I'm glad." He hesitated. "I, wodered . . . about
what you said-the dark path. Did I-?"

Fizban's face grew grave as he gripped Tas firmly an shoulder. "I'm afraid so.
But you have the courage to walk."

"I hope so,"Tas said with a small sigh. "Well, good-bye. I'll be back. Just as
soon as the war's over."

"Oh, I probably won't be there," Fizban said, shaking his head so violently
his hat slid off. "Soon as the new weapon's perfected, I'll be leaving for-"
he paused. "Where was that I supposed to go? I can't seem to recall. But don't
worry. We'll meet again. At least you're not leaving me buried under a pile of
chicken feathers!" he muttered, searching for his hat."

Tas picked it up and handed it to him.
"Good-bye," the kender said, a choke in his voice.
"Good-bye, good-bye!" Fizban waved cheerfully. Then giving the gnomes a hunted
glance-he pulled Tas over to him. "Uh, I seem to have forgotten something.
What was my name again?"

Someone else said good-bye to the old magician, too, although not under quite
the same circumstances.

Elistan was pacing the shore of Sancrist, waiting for the boat that would take
him back to Southern Ergoth. The young man, Douglas, walked along beside him.
The two were deep in conversation, Elistan explaining the ways of the ancient
gods to a rapt and attentive listener.
Suddenly Elistan looked up to see the old, befuddled magician he had seen at
the Council meeting. Elistan had tried for days to meet the old mage, but
Fizban always avoided him. Thus it was with astonishment Elistan saw the old
man come walking toward them now along the shoreline. His head was bowed, he
was muttering to himself. For a moment, Elistan thought he would pass by
without noticing them, when suddenly the old mage raised his head.

"Oh, I say! Haven't we met?" he asked, blinking.

For a moment Elistan could not speak. The cleric's face turned deathly white
beneath its weathered tan. He was finally able to answer the old mage, his
voice was husky. "Indeed we have, sir. I did not realize it before now. And
though we were but lately introduced, I feel that I have known you a long,
long time."

"Indeed?" The old man scowled suspiciously. "You're not making some sort of
comment on my age, are you?"

"No, certainly not!" Elistan smiled.

The old man's face cleared, "Well, have a pleasant journey. And a safe one.
Farewell."

Leaning on a bent and battered staff, the old man toddled an past them.
Suddenly he stopped and turned around. "Oh, by the way, the name's Fizban."

"I'll remember." Elistan said gravely, bowing, "Fizban."

Pleased, the old magician nodded and continued on his way along the shoreline
while Elistan, suddenly thoughtful and quiet, resumed his walk with a sigh.

The Perechan.
Memories of long ago.

"This is crazy, I hope you realize that!" Caramon hissed.

"We wouldn't be here if we were sane, would we?" Tanis responded, gritting his
teeth.

"No," Cararnon muttered., "I suppose you're right."

The two men stood in the shadows of a dark alleyway, of a town where generally
the only things ever found in alley were rats, drunks and dead bodies.

The name of the   wretched town was Flotsam, and it was well-named, for it lay
upon the shores   of the Blood Sea of like the wreckage of a broken vessel
tossed upon the   rocks. Peopled by the dregs of most of the races of Krynn,
Flotsam was, in   addition, an occupied town now, overrun with draconians,
goblins, and mercenaries of all races, attracted to the Highlords by high
wages and the spoils of war.

And so, "like the other scum," as Raistlin observed, the companions floated
along upon the tides of war and were deposited in Flotsam. Here they hoped to
find a ship that would take them on the long, treacherous journey around the
northern part of Ansalon to Sancrist-or wherever-
Where they were going was a point that had been much in contention lately-ever
since Raistlin's recovery from his illness. The companions had anxiously
watched him following his use of the dragon orb, their concern not completely
centered on his health. What had happened when he used the orb? What harm
might he have brought upon them?

"You need not fear," Raistlin told them in his whispering voice. "I am not
weak and foolish like the elven king. I gained control of the orb. It did not
gain control off me."

"Then what does it do? How can we use it?" Tanis asked, alarmed by the frozen
expression on the mages metallic face.

"It took all my strength to gain control of the orb." Raistlin replied, his
eyes on the ceiling above his bed. "It will require much more study before I
learn how to use it."i

"Study . . ." Tanis repeated. "Study of the orb?"

Raistlin flicked him a glance, then resumed staring at the ceiling. "No," he
replied. "The study of books, written by the ancient ones who created the orb.
We must go to Palanthas, to the library of one Astinus, who resides there."

Tanis was silent for a moment. He could hear the mage's breath rattle in his
lungs as he struggled to draw breath.

What keeps him clinging to this life? Tanis wondered silently.

It had snowed that morning, but now the snow had changed to rain. Tanis could
hear it drumming on the wooden roof of the wagon. Heavy clouds drifted across
the sky. Perhaps it was the gloom of the day, but as he looked at Raistlin,
Tanis felt a chill creep through his body until the cold seemed to freeze his
heart.

"Was this what you meant, when you spoke of ancient spells?" Tanis asked.

"Of course. What else?" Raistlin paused, coughing, then asked, "When did I
speak of . . .ancient spells?"

"When we first found you." Tanis answered, watching the mage closely. He
noticed a crease in Raistlin's forehead and heard tension in his shattered
voice.

"What did I say?"

"Nothing much." Tanis replied warily. "Just something about ancient spells,
spells that would soon be yours."

"That was all?"

Tanis did not reply immediately. Raistlin's strange, hourglass eyes focused on
him coldly. The half-elf shivered and nodded. Raistlin turned his head away.
His eyes closed. "I will sleep now." he said softly. "Remember, Tanis.
Palanthas."

Tanis was forced to admit he wanted to go to Sancrist for purely selfish
reasons. He hoped against hope that Laurana and Sturm and the others would be
there. And it was where he had promised he would take the dragon orb. But
against this, he had to weigh Raistlin's steady insistence that they must go
to the library of this Astinus to discover how to use the orb.

His mind was still in a quandary when they reached Flotsam. Finally, he
decided they would set about getting passage on ship going north first and
decide where to land later.

But when they reached Flotsam, they had a nasty shock. There were more
draconians in that city than they had seen on their entire journey from Port
Balifor north. The streets were crawling with heavily armed patrols, taking an
intense interest in strangers. Fortunately, the companions had sold their wag
before entering the town, so they were able to mingle with crowds on the
streets. But they hadn't been inside one -city gate five minutes before they
saw a draconian patrol arrest a 6umals for "questioning."

This alarmed them, so they took rooms in the first inn they came to-a run-down
place at the edge of town.

"How are we going to even get to the harbor, much less buy passage on a ship?"
Caramon asked as they settled into their shabby rooms. "What's going on?"

"The innkeeper says a Dragon Highlord is in town. The draconians are searching
for spies or something." Tanis muttered uncomfortably. The companions
exchanged glances.

"Maybe they're searching for us." Caramon said.

"That's ridiculous!" Tanis answered quickly-too quickly. "We're getting
spooked. How could anyone know we're here? Or know what we carry?"

"I wonder-" Riverwind said grimly, glancing at Raistlin.

The mage returned his glance coolly, not deigning to answer. "Hot water for my
drink." he instructed Caramon.

"There's only one way I can think of."
Tanis said, as Caramon brought his brother the water as ordered. "Caramon and
I will go out tonight and waylay two of the draganarmy soldiers. We'll steal
their uniforms. Not the draconians-" he said hastily, as Caramon's brow
wrinkled in disgust. "The human mercenaries. Then we can move around Flotsam
freely."

After same discussion, everyone agreed it was the only plan that seemed likely
to work. The companions ate dinner without much appetite-dining in their rooms
rather than risk going into the common room.

"You'll be all right?" Caramon asked Raistlin uneasily when the two were alone
in the room they shared.

"I am quite capable of taking care of myself," Raistlin replied. Rising to his
feet, he hadpicked up a spellboak to study, when a fit of coughing doubled him
over.

Caramon reached out his hated, but Raistlin flinched away- "Be gone!" the mage
gasped. "Leave me be!"
Cararnon hesitated, then he sighed. "Sure, Raist," he said, and left the room,
shutting the door gently behind him.

Raistlin stood far a moment, trying to catch his breath. Then he moved slowly
across the room, setting dawn the spellbook. With a trembling hand, he picked
up one of the many sacks that Caramon had placed on the table beside his bed.
Opening it, Raistlin carefully withdrew the dragon orb.

Tanis and Caramon-the half-elf keeping his hood pulled low over his face and
ears-walked the streets of Flotsam, watching for two guards whose uniforms
might fit them. This
would have been relatively easy for Tanis, but finding a guard whose armor fit
the giant Caramon was more difficult.

They both knew they had better find something quickly. More than once,
draconians looked them over suspiciously. Two draconians even flopped them,
insisting roughly on knowing their business. Caramon replied in the crude
mercenary dialect that they were seeking employment in the Dragon Highlord's
army, and the draconians let them go. But both men knew it was only a matter
of time before a patrol caught them.

"I wonder what's going on?" Tanis muttered worriedly.

"Maybe the war's heating up for the Highlords." Caramon began. "There, look,
Tanis. Going into that bar-"

"I see. Yeah, he's about your size. Duck into that alley. Well wait until they
come out, then-"The half-elf made a motion of wringing a neck. Caramon nodded.
The two slipped through the filthy streets and vanished into the alley, hiding
where they could keep on eye on the front door of the bar.

It was nearly, midnight. The moons would not rise tonight. The rain had
ceased, but clouds still obscured the sky. The two men crouched in the alley
were soon shivering, despite their heavy cloaks. Rats skittered across their
feet, making them cringe in the darkness. A drunken hobgoblin took a wrong
step and lurched past them, falling headfirst into a pile of garbage, The
hobgoblin did not get back up again and the stench near made Tanis and Caramon
sick, but they dared not leave their vantage point.

Then they heard welcome sounds-drunken laughter human voices speaking Common.
The two guards they been waiting for lurched out of the bar and staggered)
towards them.

A tall iron brazier stood on the sidewalk, lighting the road. The mercenaries
lurched into its light, giving Tanis a dose at them. Both were officers in the
dragonarmy, he sawn, promoted, he guessed, which may have been what they
celebrating. Their armor was shining new, relatively clean and undented. It
was good armor, too, he saw with satisfacion.

Made of blue steel, it was fashioned after the style of Highlords' own
dragon-scale armor.

"Ready?" Caramon whispered. Tanis nodded.

Caramon drew his sword. "Elven scum!" he roared his deep, barrel-chested bass.
"I've found you out, and now you'll come with me to the Dragon Highlord, spy!"

"You'll never take me alive!" Tanis drew his own sword.
At the sound of their voices, the two officers staggered to stop, peering
bleary-eyed into the dark alley.

The officers watched with growing interest as Caraman and Tanis made a few
passes at each other, maneuvering themselves into position. When Caramon's
back was to the officers and Tanis was facing them, the half-elf made a sudden
move. Disarming Caramon, he sent the warriors sword flying.

"Quick! Help me take him!" Caramon bellowed. "There's a reward out for
him-dead or alive!"

The officers never hesitated. Fumbling drunkenly for their weapons, they
headed for Tanis, their faces twisted into expressions of cruel pleasure.

"That's it! Nail him!" Caramon urged, waiting until they were past him.
Then-just as they raised their swords -Caramon's huge hands encircled their
necks. He slammed their heads together, and the bodies slumped to the ground.

"Hurry!" Tanis grunted. He dragged one body by the feet away from the light.
Caramon followed with the other. Quickly they began to strip off the armor.

"Phew! This one must have been half-troll," Caramon said, waving his hand to
clear the air of the foul smell.

"Quit complaining !" Tanis snapped, trying to figure out how the complex
system of buckles and straps worked. "At least you're used to wearing this
stuff. Give me a hand with this, wiII you?"

"Sure." Caramon, grinning, helped to buckle Tanis into the armor "An elf in
plate armor. What's the world coming to?"

"Sad times." Tanis muttered. "When are we supposed to meet that ship captain
Grliam told you about?"

"He said we could find her on board around daybreak."

"The name's Maquesta Kar-thon." said the woman, her expression cold and
businesslike. "And-let me guess-you're not officers in the dragonarmy, not
unless they're hiring elves these days."

Tanis flushed, slowly drawing off the helm of the officer. "ls it that
obvious?"

beard is very shrugged. "Probably not to anyone else. The ery good-perhaps I
should say half-elf, of course. And the helm hides your ears. But unless you
get a mask, those pretty, almond shaped eyes of yours are a dead give-away.
But
tern' na. many draconians are apt to look into your pretty eyes, are they?"
Leaning back in her chair, she put a booted foot on a table, and regarded him
coolly.

Tanis heard Caramon chuckle, and felt his skin burn.

They were on board the Perechon, sitting in the captain's cabin, across from
the captain herself. Maquesta Kar-thon was one of the dark-skinned race living
in Northern Ergoth. Her people had been sailors for centuries and, it was
popularly believed, could speak the languages of seabirds and dolphins. Tanis
found himself thinking of Theros Ironfeld as he looked at Maquesta. The
woman's skin was shining black, her hair tightly curled and bound with a gold
band around her forehead. Her eyes were brown and shining as her skin. But
there was the glint of steel from the dagger at her belt, and the glint of
steel in her eyes.

"We're here to discuss business, Captain Maque-" Tanis stumbled over the
strange name.

"Sure you are." the woman said. "And call me Maq. Easier for both of us. It's
well you have this letter from Pig-faced William, or I wouldn't have even
talked to you. But he says you're square and your money's good, so I'll
listen. Nor, where're. you bound?"

Tanis exchanged glances with Caramon. That was the question. Besides, he
wasn't certain he wanted either of their destinations known. Palanthas was the
capital city of Solamnia, while Sancrist was a well-known haven of the
Knights.

"Oh, for the love of-" Maq snapped, seeing them hesitate. Her eyes flared.
Removing her foot from the table, she stared a them grimly. "You either trust
me or you don't!"

"Should we?" Tanis asked bluntly.

Maq raised an eyebrow. "How much money do you have?"

"Enough." Tanis said. "Let's just say that we want to go north, around the
Cape of Nordmaar. If, at that point, we find each other's company agreeable,
we'll go on. If not, we pay you off, and you put us in a safe harbor."

"Kalaman," said Maq, settling back. She seemed amused. "That's a safe harbor.
As safe as any these days. Half money now. Half at Kalaman. Any farther is
negotiable."

"Safe delivery to Kalaman" Tanis amended.

"Who can promise?"' Maq shrugged. "It's a rough time year to travel by sea."
She rose languidly, stretchinrz like a Caramon, standing up quickly, stared at
her admiringly.

"It's a deal." she said. "Come on. I'll show you the ship."

Maq led them onto the deck. The ship seemed fit and trim as far as Tanis, who
knew nothing about ships, could tell. Her voice and manner had been cold when
they first talked to her, but when she showed them around her ship, she seemed
to warm up. Tanis had seen the same expression, heard the same warm tones Maq
used in talking about her ship that Tika used when talking about Caramon. The
Perechon was obviously Maq's only love.

The ship was quiet, empty. Her crew was ashore, along with her first mate, Maq
explained. The only other person Tanis saw on board was a man sitting by
himself, mending a sail. The man looked up as they passed, and Tanis saw his
eyes widen in alarm at the sight of the dragon armor.

"Nocesta, Berem," Maq said to him soothingly as they passed. She made a
slashing motion with her hand, gesturing to Tanis and Caramon. "Nocesta.
Customers. Money."

The man nodded and went back to his work.

"Who is he?" Tanis asked Maq in a low voice as they walked toward her cabin
once more to conclude their business.
"Who? Berem?" she asked, glancing around. "He's the helmsman. Don't know much
about him. He came around a few months back, looking for work. Took him on as
a deckswab. Then my helmsman was killed in a small altercation with- well,
never mind. But this fellow turned out to be a damn good hand at the wheel,
better than the first, in fact. He's an odd one, though. A mute. Never speaks.
Never goes ashore, if he can help it. Wrote his name down for me in the ship's
book, or I wouldn't have known that much about him. Why?" she asked, noticing
Tanis studying the man intently.

Berem was tall, well-built. At first sight, one might guess him to be
middle-aged, by human terms. His hair was gray; his face was clean-shaven,
deeply tanned, and weathered from months spent on board ship. But his eyes
were youthful, clear, and bright. The hands that held the needle were smooth
andstrong, the hands of a young man. Elven blood, perhaps, Tanis thought, but
if so at wasn't apparent in any of his features.

"I've seen him somewhere," Tanis murmured. "How about you: Caramon? Do you
remember him?"

"lash, come on." sand the big warrior. "We've seen hundreds of people this
past month, Tanis. He was probably in the audience at one of our shows."

"No." Tanis shook his head. "When I first saw him, I thought of Pax Tharkas
and Sturm . . . ."

"Hey I got a lot of work to do, half-elf," Maquesta said. "You coming or you
gonna gawk at a guy stitching a sail?"

 She climbed down the hatch. Caramon followed clumsily, his sword and armor
clanking. Reluctantly, Tanis went after them. But he tamed for one final look
at the man-and caught the man regarding him with a strange, penetrating gaze.

"All right, you go back to the Inn with the others. I'll buy the supplies. We
sail when the ship's ready. Maquesta says about four days."

"I wish it was sooner," muttered Caramon.

"So do I." said Tanis grimly. "There's too damn many   draconians around here.
But we've got to wait for the tide or such thing. Go   back to the inn and keep
everyone inside. Tell your brother to lay in a store   of that herb stuff he
drinks, we'll be at sea a long time. I'll be back in   a few hours, after I get
supplies."

Tanis walked down the crowded streets of Flotsam, no one giving him a second
glance in his dragon armor. He would be glad to take it off. It was hot, heavy
and itchy. And he trouble remembering to return the salutes of draconians
goblins. It was beginning to occur to him-as he saw respect his uniform
commanded-that the humans they took the uniforms from must have held a high
rank. The thought was not comforting. Any moment now, someone might recognize
his armor. But he couldn't do without it, he knew. There were draconians in
the streets than ever today. The air of tension in Flotsam was high. Most of
the town's citizens were stay home, and most of the shops were closed-with the
exception of the taverns. In fact, as he passed one closed shop another, Tanis
began to worry about where he was going to buy supplies for the long, ocean
voyage.

Tanis was musing on this problem as he stared into a shop window, when a hand
suddenly wrapped around him
and yanked him to the ground.
The fall knocked the breath from the half-elf's body. He struck his head
heavily on the cobblestones and-for a moment-was groggy with pain.
Instinctively he kicked out at whatever had him by the feet, but the hands
that grasped him were strong. He felt himself being dragged into a dark alley.

Shaking his head to clear it, he strained to look at his captor. It was an
elf! His clothes filthy and torn, his elven features distorted by grief and
hatred, the elf stood above him, a spear in his hand.

"Dragon man!" the elf snarled in Common. "Your foul kind slaughtered my
family-my wife and my children! Murdered them in their beds, ignoring their
pleas far mercy. This is for them!" The elf raised his spear.
"Steak! It mo dracosali! Tanis cried desperately in elven, struggling to gull
off his helmet. But the elf, driven insane by grief, was beyond hearing or
understanding. His spear plunged downward. Suddenly the elf's eyes grew wide,
riveted in shock.

The spear fell from his nerveless fingers as a sword punctured him from
behind. The dying elf fell with a shriek, landing heavily upon the pavement.

Tanis looked up in astonishment to see who had saved his life. A Dragon
Highlord stood over the elf's body.

"I heard you shouting and saw one of my officers in trouble. I guessed you
needed some help," said the Highlord, reaching out a gloved hand to help Tanis
up.

Confused, dizzy with pain and knowing only that he mustn't give himself away;
Tanis accepted the Highlord's hand and struggled to his feet. Ducking his
face, thankful for the dark shadows in the alley Tanis mumbled words of thanks
in a harsh voice, Then he saw the Highlord's eyes behind the mask widen.
"Tanis?"

The half-elf felt a shudder run through his body, a pain as swift and sharp as
the elven spear. He could not speak, he could only stare as the Highlord
swiftly removed. the blue and gold dragon nook.

'Tanis! It is you!" the Highlord cried, grasping him by the arms, Tanis saw
bright brown eyes, a crooked, charming smile. "Kitiara"


Tanis captured.

"So, Tanis! An officer, and in my own command. I should review my troops more
often!" Kitiara laughed, sliding her arm through his. "You're shaking. You
took a nasty fall. Come on. My rooms aren't far from here. We'll have a drink,
patch up that wound, then . . . talk."

Dazed-but not from the head wound-Tanis let Kit lead him out of the alley onto
the sidewalk. Too much had happaned too fast. One minute he had been buying
supplies now he was walking arm in arm with a Dragon Highlord who had just
saved his life and who was also the woman he loved for so many years. He could
not help but stare at her, and Kitiara-knowing his eyes were on her-returned
his gaze from beneath her long, sooty-black eyelashes.

The gleaming, night-blue dragon-scale armor of the Highlords suited her well,
Tanis caught himself thinking. It was tight-fitting, emphasizing the curves of
her long legs.
Draconians swarmed around them, hoping for even a brief nod from the    Highlord.
But Kitiara ignored them, chatting breezily with Tanis as if it were    only an
afternoon since they had parted, instead of five years. He could not    absorb
her words, his brain was still fumbling to make sense of this, while    his body
was reacting-once again-to her nearness.

The mask had left her hair somewhat damp, the curls clung to heir face and
forehead. Casually she ran her gloved hand through her hair, shaking it out.
It was an old habit of hers and that small gesture brought back memories-

Tanis shook his head, struggling desperately to pull his shattered world
together and! attend to her words. The lives of his friends depended on what
he did now.

"It's hot beneath that dragonhelm!" she was saying. "I don't need the
frightful thing to keep my men in line. Do I?" she asked, winking.

"N-no," Tanis stammered, feeling himself flush.

"Same   old Tanis," she murmured, pressing her body against his. "You still
blush   like a schoolboy. But you were never like the others, never... " she
added   softly. Pulling him close, she put her arms around him. Closing her
eyes,   her moist lips brushed his...

"Kit-" Tanis said in a strangled voice, wrenching backwards. "Not here! Not in
the street,' he added lamely.

For a moment Kitiara regarded him angrily, then, shrugging, she dropped her
hand down to clasp his arm again. Together they continued along the street,
the draconians leering and joking.

"Same Tanis," she said again, this time with a little, breathless sigh. "I
don't know why I let you get away with it. Any other man who refused me like
that would have died on my sword. Ah, here we are."

She entered the best inn in Flotsam, the Saltbreeze. Built high on a cliff, it
overlooked the Blood Sea of Istar, whose waves broke on the rocks below. The
innkeeper hurried forward. "Is my room made up?" Kit asked coolly.

"Yes Highlord," the innkeeper said, bowing again and again.

They ascended the stair, the innkeeper hustled ahead them to make certain that
all was in order. Kit glanced around. Finding everything satisfactory, she
caaually tossed the Dragonheim on a table and began pulling off her gloves.
Sitting down in a chair, she raised her leg with sensual and deliberate
abandon.

"My boots" she said to Tanis, smiling.

Swallowing, giving her a week smile in return, Tanis gripped her leg in his
hands. This had been an old game of theirs -him taking off her boots. It had
always led to- Tanis tried to keep himself from thinking about that!

"Bring us a bottle of your finest wine," Kitiara told the hovering innkeeper,
"and two glasses." She raised her other leg, her brown eyes on Tanis. "Then
leave us alone."

"But-my lord-" the innkeeper said hesitantly, "there have been messages from
Dragon Highlord Ariakus. ."
 "If you show your face in this room -after you bring the wine--I'll cut off
your ears," Kitiara said pleasantly. But, as she spoke, she drew a gleaming
dagger from her belt.

The innkeeper turned pale, nodded, and left hurriedly.

Kit laughed. "There!" she said, wiggling her toes in their silken hose. "Now.
I'll take off your boots-"

"I-I really must go," Tanis said, sweating beneath his armour, my c company
commander will be missing me . . "

"But I'm commander of your company!" Kit said gaily. "tomorrow You'll be
commander of your company. Or higher if you like. Now. sit down."

Tanis could do nothing but obey, knowing, however, that his heart he wanted to
do nothing but obey.

"It's so good to see you." Kit said, kneeling before him tugging at his boot.
"I m sorry I missed the reunion in Solace. How is everyone? How is Sturm?
Probably fighting with Knights, I suppose. I'm not surprised you two
separated. It was was one friendship I never could understand-"
Kitiara talked on, but Tanis ceased to listen. He couldn't look at her. He had
forgotten how lovely she was, how sensual, inviting. Desperately he
concentrated on his own danger. But all he could think of were nights of bliss
spent with Kitiara.

At that   moment, Kit looked up into his eyes. Caught and held by the passion
she saw   in them, she let his boot slip from her hands. Involuntarily, Tanis
reached   out and drew her near. Kitiara slid her hand around his neck and
pressed   her lips against his.

At her touch, the desires and longings that had tormented Tanis for five years
surged through his body. Her fragrance, warm and womanly-mingled with the
smell of steel. Her kiss was like flame. The pain was unbearable. Tanis knew
only one way to end it.

When the innkeeper knocked on the door, he recieved no answer. Shaking his
head in admiration-this was the third man in as many days-he set the wine upon
the floor and left.

"And now." Kitiara murmured sleepily, lying in Tanis's arms "Tell me about my
little brothers. Are they with you? The last I saw them, you were escaping
from Tarsis with that elf woman."

"That was you!" Tanis said, remembering the blue dragons.

"Of course!" Kit cuddled nearer. "I like the beard" stroking his face. "It
hides those weak elvish features. How did you get into the army?"

How indeed? thought Tanis frantically.

"We . . . were captured in Silvanesti. One of the of winced me I was a fool to
fight the D-Dark Queen."

"And my little brothers?"

"We-we were separated," Tanis said weakly.

"A pity." Kit said with a sigh. "I'd like to see them again. Caramon must be a
giant by now. And Raistlin-I hear he is quite a skilled mage. Still wearing
the Red Robes?"

"I-I guess," Tanis muttered. "I haven't seen him"

"That won't last long." Kit said complacently. "He's like me. Raist always
craved power . . ."

"What about you?" Tanis interrupted quickly. "What are you doing here, so far
from the action? The fighting's north"

"Why, I'm here for the same reason you are." Kit opening her eyes wide.
"Searching for the Green Gemstone Man of course."

"That's where I've seen him before!" Tanis said, flooding his mind. The man on
the Perechon! The man in Pax Tharkas, escaping with poor Eben. The man with
the green gemstone embedded in the center of his chest.

"You've found him!" Kitiara said, sitting up eagerly. "Where, Tanis? Where?"
Her brown eyes glittered.

"I'm not sure," Tanis said, faltering. "I'm not sure it was him. I-we were
just given a rough description . . ."

"He looks about fifty in   human years," Kit said in excitement, "but he has
strange, young eyes, and   his hands are young. And in the flesh of his chest is
a green gemstone. We had   reports. he was sighted in Flotsam. That's why the
Dark Queen sent me here.   Hes the key; Tanis! Find him-and no force on Krynn
can stop us!"

"Why?" Tanis made himself ask calmly. "What's he got that's so essential
to-uh-our side winning this war?"

"Who knows." Shrugging back in Tanis's arms. "You're shivering. Here, this
will warm you." She kissed his neck, running her hands over his body."We were
just told the most important thing we could do to end this war in one swift
stroke is to find this man."

Tarus swallowed, feeling himself warming to her touch.

"Just think," Kitiara whispered in his ear, her breath hot and moist against
his skin, "if we found him-You and I-we woould have all of Krynn at our feet!
The Dark Queen would reward us beyond anything we ever dreamed! You and I,
together always, Tanis. Let's go now!"

Her words echoed in his mind. The two of them,together, forever. Ending the
war. Ruling Krynn., No, he thought. Feeling his throat constrict. This as
madness! Insanity ! My People, friends. . . . Yet, haven't I done enough?
What do I owe any them, humans or elves? Nothing! They are the ones who hurt
me, derided me! All these years -a cast out. Me! It's time I thought about me
for a change! This is the woman I've dreamed of for so long. And she can be
mine. Kitiara . . . so beautiful. so desirable....

"No?" Tanis said harshly, then, "No" he said more gently. Reaching out his
hand, he pulled her back near him. "Tomorrow will do. if it was him, he isn't
going anywhere. I know-"

Kitiaca smiled and, with a sigh, Lay back down. Tanis bending over her, kissed
her passionately. Far away he could hear the waves of the Blood Sea of Istar
crashing on the shore.
The High Clerist's Tower. The Knighting.

By morning, the storm over Solamnia had blown itself out.. The sun rose-a disk
of pale gold that warmed morning. The knights who stood watch upon the
battlements of the Tower of the High Clerist went thankfully to their beds,
talking of the wonders they had seen during the awful night, for such a storm
as this has not been known in the lands of Solamnia since the days after the
Cataclysm. Those who took over the watch from their fellow knights were nearly
as weary; no one had slept.

Now they looked out upon a plain covered with snow and ice. Here and there the
landscape was dotted with flickering flames where trees, blasted by the fagged
lightning that had streaked out of the sky during the blizzard, burned eerily.
But it was not to those strange flames the eyes of the knights turned as they
ascended the battlements. It was to the flames that burned upon the
horizon-hundreds and hundreds of flames, filling the clear, cold air with
their foul smoke. The campfires of war. The campfires of the dragonarmies.

One thing stood between the Dragon Highlord and victory in Solamnia. That
"thing" as the Highlord often referred to it was the Tower of the High
Clerist.

Built long ago by Siinas Salamnus, founder of the knights, in the only pass
through the snow-capped, cloud-shrouded Vingaard Mountains. The Tower
protected Palanthas; capital city of Solamnia, and the harbor known as the
Gates of Paladine. Let the Tower fall, and Palanthas would belong to the
dragonarmies. It was a soft city-a city of wealth and beauty, a city that had
turned its back upon the world to gaze with admiring eyes into its own mirror.

With Palanthas in her hands and the harbor under her control, the Highlord
could easily starve the rest of Solamnia into submission and then wipe out
the troublesome knights.
The Dragon Highlord, called the Dark Lady by her troops was not in camp this
day. She was gone an secret business to the east. But she had left loyal and
able commanders behind, commanders who would do anything to win her favor.

Of all the Dragon Highlords, the Dark Lady was known to sit highest in the
regard of her Dark Queen. And so the troops of draconians, goblins,
hobgoblins, ogres, and humans sat at their campfires, staring at the Tower
with hungry eyes longing to attack and earn her conmendation.

The Tower was defenaed by a large garrison of Knigts of Solamnia who had moved
out from Palanthas only a few weeks ago. Legend recalled that the Tower had
never fallen while men of faith held it, dedicated as it was to the Clerist
-that position which, second only to the Grand Master, was most revered in the
Knighthood.

The clerics of Paladine had lived in the High Clerists Tower during the Age of
Dreams. Here young knights had come for their religious training and
indoctrination. There were many traces of the clerics' presence left behind.

It wasn't only fear of the legend that forced the dragonarmies to sit idle. It
didn't take a legend to tell their commanders that taking this Tower was going
to be costly.

"Time is in our favor," stated the Dark Lady before she left. "Our spies tell
us the knights have received little help from Palanthas. We've cut off their
supplies from Vingaard Keep to the east. Let them sit in their Tower and
starve. Sooner or later their impatience and their stomachs will cause them to
make a mistake. When they do, we will be ready."

"We could take it with a flight of dragons." muttered a young commander. His
name was Bakaris, and his bravery in battle and his handsome face had done
much to advance him in the Dark Lady's favor. She eyed him speculatively,
however, as she prepared to mount her blue dragon. Skie.

"Perhaps not." she said coolly. "You've heard the reports of the discovery of
the ancient weapon-the dragonlance?"

"Bah! Children's stories!" The young commander laughed as he assisted her onto
Skies back. The blue dragon stood glaring at the handsome commander with
fierce, fiery eyes.

"Never discount children's stogies," the Dark Lady said, "for these were the
same tales that were told of dragons." She shrugged. "Do not worry, my pet. If
my mission to capture the Green Gemstone Man is successful, we will not need
to attack the Tower, for its destruction will be assured. If not, perhaps I
will bring you that flight of dragons you ask for."

With that, the giant blue lifted his wings and sailed off toward the east,
heading for a small and wretched town called Flotsam on the Blood Sea of
Istar.

And so the dragonarmies waited, warm and comfortable around their fires,
while-as the Dark Lady had predicted-the knights in their Tower starved. But
far worse than the lack of food was the bitter dissension within their own
ranks.

The young knights under Sturm Brightblade's command had grown to revere their
disgraced leader during the hard months that followed their departure from
Sancrist. Although melancholy and often aloof, Sturm's honesty and integrity
won him his mens respect and admiration. It was a costly victory, causing
Sturm a great deal of suffering at Derek's hands. A less noble man might have
turned a blind eye to Derek's political maneuvers,or at least kept his mouth
shut (as did Lord Alfred), but Sturm spoke out against Derek constantly-even
though he knew it worsened his own cause with the powerful knight.

It was Derek who had completely alienated the people of Palanthas. Already
distrustful, filled with old hatreds and bitterness,the people of the
beautiful, quiet city were alarmed and angered by Derek's threats when they
refused to allow the knights to garrison the city. It was only through Sturm's
patient negotiations that the knights received any supplies at all.

The situation did not improve when the knights reached the High Clerist's
Tower. The disruption among the knights lowered the morale of the footmen,
already suffering from a lack of food. Soon the Tower itself became an armed
camp-the majority of knights who favored Derek were now opposed by those
siding with Lord Gunthar, led by Sturm. It was only because of the knights'
strict obedience to the Measure that fights within the Tower itself had not
yet broken out. But the demoralizing sight of the dragonarmies camped nearby
as well as the lack of food, led to frayed tempers and nerves.

Too late, Lord Alfred realized their danger. He bitterly regretted his own
folly in supporting Derek, for he could clearly see now that Derek Crownguard
was going insane.

The madness grew on him daily. Derek's lust for power ate away at him and
deprived him of his reason. But Lord Alfred was powerless to act. So locked
into their rigid structure were the knights that it would take-according to
the Measure - months of Knights Councils to strip Derek of his rank.

News of Sturm's vindication struck this dry and crackling forest like a bolt
of lightning. As Gunthar had foreseen, this completely shattered Derek's
hopes. What Gunthar had not foreseen was that this would sever Derek's tenuous
hold on sanity.

On the morning following the storm, the eyes of the guards turned for a moment
from their vigilance over the dragonamries to look down into the courtyard of
the Tower of the High Clerist. The sun filled the gray sky with a chill, pale
light that was reflected in the coldly gleaming armor of the Knights of
Solamnia as they assembled in the solemn ceremony awarding knighthood.

Above them, the flags with the Knight's Crest seemed frozen upon the
battlements, hanging lifeless in the still, cold air. Then a trumpet's pure
notes split the air, stirring the blood. At that clarion call, the knights
lifted their heads proudly and marched into the courtyard.

Lord Alfred stood in the center of a circle of knights. Dressed in his battle
armor, his red cape fluttering from his shoulders, he held an antique sword in
an old, battered scabbard. The kingfisher, the rose, and the crown-ancient
symbols of the Knighthood-were entwined upon the scabbard. The lord cast a
swift, hopeful gaze around the assembly, but then lowered his eyes, shaking
his head.

Lord Alfred's worst fears were realized. He had hoped bleakly that this
ceremony might reunite the knights. But it was having the opposite effect.
There were great gaps in the Sacred Circle, gaps that the knights in
attendance stared at uncomfortably. Derek and his entire command were absent.

The trumpet call sounded twice more, then silence fell upon the assembled
knights. Sturm Brightblade, dressed in long, white robes, stepped out of the
Chapel of the High Clerist where he had spent the night in solemn prayer and
meditation as prescribed by the Measure. Accompanying him was an unusual Guard
of Honor.

Beside Sturm walked an elven woman, her beauty shining in the bleakness of the
day like the sun dawning in the spring. Behind her walked an old dwarf, the
sunlight bright on his white hair and beard. Next to the dwarf came a kender
dressed in bright blue leggings.

The circle of knights opened to admit Sturm and his escorts. They came to a
halt before Lord Alfred. Laurana, holding his helm in her hands, stood on his
right. Flint, carrying his shield, stood on his left, and -after a poke in the
ribs from the dwarf -Tasslehoff hurried forward with the knight's spurs.

Sturm bowed his head. His long hair, already streaked with gray though he was
only in his early thirties, fell about his shoulders. He stood a moment in
silent prayer, then, at a sign from. Lord Alfred, fell reverently to his
knees.

"Sturm Brightblade." Lord Alfred declared solemnly, opening a sheet of paper
"The Knights Council, on hearing testimony given by Lauralanthalasa of the
royal family of Qualineti, and further testimony by Flint Fireforge, hill
dwarf of Solace township, has granted you Vindication from the charges brought
against you. In recognition of your deeds of bravery and courage as related by
these witnesses, you are hereby declared a Knight of Solamnia." Lord Alfred's
voice softened as he looked down upon the knight. Tears streamed unchecked
down Sturm's gaunt cheeks. "You have spent the night in prayer, Sturm
Brightblade." Alfred said quietly. "Do you consider yourself worthy of this
great honor? "

"No, my lord," Sturm answered, according to ancient ritual, "but I most humbly
accept it and vow that I shall devote my life. to making myself worthy." The
knight lifted his eyes to the sky, "With Paladines help," he said softly, "I
shall do so."

Lord Alfred had been through many such ceremonies, but could not recall such
fervent dedication in a man's face.

"I wish Tanis were here," Flint muttered gruffly to Laurana who only nodded
briefly.

She stood tall and straight, wearing armor specially made for her in Palanthas
at Lard Gunthar's command. Her honey colored hair streamed from beneath a
silver helm. Intricate gold designs glinted on her breastplate, her soft black
leather skirt-slit up the side to allow freedom of movement, bruhed the tips
of her boots. Her face was pale and grim, for the situation in Palanthas and
in the Tower itself was dark and seemingly without hope.

She could have returned to Sancrist. She had been ordered to, in fact. Lord
Gunthar had received a secret communique from Lord Alfred relating the
desperate straits the knights in and he had sent Laurana orders to cut short
her stay.

But she had chosen to remain, at least for a while, The people of Palanthas
had received her politely-she was, after all, royal blood and they were
charmed with her beauty. They were also quite interested in the dragonlance
and asked for one to exhibit in their museum. But when Laurana mentioned the
dragonarmies, they only shrugged and smiled.

Then Laurana found out from a messenger what was happening in the High
Clerist's Tawer. The knights were under siege. The dragonnarmy numbering in
the thousands waited upon the field. The knights needed the dragonlances, she
decided. and there was no one but her to take the lances to the knights and
teach them their use. She ignored Lord Gunthar's command to return to
Sancrist.

The journey from Palanthas to the Tower was nightmarish. Laurana started out
accompanying two wagons filled with meager supplies and the precious
dragonlances. The first wagon bogged down in snow only a few miles outside of
the city. Its contents were redistributed between the few knights riding
escort, Laurana and her party, and the second wagon. It, too, foundered. Time
and again they dug it out of the snow drifts until, finally, it was mired
fast. Loading the food and the lances onto their horses, the knights and
Laurana, Flint, and Tas walked the rest of the way. Theirs was the last group
to make it through. After the storm of last night, Laurana knew as did
everyone in the Tower-no more supplies would be coming. The road to Palanthas
was now impassable.

Even by strictest rationing, the knights and their footmen had food enough for
only a few days. The dragonarmies seemed prepared to wait for the rest of the
winter.

The dragonlances were taken from the weary horses who had barns them and, by
Derek's orders, were stacked in the courtyard. A few of the knights looked at
them curiously, then ignored them. The lances seemed clumsy, unwieldy weapons.

When Laurana timidly offered to instruct the knights in the use of the lances,
Derek snorted in derision. Lord Alfred stared out the window at the campfires
burning on the horizon. Laurana turned to Sturm to see her fears confirmed.

"Laurana," he said gently, taking her cold hand in his, "I don't think the
Highlord will even bother to send dragons. If we cannot reopen the supply
lines, the Tower will fall because there will be only the dead left to defend
it."

So the dragonlances lay in the courtyard, unused, forgotten, their bright
silver buried beneath the snow.


A Kenders Curiousity. The Knights ride forth.

Sturm and Flint walked the battlements the night of Sturm's knighting,
reminiscing.

"A well of pure silver-shining like a jewel-within the heart of the Dragon
Mountain," Flint said, awe his voice. "And it was from that silver Theros
forged the dragonlances."

"I should have liked-above all things-to have seen Huma's Tomb." Sturm said
quietly. Staring out at the campfires on the horizon, he stopped, resting his
hand on the ancient stone wall. Torchlight from a nearby window shone on his
thin face.

"You will", said the dwarf `When this is finished, we'll go back. Tas drew a
map-not that it's likely to be any good-"

As he grumbled on about Tas, Flint studied his other old friend with concern.
The knight's face was grave and melancholy-not unusual for Sturm. But there
was something new, a calmness about him that came not from serenity, but from
despair.

"We'll go there together." he continued, trying to forget about his hunger.
"You and Tanis and I. And the kender, too, I suppose, plus Caramon and
Raistlin. I never thought I'd miss that skinny mage, but a magic-user might be
handy now, it's just as well Caraman's not here. Can you imagine the
belly-aching we'd hear about missing a couple of meals?"

Sturm smiled absently, his thoughts far away. When he spoke it was obvious he
hadn't heard a word the dwarf said.

"Flint," he began, his voice soft and subdued, "we need only one day of warm
weather to open the road. When that day comes, take Laurana and Tas and leave.
Promise me."

"We should all leave if you ask me!" the dwarf snapped. "Pull the knights back
to Palanthas. We could hold that town against even dragons, I'll wager. Its
buildings are good solid stone. Not like this place!" The dwarf glanced around
the human-built rower with scorn. "Palanthas could be defended."

Sturm shook his head. "The people won't allow it. They cart only for their
beautiful city. As long as they think it can be saved, they won't fight. No,
we must make our stand here."

"You won't have a chance." Flint argued.

"Yes, we can" Sturm replied, "if we can just hold out until the supply lines
can be firmly established, we've got enough manpower. That's why the
dragonarmies haven't attacked-"
"There's another way." came a voice.

Sturm, and Flint turned. The torchlight fell an a gaunt face, and Sturm's
expression hardened.

"What way is that, Lord Derek?" Sturm asked with deliberate politenes.

"You and Gunthar believe you have defeated me." Derek said, ignoring the
question. His voice was soft and shaking with hatred as he stared at Sturm.
"But you haven't! By one heroic act, I will have the knights in my palm-Derek
held out his hand, the armor dashing in the firelight-"and you and Gonthar
will be finished!" Slowly, he clenched his fist.

"I was under the impression our war was out there, with the dragonarmies,"
Sturm said.

"Don't give me that self-righteous twaddle!" Derek snarled. "Enjoy your
knighthood, Brightblade. You paid enough for it. What did you promise the elf
woman in return for her lies? Marriage? Make a respectable woman of her?"

"I cannot fight you-according to the Measure-but I do not have to listen to
you insult a woman who is as good as she is courageous," Sturm said, turning
upon his heel to leave.

"Don't you ever walk away from me!" Derek cried. Leaping forward, he grabbed
Sturm's shoulder. Sturm whirled in anger, his hand on his sword. Derek reached
for his weapon as well, and it seemed for a moment that the Measure might be
forgotten. But Flint laid a restraining hand over his friend. Sturm drew a
deep breath and lifted this hand away from the hilt.

"Say what you have to say, Derek!" Sturm's voice quivered.

"You're finished, Brightblade. Tomorrow I'm leading knights onto the field. No
more skulking in this miserable prison. By tomorrow night, my name will be
legend!"

Flint looked up at Sturm in alarm. The knight's face drained of blood.
"Derek," Sturm said softly "you're mad. There are thousands of them! They'll
cut you to ribbons!"

"Yes, that's what you'd like to see, isn't it?" Derek snee "Be ready at dawn,
Brightblade."

That night, Tasslehoff-cold, hungry, and bored-decided that the best way to
take his mind off his stomach was explore his surroundings. There are plenty
of places to things here, thought Tas. This is one of the strangest building
I've ever seen.

The Tower of the High Clerist sat otidly against the west of the Nestgate
Pass, the only canyon pass, that crossed Habbakuk Flange of mountains
separating eastern Solemnia, from Palanthas. As the Dragon Higlord knew,
anyone to reach Palanthas other than by this route would have met hundreds of
miles around the mountains, or Ehro desert, or by sea. And ships entering the
Gates of Paladi are easy targets for the gnomes' fire-throwing catapults.

The High Clerist's Tower had been built during the ?Wok. Flint knew a lot
about the architecture of
xxxxx, the dwarves having been instrumental in designing and building most of
it. But they had not built or designed this Tower. In fact, Flint wondered who
had--figuring the person must have been either drunk or insane.

An outer curtain wall of stone formed an octagon as the Tower's base. Each
point of the octagonal wall was surmounted by a turret. Battlements ran along
the top of the curtain wall between turrets. A inner octagonal wall formed the
base of a series of towers and buttresses that swept gracefully upward to the
central Tower itself.

This was fairly standard design, but what puzzled the dwarf was the lack of
internal defense points. Three great steel doors breached the outer wall,
instead of one door-as would seem most reasonable, since three doors took an
incredible number of men to defend. Each door opened into a narrow courtyard
at the far end of which stood a partcullia leading directly into a huge
hallway. Each of these three hallways met in the heart of the Tower itself!

"Might as well invite the enemy inside for tea!" the dwarf had
grumbled. "Stupidest way to build a fortress I ever says."

No one entered the Tower. To the knights, it was i~a.G-i.olate.

The only one who could enter the Tower was the High Clerist himself, and since
there was no High Clerist, the knights would defend the Tower walls with their
lives, but not one of them could set foot in its sacred halls.

Originally the Tower had merely guarded the pass, not
blocked it. But the Palanthians had later built an addition to the main
structure that sealed off the pass, It was in this addition that the knights
and the footmen were living- No one even thought of entering the Tower itself.

No one except Tasslehoff.

Driven by his insatiable curiosity and his gnawing hunger, the kender made his
way along to the knights on guard duty eyed him p of the outer wall. The one
hand, their wari .IX 'gripping their swords purses in the other. But they
relaxed as soon as he passed, and Tas was able to slip down the steps into the
central courtyard. Only shadows walked down here. The torches burned, no guard
was posted.

Broad steps led up to the steel portcullis Tas padded up the stairs toward the
great yawning archway and peered eagerly through the bars. Nothing. He sighed.
The darkness beyond was so intense he might have been staring into the Abyss
itself.

Frustrated, he pushed up on the portcullis-more out of habit than hope, for
only Caramon or ten knights would have the strength necessary to raise it.

To the kender's astonishment, the portcullis began to rise, making the most
god-awful screeching! Grabbing for it, Tas dragged it slowly to a halt. The
kender looked fearfully up at the battlements, expecting to see the entire
garrison thundering down to capture him. But apparently the knights were
listening only to the growlings of their empty stomachs.

Tas turned back to the portcullis. There was a small space open between the
sharp iron spikes and the stone workspace just big enough for a kender. Tas
didn't waste any time or stop to consider the consequences. Flattening
himself, he wriggled beneath the spikes.
He found himself in a large, wide hall-nearly fifty feet across. He could see
just a short distance. There were of torches on the wall, however. After a few
jumps, Tas reach one and lit it from Flint's tinder box he found in his pouch.
Now Tas could see the gigantic hall clearly. It ran straight ahead, right into
the heart of the Tower. Strange c0Iru ' ranged along either side, like jagged
teeth. Peering behind o he sale nothing but an alcove.

The hall itself was empty. Disappointed, Tas continued walking down it, hoping
to find something interesting. He came second portcullis, already raised, much
to his chagrin. " thing easy is more trouble than it's worth," was an old
kender saying. Tas walked beneat that portcullis into a second way, narrower
than the first-only about ten feet widewith the same strange-, toothlike
columns on either side.

Why build a tower so easy to enter? Tas wondered.

Outer wall was formidable, but once past that, five dwarves could take this
place. Tas peered up. And while huge. The main hall was thirty feet high!

Perhaps the knights back in those days had been giants, kender speculated with
irteTest as he crept down the hall, , ing into open doors and pakiing into
corners.

At the end of the secornd hallway, he found a third portcullis.

This one was different from the other two, and as strange as the rest of the
Tower. This portcullis had two halves, which slid together to join in the
center. Oddest of all, there was a large hole cut right through the middle of
the doors!

Crawling through this hole, Tas found himself in a smaller room. Across from
him stood two huge steel doors. Pushing on them casually, he was startled to
find them locked. None of the portcullises had been locked. There was nothing
to protect.

Well, at least here was something to keep him occupied and make him forget
about his empty stomach. Climbing onto a stone bench, Tas stuck his torch into
a wall sconce, then began to fumble through his pouches. He finally discovered
the set of lock-picking devices that are a kenders birthright-" insult the
door's purpose by locking it?" is a favorite kender expression.

Quickly Tas selected the proper tool and set to work. The lock was simple.
There was a slight click, and Tas pocketed his tools with satisfaction as the
door swung inward. The kender stood a moment, listening carefully. He could
hear nothing. Peering inside, he could see nothing. Climbing up on the bench
again, he retrieved his torch and crept carefully through the steel doors.

Holding his torch aloft, he found himself in a great, wide, circular room. Tas
sighed. The great room was empty except for a dust covered object that
resembled an ancient fountain standing squarely in the center. This was the
end of the corridor, too, for though there were two more sets of double doors
leading out of the room, it was obvious to the kender that they only led back
up the other two giant hallways. This was the heart of the Tower. This was the
sacred place. This was what all the fuss was about.
Nothing.

Tas walked around a bit, shining his torchlight here and there. Finally the
disgruntled kender went to examine the fountain in the center of the room
before leaving.

As Tas drew closer, he saw it wasn't a fountain at all, but the dust was so
thick, he couldn't figure it out, it was about as tall as the kender, standing
four feet off the ground. Ahe round tap was supported on a slender
three-legged stand..

Tas inspected the object closely, he took a deep breath and blew as hard as he
could. Dust flew up his nose and he sneezed violently, nearly dropping the
torch. For a moment he couldn't see a thing. Then the dust settled and he
could see the object. His heart leaped into his throat.

"Oh, no!" Tas groaned. Diving into another pouch, he pulled out a handkerchief
and rubbed the object. The dust came off easily, and he knew now what it was.
"Drat!" he said in despair. "I was right. Now what do I do?"

The sun rose red the next morning, glimmering through a haze of smoke hovering
above the dragonarmies. In the courtyard of the Tower of the High Clerist, the
shadows of night hats; not yet lifted before activity began. One hundred
knight mounted their horses, adjusted the girths, called for shields, buckled
on armor, while a thousand footmen milled around searching for their proper
places in line.

Sturm, Laurana, and Lord Alfred stood in a dark door watching in silence as
Lord Derek, laughing and calling jokes to his men, rode into the courtyard.
The knight resplendent in his armor, the rose glistening on his breas in the
first rays of the sun. His men were in good spirits, thought of battle making
them forget their hunger.

"You've got to stop this, my lord." Sturm said quietly.

"I can't!" Lord Alfred said, pulling on his gloves. His was haggard in the
morning light. He had not slept since Sturm awakened him in the waning hours
of the night. "The I5I gives him the right to make this decision."

In vain had Alfred argued with Derek, trying to co him to wait just a few more
days! Already the wind was ffig to shift, bringing warm breezes from the
north.

But Derek had been adamant. He would ride out and lienge the dragonarmies in
the field. As for being outrvum he laughed in scorn. Since when do goblins
fight like Solamnia? The Knights had been outnumbered fifty to one Goblin and
Ogre wars. of the Vingaard Keep one h years. ago, and they'd routed the
creatures with ease!

"But you'll be fighting draconians," Sturm warned. Not like goblins. They are
intelligent and skilled. They have magic-users among their ranks, and their
weapons are the best in Krynn. Even in death they have the power to kill"

"I believe we can deal with them, Brightblade." Derek interrupted harshly,
"And now I suggest you make your men and tell them to make ready."

"I'm not going." Sturm said steadily. "And I'm not ordering my men to go,
either."

Derek paled with fury. For a moment he could not speak, he was so angry. Even
Lord Alfred appeared shocked.
"Sturm," Alfred began slowly, "do you know what you are doing?"

"Yes, my lord," Sturm answered. "We are the only thing standing between the
dragonarmies and Palanthas. We dare not leave this garrison unmanned. I'm
keeping my command here."

"Disobeying a direct order," Derek said, breathing heavily, "You are a
witness, Lord Alfred. I'll have his headthis time!" He stalked out- Lord
Alfred, his fate grim, Sturm alone, frollowed, leaving. In the end, Sturm had
given his men a choice. They could stay with him at no risk to
themselves--since they were simply obeying the orders of their commanding
officer-or they could accompany Derek. It was, he mentioned, the same choice
Vinas 5olamnus had given his men long ago, when the Knights rebelled against
the corrupt Emperor of Ergoth. The men did not need to be reminded of this
legend. They saw it as a sign
and, as with Solamnus, most of them chose to stay with the commander they had
come to respect and admire.

Now they stood watching, their faces grim as their friends prepared to ride
out. It was the first, open break in the long history of the Knighthood, and
the moment was grievous.

"Reconsider, Sturm; " Lord Alfred said as the knight helped him mount his
horse. "Lord Derek is right. The dragonarmies obi not been trained, not like
the your knights. There`s every paoby we'll routes them with barely a blow
being struck'

"I pray that is true, my lord", Sturm said steadily.

Alfred regarded him sadly. "If it is true, Brightblade, Derek will see you
tried and executed for this, There'll be nothing Gunthar can do to stop him."

"I would willingly die that death my lord; if it would stop what I fear will
happen." Sturm replied.

"Damn at, man!" Lord Alfred exploded. "If we are defeated, what will you gain
by staying here? You couldn't hold off an army of gully dwarves with your
small contingent of men! Suppose the roads do open up? You won't be able to
hold the Tower long enough for Palanthas to send reinforcements."

"At the least we can buy Palanthas time to evacuate her citizens, if-"

Lord Derek Crownguard edged his horse between those of his men. Glaring down
at Sturm, his eyes glittering from behind the slits in his helm, Lord Derek
raised his hand for silence.

"According to the Measure, Sturm Brightblade," Derek began formally, "I hereby
charge you with conspiracy and-"

"To the Abyss with the Measure!" Sturm snarled, his patience snagging. "Where
has the Measure gotten us? Divided, jealous, crazed! Even our own people
prefer to treat with the armies of our enemies! The Measure has failed!"

A deathly hush settled over the knights in the courtyard, brakes only by the
restless pawing of a horse or the jingle of armor as here and there a man
shifted in his saddle.

"Pray for my death, Sturm Brightblade." Derek said softly, "or by the gods
I'll slit your throat at your execution myself!" Without another word, he
wheeled his horse around and centered to the head of the column.

"Open the gates!" he called.

The morning sun climbed above the smoke, rising into the blue sky. The winds
blew from the north, fluttering the flag flying bravely from the bog of the
Tower. Armor flashed. There was a clatter of swords against shields and the
sound of a trumpet call as men rushed to open the thick wooden gates.
Derek raised his sword high in the air. Lifting his voice in the knight's
salute to the enemy, he galloped forward. The knights behind him picked up his
ringing challenge and rode forth out onto the fields where-long ago-Huma had
ridden to glorious victory. The footmen marched, their footsteps beating a
tattoo, upon the stone pavement. For a moment, lord Alfred seemed about to
speak to Sturm and the young krnights who stood, watching. But he only shook
his head and rode away...

The gates swung shut behind him. The heavy iron bar was dropped down to lock
them securely. The men in Sturm's command ran to the battlements to watch.

Sturm stood silently in the center of the courtyard, his gaunt face
expressionless.

The young and handsome commander of the dragonarmies in the Dark Lady's
absence was just waking to breakfast and the start of another boring day when
a scout galloped into camp.

Commander Bakaris glared at the scout in disgust. The man was riding through
camp wildly, his horse scattering cooking pots and goblins. Draconian guards
leaped to their feet, shaking their fists and cursing. But the scout ignored
them.

"The Highlord!" he called, sliding off his horse in front of the tent. "I must
see the Highlord"

"The Highlord's gone," said the commander's aide.

"I'm in charge," snapped Bakaris. "What's your business?"

The ranger looked around quickly, not wanting to make a mistake. But there was
no sign of the dread Dark Lady or the big blue dragon she rode.
"The Knights have taken the field!"

"What!" The commander's jaw sagged. "Are you certain?"

"Yes!" The scout was practically incoherent. "Saw them! Hundreds on horseback!
Javelins, swords. A thousand foot."

"She was right!" Bakaris swore softly to himself in admiration. "The fools
have made their mistake!"

Calling for his servants, he hurried back to his tent. "Sound the alarm." he
ordered, rattling off instructions. "Have the captains here in five minutes
for final orders." His hands shook in eagerness as he strapped on his armor.
"And send the wyvern to Flotsam with word for the Highlord."

Goblin servants ran off in all directions, and soon blaring horn calls were
echoing throughout the camp. The commander cast one last, quirk glance at the
map on his table, then left to meet with his officers.

"Too bad," he reflected coolly as he walked away. "The fight will probably be
over by the time she gets the news. A pity. She would have wanted to be
present at the fall of the High Clerist's Tower. Still," he reflected,
"perhaps tomorrow night we'll sleep in Palanthas-she and I."


Chapter I2
Death on the plains. Tasslehof's discovery.
The sun climbed high in the sky, The knights stood upon the battlements of the
Tower, staring out across the plains until their eyes ached. All they could
see was a great tide of black, crawling, figures swarming over the fields,
rally to engulf the slender spear of gleaming silver that advanced steadily to
meet it.

The armies met. The knights strained to see, but a misty graveil crept across
the land. The air became tainted with a foot smell, like hot iron. The dust
grew thicker, almost totally obscuring the sun.

Now they could see nothing. The Tower seemed afloat on a sea of fog. The heavy
mist even deadened sound, for at first they heard the clash of weapons and the
cries of the dying, But even that faded, and all was silent.

The day wore on. Laurana, pacing restlessly in her darkening chamber, lit
candles that sputtered and flickered in the foul air. The kender sat with her.
Looking down from her tower window, Laurana could see Sturm and Flint,
standing on the battlements below her, reflected in ghostly torchlight.

A servant brought her the bit of maggoty bread and dried meat that was her
ration for the day. It must be only midafternoan, she realized. Then movement
down on the battlements caught her attention. She saw a man dressed in
mud-splattered leather approach Sturm. A messenger, she thought. Hurriedly,
she began to strap on her armor.

"Coming?" she asked Tas, thinking suddenly that the kender had been awfully
quiet. "A messenger's arrived from Palanthas!"

"I guess." Tas said without interest.

Laurana frowned, hoping he wasn't growing weak from lack of food. But Tas
shook his head at her concern.

"I'm all right," he mumbled. "Just this stupid gray air."

Laurana forget about him as she hurried down the stairs.

"News?" she asked Sturm, who peered over the walls in a vain effort to see out
onto the field of battle. "I saw the messenger-"

"Uh, yes." He smiled wearily. "Good news, I suppose. The road to Palanthas is
open. The snow melted enough to get through. I have a rider standing by to
take a message to Palanthas in case we are def-" He stopped abruptly, then
drew a deep breath. "I want you to be ready to go back to Palanthas with him."

Laurana had been expecting this and her answer was prepared. But now that the
time had come for her speech, she could not give it. The bitter air dried her
mouth, her tongue seemed swollen. No, that wasn't it, she chided herself. She
was frightened. Admit it. She wanted to go back to Palanthas! She wanted to
get out of this gripe place where death lurked in the shadows. Clenching her
fist, she beat her gloved hand nervously on the stone, gathering her courage.

"I'm staying here, Sturm." she said. After pausing to get her voice under
control, she continued, "I know what you're going to say, so listen to me
first. You're going to need all the skilled fighters you can get. You know my
worth."

Sturm nodded. What she said was true. There were few in his command more
accurate with a bow. She was a trained swordsman, as well. She was
battle-tested-something he couldn't say about many of the young knights under
his command. So he nodded in agreement. He meant to send her away anyhow.

"I am the only one trained to use the dragonlance-"

"Flint's been trained," Sturm interrupted quietly.

Laurana fixed the dwarf with a penetrating stare. Caught between two people he
loved and admired, Flint flushed and cleared his throat. "That's true." he
said huskily, "but-I-uh- I must admit-er, Sturm, that I am a bit short."

"We've seen no sign of dragons, anyhow," Sturm said as, Laurana flashed him a
triumphant glance. "The reports say they're south of -us, lighting for control
of Thelgaard."

"But you believe the dragons are on the way don't you?" Laurana returned.

Sturm appeared uncomfortable. "Perhaps," he muttered.

"You can't lie Sturm, so don't start now. I'm staying. This is what Tanis
would do-"

"Damn it, Laurana!" Sturm said, his face flushed. "Live your own life. You
can't be Tanis! I can't be Tanis! He isn't here. We've got to face that!" The
knight turned away suddenly. "He isn't here," he repeated harshly.

Flint sighed, glancing sorrowfully at Laurana. No-one noticed Tasslehoff, who
sat huddled miserably in a corner.

Laurana. put her arm around Sturm. "I knave I'm not. friend Tanis is to you,
Storm. I can never take his place. But do my best to help you. That's what I
meant. You don't
treat me any differently from your knights."

"I know, Laurana," Sturm said. Putting his arms around her he held her close.

"I'm sorry I snapped at you Sturm."

"And you know why I must send you away. Tanis would not forgive me if anything
happened to you."

"Yes, he would," Laurana answered softly. "He wouId upstand. He told me once
that there comes a time when you've to risk your life for something that means
more than life itself. Don't you see, Sturm? If I fled to safety, leaving my
friends behind, he would say he understood. But, deep inside, he wouldn't.
Because it is so far from what he would do himself. Besides"-she smiled-"even
if there were no Tanis in this world, I still could not leave my friends."

Sturm looked into her eyes and saw that no words of his would make any
difference. Silently, he held her close. His other arm went around Flint's
shoulder and drew the dwarf near.

Tasslehoff, bursting into tears, stood up and flung himself on them, sobbing
wildly. They stared at him in astonishment.

"Tas, what is it?" Laurana asked, alarmed.

"It's at my fault! I broke one! Am I doomed to go around the world breaking
these things?" Tas wailed incoherently.

"Calm down." Sturm said, his voice stern, He gave the kender a shake. "What
are you talking about?"

"I found another one," Tas blubbered. "Down below, in a big empty chamber."

"Another what, you doorknob?" Flint said in exasperation.

"Another dragon orb!" Tas wailed.

Night settled over the Tower like a thicker, heavier fog. The knights Iighted
torches, but the flame only peopled the darkness with ghosts. The knights kept
silent watch from the battlements, straining to hear or see
something--anything.

Then, When it was nearly midnight, they were startled to hear, not the
victorious shouts of their comrades or the flat, blaring horns of the enemy,
but the jingle of harness, the soft whinny of horses approaching the fortress.

Rushing to the edge of the battlements the knights shone torches down into the
fog. They heard the hootbeats slowly
came to a halt.

Sturm stood above the gate "Who rides to the Tower of the High Clerist?' he
called.

A single torch flared below. Laurana, staring dawn into the misty darkness,
felt her knees grow weak and grabbed the stone wall to support herself. The
knights cried out in horror.

The rider who held the flaming torch was dressed in the shining armor of an
officer in the dragonarmy 4tLlreg ~mf~cnr...,.
HefC
Was blonde, III5 cold, and cruel.

He led a second horse across which were thrown two bodies-one of them
headless, both bloody, mutilated.

"I have brought back your officers," the man said, his voice harsh and
blaring. "One is quite dead, as you can see. The other, I believe, still
lives. Or he did when I started on my journey. I hope he is still living, so
that he can recount for you what took place upon the field of battle today. If
you could even call it a battle."

Bathed in the glare of his own torch, the officer dismounted. He began to
untie the bodies, using one hand to strip away the ropes binding them to the
saddle. Then he glanced up.

"Yes, you could kill me now. I am a fine target, even in this fog. But you
wont. You're Knights of Solamnia,"-his sarcasm was sharp-"your honor is your
life. You wouldn't shoot an unarmed man returning the bodies of your leaders."
He gave the ropes a yank. The headless body slid to the ground. The officer
dragged the other body off the saddle. He tossed the torch down into the snow
next to the bodies. It sizzled, then went out, and the darkness swallowed him.

"You have a surfeit of honor out there on the field," he called. The knights
could hear the leather creak, his armor clang as he remounted his horse. "I'll
give you until morning to surrender, When the sun rises, lower your flag. The
Dragon Highlord will deal with you mercifully-"

Suddenly there was the twang of a bow, the thunk of an arrow striking into
flesh, and the sound of startled swearing from below them. The knights turned
around to stare in astonishment at a lone figure standing an the wall, a bow
in its hand.

"I am not a knight," Laurana called out, lowering her bow. "I am
Lauralanthalasa, -daughter of the Qualinesti. We elves have our own code of
honor and as I'm sure you know, I can see you quite well in this darkness. l
could have killed you. As it is, I believe you will have some difficulty using
that arm. For a long time. In fact, you may never hold a sword; again."

"Take that as our answer to your Highlord." Sturm said harshly. "We will lie
cold in death before we lower our flag!"

"Indeed you will" the officer said through teeth clenched pain. The sound of
galloping hooves was lost in the darkness.

"Bring in the bodes," Sturm ordered.
Cautiously the knights opened the gates. Several rushed to cover the others
who gently lifted the bodies and bore them inside. Then the guard retreated
back into the fortress and bolted the gates behind them.

Sturm knelt in the snow beside the body of the headless knight. Lifting the
man's hand, he removed a ring from the stiff, cold fingers. The knight's armor
was battered and black with blood. Dropping the lifeless hand back into the
snow, Sturm bowed his head. "Lord Alfred." he said tonelessly.

"Sir," said one of the young knights, "the other is Lord Derek. The foul
dragon officer was right-he is still alive."

Sturm rose and walked over to where Derek lay on the cold stone. The lord's
face was white his eyes wide and glittering feverishly. Blood caked his lips,
his skin was clammy. One of the young knights supporting him held a cup of
water to his lips, but Derek could not drink.

Sick with horror, Sturm saw Derek's hand was pressed over his stomach, where
his life's blood was yelling out, but not fast enough to end the agonizing
pain. Giving a ghastly smile, Derek clutched Sturm's arm with a bloody hand.

"Victory!" he croaked. "They ran before us and we pursued! It was glorious,
glorious! And I-I will be Grand Master!" He choked and blood spewed from his
mouth as he fell back into the arms of the young knight, who looked up at
Sturm, his youthful face hopeful.

"Do you suppose he's right, sir? Maybe that was a ruse-"
His voice died at the sight of Sturm's grim face, and he looked back at Derek
with pity. "He's mad, isn't he, sir?"

"He's dying-bravely-like a true knight," Sturm said.

"'Victory!" Derek whispered, then his, eyes fixed in his head and he gazed
sightlessly into the fog.

"No, you mustn't break it," said Laurana.

"But Fizban said-"

"I know what he said," Laurana replied impatiently. "It isn't eail, it isn't
good, it's not anything, it's everything. That"-she muttered-"is so like
Fizban!"

She and Tas stand in front of the dragon orb. The orb rested on its stand in
the center of the round room, still covered with dust except for the spot Tas
had rubbed ream. The room was dark and eerily silent, so quiet, in fact, that
Tas and Laurana felt compelled to whisper.

Laurana stared at the orb, her brow creased in thought. Tas stared at Laurana
unhappily, afraid he knew what she was thinking.

"These orbs have to work, Tas!" Laurana said finally. "They were created by
powerful magic-users! People like Raistlin who do not tolerate failure. If
only we knew how-"

"I know how." Tas said in a broken whisper.

"What?" Laurana asked. "You know! Why didn't you-"

"I didn't know I knew-so to speak," Tas stammered. "It just came to me.
Gnosh-the gnome-told me that he discovered writing inside the orb, letters
that swirled around in the mist. He couldn't read them, he said, because they
were written in some sort of strange language-"

"The language of magic."

"Yes, that's what I said and-"

"But that won't help us! We can't either of us speak it. If only Raistlin-"

"We don't need Raistlin," Tas interrupted- "I can't speak it, but I can read
it. You see, I have these glasses-glasses of true seeing, Raistlin called
them. They let me read languages-even the language of magic. I know because he
said if he caught me reading any of his scrolls he'd turn me into a cricket
and swallow me whole."

"And you think you can read the orb?"

"I can try," Tas hedged, "but, Laurana, Sturm said there probably wouldn't be
any dragons. Why should we risk even bath sting with the orb? Fizban said only
the most powerful magic-users dared use it,"

"Listen to me, Tasslehoff Burrfoot." Laurana said softly kneeling down beside
the kender and staring him straight in the eye. "If they bring even one dragon
here, we're finished. That's why they gave us time to surrender instead of
just storming the place They're using the extra time to bring in dragons. We
must take this chance!"

"A dark path and a light path Tasslehoff remembered Fizban's words and hung
his head. Death of those you love, beyond have the courage.

Slowly Tas reached into the post of his fleecy vest, pulled over the glasses,
and fit the wire frames over his pointed ears.

The sun rises. Darkness descends.

The fog lifted with the coming of morning. The day dawned bright and clear-so
clear that Sturm, walking the battlements, could see the snow-covered
grasslands of his birthplace near Vingaard Keep-lands now completely
controlled by the dragonarmies. The sun's first rays
struck the flag of the Knights-kingfisher beneath a golden crown, holding a
sword decorated with a rose in his claws. The golden emblem glittered in the
morning light. Then Sturm heard the harsh, blaring horns.
The dragonarmies marched upon the Tower at dawn.

The young knights-the hundred or so that were left-stood silently on the
battlements watching as the vast army crawled across the land with the
inexorability of devouring insects. At first Sturm had wondered about the
knight's dying words. "They ran before us!" Why had the draganarmy run? Then
it became clear to him-the dragonmen had used the knights own vain glory
against them in an ancient, yet simple, maneuver. Fall back before your
enemy... not too fast, just let the front lines show enough fear and terror to
be believable. Let them seem to break in panic, Then let your enemy charge
after you, overextending his lines. And let your armies close in, surround
him, and cut hire to shreds.

It didn't need the sight of the bodies-barely visible in the distant trampled,
bloody snow-to tell Sturm he had judged correctly. They lay where they had
tried desperately to regroup for a final stand. Not that it mattered how they
died. He wondered who would look on his body when it was all over.

Flint peered out from a crack in the wall. "At least I'll die dry land." the
dwarf muttered.

Sturm smiled slightly, stroking his moustaches. His eyes went to the east. As
he thought about dying, he looked up the land where he'd been born -a home he
had barely known, a father he barely remembered, a country that had driven his
family into exile. He was about to give his life to defend that country. Why?
Why didn't he just leave and go back to Palanthas?

All of his life he had followed the Code and the Measure.

Code: Est Suiax'us oth Mithas-My Honor Is My Life. The Code was all he had
left. The Measure was gone. It was Rigid, inflexible, the Measure had encased
the Knights in heavier than their armor. The Knights, isolated, Eigl-.tingta_
vive, had dung to the Measure in despair-not realizing twas dal anchor,
weighing them down..

Why was I different? Sturm wondered. But he knew the answer, even as he
listened to the dwarf grumble. It's because of the dwarf, the kender, the
mage, the half-elf.
They had taught him to see the world through other, slanted eyes, smaller
eyes, even hourglass eyes. Derek saw the world in stark black and white. Sturm
had the world in all its radiant colors, in all its bleak grays.

"It's time," he said to Flint. The two descended from the high lookout point
just as the first of the enemy's poison-tipped arrows arched over the walls.

With shrieks and yells the blaring of horns, and clashing of shield and sword,
the dragonarmies struck the Tower of the High Clerist as the sun's brittle
light filled the sky.

By nightfall, the flag still flew. The Tower stood. But half its defenders
were dead.

The living had no time during the day to shut the staring eyes or compose the
contorted, agonised limbs, The living had all they could do to stay alive.
Peace came at last with the night, as the dragonarmies withdrew to rest and
wait for the morrow.

Sturm paced the battlements, his body aching with weariness. Yet every time he
tried to rest taut muscles twitched and danced, his brain seemed an fire. And
so he was driven to pace again-back and forth, back and forth with slow,
measured tread. He could not know that his steady pace drove the day's horrors
from the thoughts of the young knights who listened.

Knights in the courtyard, laying out the bodies of friends and comrades,
thinking that tomorrow someone might be doing this for them, heard Sturm's
steady pacing and felt their fears for tomorrow eased.

The ringing sound of the knight's footfalls brought comfort to everyone, in
fact; except to the knight himself. Sturm's thoughts were dark and tormented:
thoughts of defeat; thoughts of dying ignobly; without honor; tortured
memories of the dream, seeing his body harked and mutilated by the foul
creatures camped beyond. Would the dream came true? he wondered, shivering.
Would he falter at the end, unable to conquer fear? Would the Code fail him,
as had the Measure?

Step. . . step . . step . . . step

Stop this! Sturm told himself angrily. You'll soon be mad as pour Derek.
Spinning abruptly on his heel to break his stride, the knight turned to find
Laurana behind him. His eyes met hers, and the black thoughts were brightened
by her light. As long as such peace and beauty as hers existed in this world
there was hope, he smiled at her and she smiled back.-a strained smile-but it
erased lines of fatigue surd wogry in her face.

"Rest," he told her. "You look exhausted."

"I tried to sleep," she murmured, "but I had terrible dreams hands encased in
crystal, huge dragons flying through stone hallways" She shook her head, then
sat down, exhausted, in a corner sheltered from the chill wind.

Sturm's gaze moved to Tasslehoff, who lay beside her. The kender was fast
asleep, curled into a ball. Sturm looked at him with a smile. Nothing bothered
Tas. The kender had a truly glorious day-one that would live in his memory
forever.

"I've never been at a siege before," Sturm had heard Tas confide to Flint just
seconds before the dwarf's battle-axe swept off a goblin's head.

"You know were all going to die," Flint growled, wiping black blood from his
axe blade.

"That's what you said when we faced that black dragon in, Xak Tsaaoth," Tas
replied. "Then you said the same thing. Thorbardin; and then there was the
boat-"

"This time we're going to die!" Flint roared in a rage. "lf have to kill you
myself!"

But they hadn't died-at least not today. There's always tomorrow, Sturm
thought, his gaze resting on the dwarf leaned against a stone wall, carving at
a block of wood.

Flint looked up. "When will it start?" he asked.

Sturm sighed, has gaze shifting out to the eastern "Dawn," he replied. "A few
hours yet."

The dwarf nodded. "Can we hold?" His voice was matter fact, the hand that held
the wood firm and steady.
"We must," Sturm replied. "The messenger will reach Palanthas tonight. If they
act at once, there is still a two-day march reach us we must give them two
days-"

"If they act at once!" Flint grunted.

"I know . . ," Sturm said softly, sighing. "You should rest." he turned to
Laurana, who came out of her reverie witha s! "Go to Palanthas. Convince them
of the danger."

"Your messenger must do that" Laurana said tiredly. "If no words of mine will
sway them."

"Laurana." he began.

"Do grow geed me" she asked abruptly. "Am I of use."

"You know you are," Sturm answered. He had the elfmaid's unflagging strength,
her courage, and her with the bar.

"Then I'm staying," Laurana said simply. Drawing the blanket around her, she
closed her eyes. "I can't sleep, she whispered. But within a few moments
kender's.

Sturm shook his head, swallowing a choking thickness in his throat. His glance
met Flint's. The dwarf sighed and went back to his carving, Neither spoke,
both men thinking the same thing. Their deaths would be bad if the draconians
overran the Tower. Laurana's death could be a thing of nightmares.

The eastern sky was brightening, foretelling the sun's approach, when the
knights were roused from their fitful slumber by the blaring of horns. Hastily
they rose, grabbed their weapons, and stood to the walls, peering out across
the dark land-

The campfires of the dragonarmies burred low, allowed to go out as daylight
neared. They could hear the sounds of life returning to the horrible body. The
knights gripped their weapons, wading, Then they turned to each other,
bewildered.

The dragonarmies were retreating! Although only dimly seen in the faint
halflight, it was obvious that the black tide was slowly withdrawing. Sturm
watched puzzled. The armies moved back, just over the horizon. But they were
still out there, Sturm knew, He sensed them.

Some of the younger knights began to cheer.

"Keep quiet!" Sturrn commanded harshly, Their shouts grated an his raw nerves.
Laurana came to stand beside him and glanced at him in astonishment. His face
was gray and haggard in the flickering torchlight. His gloved fists, resting
atop the battle-rents, clenched and unclenched nervously. His eyes narrowed as
he leaned forward staring eastward.

Laurana, sensing the rising fear within him, felt her own body grow   chill. She
remembered what she had told Tas. "Is it what we feared" she asked,   her hand
an his arm. "Say we are wrong!" he spoke softly in a broker; voice.   Minutes
passed. Nothing happened. Flint came to join them, climbing up on a   huge slab
of broken stone to see over the
edge of the wall. Tas woke, yawning. "When's breakfast?" the kender   inquired
cheerfully, but no one paid any attention to him.
Still they watched and waited. Now all the knights, each of them feeling the
same rising fear, lined the walls, staring eastward without any clear idea
why. "What is it?" Tas whispered. Climbing up to stand beside Flint, he saw
the small red sliver of sun burning on the horizon, its orange fire turning
the night sky purple, dimming the stars. "What are we looking at?" Tas
whispered, nudging Flint.

"Nothing" Flint grumbled.

"Then why are we looking-" The kender caught his breath with a sharp gulp.
"Sturm" he quavered.

"What is it?" the knight demanded, turning in alarm. Tas kept staring. The
rest followed his gaze, but their eyes were no match for the kender's.

 "Dragons . . ." Tasslehoff replied. "Blue dragons."

"I thought as much." Sturm said softly. "The dragonfear. That's why they
pulled the armies back. The humans fighting among them could not withstand it.
How many dragons?"

"Three," answered Laurana. "I can see them now."

"Three," Sturm repeated, his voice empty, expressionless.

 "Listen, Sturm-" Laurana dragged him back away from the wall. I-we-weren't
going to say anything. It might not have mattered, but it does now. Tasslehoff
and I know how to use the dragon orb!"

"Dragon orb?" Sturm muttered, not really listening.

"The orb here, Sturm!" Laurana persisted, her hands clutching him eagerly.
"The one below the Towe,. in the very center. Tas showed it to me. Three long,
wide hallways lead to it and-I and-" Her voice died. Suddenly she saw vividly,
as her subconscioushad seen during the night, dragons flying down sion halls
.
"Sturm!" she shouted, shaking him in her excitement, "I know how the orb
works! I know how to kill the dragons, Now, if we just have the time-"

Sturm, caught, held of her, his strong hands grasping her the shoulders. In
all the months he flail known her, Hle could recall seeing her more beautiful.
Her face pale with wearing was alight with excitement.

"Tell me, quickly,"' he ordered.

Laurana explained, her words falling over themselves as she painted a picture
to him that became clearer as her as talked. Flint and Tas watched from behind
Sturm, the dwarf's face aghast, the kender's face filled with consternation.

"Who'll use the orb?" Sturm asked slowly.

"I will," Laurana replied.

"But, Laurana," Tasslehoff cried, "Fizban said-"

"Tas, shut up!" Laurana said through clenched teeth. "Please, Sturm!" she
urged. "It's our only hope. We have the dragonlances-and the dragon orb!"

The knight looked at her, then toward the dragons speeding out of the
ever-brightening east.
"Very well." he said finally. "Flint, you and Tas go down and gather the men
together in the center courtyard. Hurry!"

Tasslehoff, giving Laurana a last, troubled glance, jumped down from the rock
where he and the dwarf had been standing. Flint came after him more slowly,
his face somber and thoughtful. Reaching the ground, he walked up to Sturm.

"Must you?" Flint asked Sturm silently, as their eyes met.

Sturm nodded once. Glancing at Laurana, he smiled sadly. "I'll tell her," he
said softly. "Take care of the kender. Good-bye, my friend."

Flint swallowed, shaking his old head. Then, his face a mask of sorrow, the
dwarf brushed his gnarled hand across his eyes and gave Tas a shove in the
back. "Get moving!" the dwarf snapped.

Tas turned to look at him do astonishment, then shrugged and ran skipping
along the top of the battlements, his shrill voice shouting out to the
startled knights.

Laurana's face glowed. "You come, too, Sturml" she said, tugging at him like a
child eager to show a parent a new toy. "I'll explain this to the men if you
want. Then you can give the orders and arrange the battle disposition-"

"You're in command, Laurana," Sturm said.

"What?" Laurana stopped, fear replacing the hope in her heart so suddenly the
pain made her gasp.

"You said you needed time." Sturm said, adjusting his swordbelt, avoiding her
eyes. "You're right. You must get the men in position. You must have time to
use the orb. I will gain you that time." He picked up a bow and aquiver of
arrows.

"No! Sturm! " Laurana shivered with terror. 'You can't mean this! I can't
command! I need you! Sturm, don't -do this to yourself!" Her voice died to a
whisper, "Don't do this to me!"

"You can command, Laurana," Sturm said, taking her head in his hands. Leaning
forward, he kissed her gently. "Farewell, elfmaid," he said softly. "Your
light will shine in this world. It is time for mine to darken. Don't grieve,
dear one. Don't cry." He held her close. "The Forestmaster said to us, in
Darken Wood, that we should not mourn those who have fulfilled their destiny.
Mine is fulfilled. Now, hurry, Laurana. You'll need every second."

"At least take the dragonlance with you," she begged.

Sturm shook his head, his hand on the antique sword of his father. "I don't
know how to use it. Good-bye, Laurana. Tell Tanis-" He stopped, then he
sighed. "No." he said with a slight smile. "He will know what was in my
heart."

"Sturm," Laurana's tears choked her into silence. She could only stare at him
in mute appeal.

"Go," he said.

Stumbling blindly, Laurana turned around and somehow made her way down the
stairs to the courtyard below. Here she felt a strong, hand grasp hers.
"Flint." she began, sobbing painfully, "he, Sturm . . ."

"I know, Laurana," the dwarf replied. "I saw it in his face. I think I've seen
it there for as long as I can remember. It's up to you now. You can't fail
him."

Laurana drew a deep breath, then wiped her eyes with her hands, cleaning her
tear-streaked face as best she could. Taking another breath, she lifted her
head,
"There." she said, keeping her voice firm and steady. "I'm, ready. Where's
Tas?"

"Here," said a small voice.

"Go on down. You read the words in the orb once before. -i heed them again.
Make absolutely certain you've got it right"

"Yes, Laurana." Tas gulped and ran off.

"The knights are assembled,'" Flint said. "Waiting your command."

"Waiting my command'," Laurana repeated absently. Hesitating, she looked up.
The red rays of the sun flashed off Sturm's bight armor as the knight climbed
the narrow sk ' that led to high wall near the central Tower- Sighing. she
lowered her gaze to the courtyard where the knights waited.

Laurana drew another deep breath, then walked toward them, the red crest
fluttering from her helmet, her golden hair flaming in the morning light.

The cold and brittle sun stained the sky blood red, deepening into the velvet
blue-blackness of receding night. The Tower stood in shadow still, though the
sun's rays sparkled off the golden threads in the fluttering flag.

Sturm reached the top of the wall. The Tower soared above him. The parapet
Storm stood upon extended a hundred feet or more to his left, Its stone
surface was smooth, providing no shelter, no cover.

Looking east, Sturm saw the dragons.

They were blue dragons, and on the back of the lead dragon in the formation
sat a Dragon Highlord, the blue-black draganscale armor gleaming in the
sunlight. He could see the hideous horned mask, the black cape fluttering
behind. Two other blue dragons with riders followed the Dragon Highlord. Sturm
gave them a brief, perfunctory glance. They did not concern him. His battle
was with the leader, the Highlord.

The knight looked into the courtyard far below him. Sunlight was just climbing
the walls. Sturm saw it flicker at off the tips of the silver dragonlances
that each man held now in his hand. He saw it burn on Laurana's golden hair.
He saw the men look up at him. Grasping his sword; he raised it into the air.
Sunlight trashed from the ornately carved blade.

Smiling up at him, though she could barely see him through her tears. Laurana
raised her dragonlance into the air in answer-in good-bye.

Comforted by her smile. Sturm turned back to face his enemy.

Walking to the center of the wall, he seemed a small figure poised halfway
between land and sky. The dragons could fly past him or circle around him, but
that wasn't what he wanted. They must see him as a threat. They must take time
to fight him.

Sheathing his sword, Sturm fit an arrow to his bow and took careful aim at the
lead dragon. Patiently he waited, holding his breath. I can not waste this, he
thought. Wait . . , wait...

The dragon was in range. Sturm's arrow sped through the morning brilliance.
His aim was true. The arrow struck the blue dragon in the neck. It did little
damage, bouncing off the dragon's blue scales, but the dragon reared its head
in pain and irritation-slowing its flight. Quickly Sturm fired again, this
time at the dragon flying directly behind the leader.

The arrow tore into a wing, and the dragon shrieked in rage. Sturm fired once
more. This time the lead dragon's rider steered it clear. But the knight had
accomplished what he set out to do capture their attention, prove he was a
threat, force them to fight him. He could hear the sound of running footsteps
in the courtyard and the shrill squeak of the winches raising the
portcullises.

Now Sturm could   see the Dragon Highlord rise to his feet in the saddle. Built
like a chariot,   the saddle could accommodate its rider in a standing position
for battle. The   Highlord carried a spear in his gloved hand. Sturm dropped his
bow. Picking up   his shield and drawing his sword, he stood upon the wall,
watching as the   dragon flew closer and closer, its red eyes flaring, its white
teeth gleaming.

Then-far away-Sturm heard the clear, clarion call of a trumpet, its music cold
as the air from the snow-covered mouetains of his homeland in the distance.
Pure and crisp, the trumpet call pierced his heart, rising bravely above the
darkness death and despair that surrounded him.

Sturm answered the call with a wild battle-cry, raising sword to meet his
enemy. The sunlight flashed red on his blade. The dragon swooped in low.
Again the trumpet sounded, and again Sturm answered, voice rising in a shout.
But this time his voice faltered, for suddenly Sturm realized he had heard
this trumpet before.

The dream!

Sturm stopped, gripping his sword in a hand that wars ing inside its glove.
The dragon loomed above him. Astride dragon was the Highlord, the horns of his
mask nieke ' blood-red, his spear poised. and ready.

Fear knotted Sturm's stomach, his skin grew cold. The call sounded a third
tune. It had sounded three timies in dream, and after the third call he had
fallen. The drag was overwhelming him.. Escape!'. his brain screamed. -

Escape! The dragons would swoop into the courtyard - the knights could not be
ready yet, they would die, Laurana, Flint, and Tas .... The Tower would fall.

No! Sturm got hold of himself. Everything else was gone: his ideals, his
hopes, his dreams. The Knighthood was collapsing. The Measure had been found
wanting. Everything in his life was meaningless. His death must not be so. He
would buy Laurana time, buy it with his life, since that was all he had to
give. And he would die according to the Code, since that was all he had to
cling to.

Raising his sword in the air, he gave the knight's salute to an enemy. To his
surprise, it was returned with grave dignity by the Dragon Highlord. Then the
dragon dove, its jaws open, prepared to slash the knight apart with its
razor-sharp teeth. Sturm swung his sword do a vicious arc, forcing the dragon
to rear its head back or risk decapitation. Sturm hoped to disrupt its flight.
But the creature's wings held it steady, its rider guiding it with a sure hand
while holding the gleaming-tipped spear in the other.

Sturm faced east. Half-blinded by the sun's brilliance, Sturm saw the dragon
as a thing of blackness. He saw the creature dip in its flight, diving below
the level of the wall, and he realized the blue was going to came up frown
beneath, giving its rider the room needed to attack. The other two dragon.
riders held back, watching, waiting to see if their lord required help
finishing this insolent knight.

For a moment the sun-drenched sky was empty, then the dragon burst up over the
edge of the wall, its horrifying scream splitting Sturm's eardrums, filling
his head with pain. The breath from its gaping mouth gagged him, He staggered
dizzily but managed to keep his feet as he slashed out with his sword.

The ancient blade struck the dragon's left nostril. Black. blood spurted into
the air. The dragon roared in fury.

But the blow was costly. Sturm had no time to recover.

The Dragon Highlord raised his spear, its tip flaming in the sun- Leaning
down, he thrust it deep, piercing through armor, flesh, and bone. Sturm's sun
shattered.


Dragan orb. Dragonlance.

The knights surged past Laurana into the High Clerist's Tower, taking their
places where had told them. Although at first skeptical, hope dawned as
Laurana explained her plan.

The Courtyard was empty after the knights departure.

Laurana knew she should hurry. already she should be with Tas , preparing
herself to use the dragon orb. But Laurana coud not leave that gleaming,
solitary figure standing all waiting-upon the wall.

Then, silhouetted in the rising sun, she sate" the dra~gQ~
Sword and spear flashed in the brilliant sunlight.

Laurana's world stopped turning. Time slowed to a dream.

The sword drew blood. The dragon screamed. The spear held poised far on
eternity. The sun stood still.

The spear struck.

A glittering abject fell slowly from the top of the wall into the courtyard.
The object was Sturm's sword, dropped from his lifeless hand, and it was-to
Laurana-the only movement in a static world. The knight's body stood still,
impaled upon the spear of the Dragon Highland. The dragon hovered above, its
wings poised. Nothing mowed, everything held perfectly still.

Then the Highlord jerked the spear free and Sturm's body crumpled where he
stood, a dark mass against the sun. The dragon roared in outrage and a bolt of
lightning streaked from the blue's blood-frothed mouth and struck the High
Clerist's Tower. With a booming explosion, the stone burst apart. Flames
flared, brighter than the sun. The other two dragons dove for the courtyard as
Sturm's sword clattered to the pavement with a ringing sound.

Time began.

Laurana saw the dragons diving at her. The ground around her shook as stone
and rock rained down upon her and smoke and dust filled the air. Step Laurana
could not move. To move would make the tragedy real. Some inane voice kept
whispering in her brain-if you stand perfectly still, this will not have
happened.

But there lay the sword, only a few feet from her. And, as she watched, she
saw the Dragon Highlord wave the spear, signaling to the dragonarmies that
waited out upon the plains, telling them to attack. Laurana heard the blaring
of the horns. In her mind's eye, she could see the draganarmies surging across
the snow-revered land.

Again the ground   shook beneath her feet. Laurana hesitated one instant more,
bidding a silent   Eaf,eweh to the spirit of the knight, Then she ran forward,
stumbling as the   ground heaved and the air crackled with terrifying lightning
blasts. Reaching   down she grabbed Sturm's sword and raised it defiantly in the
air_

~Sl'-'si Ar'atlFr?" she cried in elven, her voice ringing above the sounds of
destruction in challenge to the attacking dragons.

The dragon riders laughed, shouting their scornful challenges in return. The
dragons shrieked in cruel enjoyment of the kill. Two dragons who had
accompanied the Highlord plummeted after Laurana into the courtyard.

Laurana ran toward the huge, gaping portcullis, the entryway into the Tower
that made so little sense. The stone walls were a blur as she fled past then,
Behind her she could hear a dragon swooping after her. She could hear its
stertorous breathing, the rush of air past its wings. She heard the dragon
rider's command that stopped the dragon from following her right into the
Tower. Goodl Laurana smiled grimly to herself.

Running through the wide hallway, she sped swiftly past the second portcullis.
Knights stood there, poised and ready to drop it.

"Keep it open!" she gasped breathlessly. "Remember?"

They nodded. She sped on., Now she was in the dark, narrower chamber where the
oddly shaped, toothlike pillars slanted toward her with razor sharpness.
Behind the pillars, she saw white faces beneath gleaming helms. Here and
there, light sparkled from a dragonlance. The knights peered at her as she
past.

"Get back!" she shouted. "Stay behind the pillars."

II.5urrn'I" one asked.

Laurana shook her head, too exhausted to talk. She through the tb:ird
portcullis-the strange one, the one with hole in the center. Here stood font
knights, along with Flint. This was the key position. Laurana wanted someone
here she could depend on, She had no time for more than an exchange a glances
with the dwarf, but that was enough. Flint read the story of his friend in her
face. The dwarf's head bowed for a moment, his hand covering his eyes.
Laurana ran on. Through this small room, beneath the doors made of solid steel
and then into the chamber of dragon orb.
Tasslehoff had dusted the orb with his handkerchief.

Laurana could see inside it now, a faint red mist swirling myriad colors. The
kender stood before it, staring into it, magical glasses perched upon his
small nose.

"What do I do?" Laurana gasped, out of breath.

"Laurana," Tas begged, "don't do this!. I've read-if yes. to control the
essence of the dragons within the orb, the dragons will come, Laurana, and
take control of you!"

"Tell me what I need to do!" Laurana said firmly.

"Put your hands on the orb," Tas faltered, "and-no, wait, Laurana!"

It was too late. Laurana had already placed both slender hands upon the chill
crystal globe. There was a flash of color from inside the orb, so bright Tas
had to avert his eyes.

"Laurana!" he cried in his shrill voice. "Listen! You must concentrate, clear
your mind of everything except bending the orb to your will? Laurana. . ."

If she heard him, she made no response, and Tas realized she
was already caught up in the battle for control of the orb. Fearfully he
remembered Fizban's warning, death for those you love, worse-the loss of the
soul. Only dimly did he understand the the words written in the flaming colors
of the orb, but he knew enough to realize that Laurana's said was at balance
here.

In agony he watched her, longing to help-fret knowing that he did not dare do
anything. Laurana stood for long moments without snowing, her hands upon the
orb, her face slowly draining of all life. Her eyes stared deep info the
spinning, swirling colors.

The kender grew dizzy looking at it and turned away, feeling sick. There was
another explosion outside. Dust drifted down from the ceiling. Tas stirred
uneasily. But Laurana never moved.

Her eyes closed, her head bent forward. She clutched the orb, her hands
whitening from the pressure she exerted. Then she began to whimper and shake
her head. "II0," she moaned, and it seemed as if she were trying desperately
to pull her hands away. But the orb held them fast.

Tas wondered bleakly what they should do. He longed to run up and pull her
away. He wished he had broken this orb, but there was nothing he could do now.
He could only stand and watch helplessly.

Laurana's body gave a convulsive shudder. Tas saw her drop to her knee, her
hands still holding fast to, the orb. Then Laurana shook her head angrily.
Muttering unfamiliar words in elven, she fought to stand, using the orb to
drag herself up. Her hands turned white with the strain and sweat trickled
down her face. She was exerting every ounce of strength she possessed. With
agonizing slowness, Laurana stood.

The orb flared a final time, the colors swirled together, becoming many colors
and none. Then a bright, beaming, pure white light poured from the orb.
Laurana stood tall and straight before it. Her face relaxed. She smiled.
And then she collapsed, unconscious, to the floor.

In the courtyard of the High Clerist's Tower, the dragons were systematically
reducing the stone walls to rubble. The army was nearing the Tower, draconians
in the forefront, preparing to enter through the breached walls and kill
anything left alive inside. The Dragon Highlord circled above the chaos, his
blue dragon's nostril black with dried blood. The Highlord supervised the
destruction of the Tower. All was proceeding well when the bright daylight was
pierced by a pure white light beaming out from the three huge, gaping
entryways into the Tower.

The dragon riders glanced at these light beams, wondering casually what they
portended. Their dragons, however, reacted differently. Lifting their heads,
their eyes lost all focus. The dragons heard the call.

Captured by ancient magic-users, brought under control by an elfmaiden-the
essence of the dragons held within the orb did as it was bound to do when
commanded. It sent forth its irresistible call. And the dragons had no choice
but to answer that call and try desperately to reach its source.

In vain the startled dragon riders tried to turn their mounts. But the dragons
no longer heard the riders' commanding voices, they heard only a single voice,
that of the orb. Both dragons swooped toward the inviting portcullises while
their riders shouted and kicked wildly.

The white light spread beyond the Tower, touching the front ranks of the
dragonarmies, and the human commanders stared as their army went mad.

The orb's call sounded clearly to dragons. But draconians, who were only part
dragon, heard the call as a deafening voice shouting garbled commands. Each
one heard the voice differently, each one received a different call.

Some draconians fell to their knees, clutching their heads in agony. Others
turned and fled an unseen horror lurking in the Tower. Still others dropped
their weapons and ran wildly, straight toward the Tower. Within moments an
organized, wellplanned attack had turned into mass confusion as a thousand
draconians dashed off shrieking in a thousand directions. Seeing the major
part of their force break and run, the goblins promptly fled the battlefield,
while the humans stood bewildered amidst the chaos, waiting for orders that
were not forthcoming.

The Dragon Highlord's own mount was barely kept in control by the Highlord's
powerful force of will. But there was no stopping the other two dragons or the
madness of the army. The Highlord could only fume in impotent fury, trying to
determine what this white light was and where it was coming from. And-if
possible-try to eradicate it.

The first blue dragon reached the first portcullis and sped inside the huge
entryway, its rider ducking just in time to avoid having his head taken off by
the wall. Obeying the call of the orb, the blue dragon flew easily through the
wide stone halls, the tips of her wings just barely brushing the sides.

Through the second portcullis she darted, entering the chamber with the
strange, toothlike pillars. Here in this second chamber she smelled human
flesh and steel, but she was so in thrall to the orb she paid no attention to
them. This chamber was smaller, so she was forced to pull her wings close to
her body, letting momentum carry her forward.

Flint watched her coming. In all his one hundred forty-some years, he had
never seen a sight like this . . . and he hoped he never would again. The
dragonfear broke over the men confined in the room like a stupifying wave. The
young knights, lances clutched in their shaking hands, fell back against the
walls, hiding their eyes as the monstrous, blue-scaled body thundered past
them.

The dwarf staggered back against the wall, his nerveless hand resting feebly
on the mechanism that would slide shut the portcullis. He had never been so
terrified in his life. Death would be welcome if it would end this horror. But
the dragon sped on, seeking only one thing-to reach the orb. Her head glided
under the strange portcullis.

Acting instinctively, knowing only that the dragon must not reach the orb,
Flint released the mechanism. The portcullis closed around the dragon's neck,
holding it fast. The dragon's head was now trapped within the small chamber.
Her struggling body lay helpless, wings pressed against her sides, in the
chamber where the knights stood, dragonlances ready.

Too late, the dragon realized she was trapped. She howled in such fury the
rocks shuddered and cracked as she opened her mouth to blast the dragon orb
with her lightning breath. Tasslehoff,trying frantically to revive Laurana,
found himself staring into two flaming eyes. He saw the dragon's jaws part, he
heard the dragon suck in her breath.

Lightning crackled from the dragon's throat, the concussion knocking the
kender flat. Rock exploded into the room and the dragon orb shuddered on its
stand. Tas lay on the floor, stunned by the blast. He could not move, did not
even want to move, in fact. He just lay there, waiting for the next bolt which
he knew would kill Laurana-if she wasn't already dead-and him, too. At this
point, he really didn't much care.

But the blast never came.

The mechanism finally activated. The double steel door slammed shut in front
of the dragon's snout, sealing the creature's head inside the small room.

At first it was deathly silent. Then the most horrible scream imaginable
reverberated through the chamber. It was highpitched, shrill, wailing,
bubbling in agony, as the knights lunged out of their hiding places behind the
tooth-like pillars and drove the silver dragonlances into the blue, writhing
body of the trapped dragon.

Tas covered his ears with his hands, trying to block out the awful sound. Over
and over he pictured the terrible destruction he had seen the dragons wreak on
towns, the innocent people they had slaughtered. The dragon would have killed
him, too, he knew-killed him without mercy. It had probably already killed
Sturm. He kept reminding himself of that, trying to harden his heart.

But the kender buried his head in his hands and wept.

Then he felt a gentle hand torch him.
"Tas," whispered a voice.

"Laurana!" He raised his head. "Laurana! I'm sorry. I shouldn't care what they
do to the dragon, but I can't stand it, Laurana! Why must there be killing? I
can't stand it!" Tears streaked his face.

"I know." Laurana murmured, vivid memories of Sturm's death mingling with the
shrieks of the dying dragon. "Don't be ashamed, Tas. Be thankful you can feel
pity and horror at the death of an enemy. The day we cease to care-even for
our enemies-is the day we have lost this battle."
The fearful wailing grew even louder. Tas held out his arms and Laurana
gathered him close. The two clung to each other, trying to blot out the
screams of the dying dragon. Then they heard another sound-the knights'
calling out a warning. A second dragon had entered the other chamber, slamming
its rider into the wall as it struggled to enter the smaller entryway in
response to the beaming call of the dragon orb. The knights were sounding the
alarm.

At that moment, the Tower itself shuddered from top to foundation, shaken by
the violent flailings of the tortured dragon.

"Come on!" Laurana cried. "We've got to get out of here!" Dragging Tas to his
feet, she ran stumbling toward a small door in the wall that would lead them
out into the courtyard. Laurana yanked open the door, just as the dragon's
head burst into the room with the orb. Tas could not help stopping, just a
moment, to watch. The sight was so fascinating. He could see the dragon's
flaring eyes-mad with rage at the sounds of his dying mate, knowing-too
late-that he had flown into the same trap. The dragon's mouth twisted into a
vicious snarl, he sucked in his breath. The double steel doors dropped in
front of the dragon-but only halfway.
"Laurana, the door's stuck!" Tas shouted. "The dragon orb-"

"Come on!" Laurana yanked at the kender's hand. Lightning flashed, and Tas
turned and fled, hearing the roam behind him explode into flame. Rock and
stone filled the chamber. The white light of the dragon orb was buried in the
debris as the Tower of the High Clerist collapsed on top of it.
The shock threw Laurana and Tas off balance, sending them slamming against the
wall. Tas helped Laurana to her feet, and the two of them kept going, heading
for the bright daylight.

Then the ground was still. The thunder of falling rock   ceased. There was only
a sharp crack now and again or a low rumble. Pausing a   moment to catch their
breath, Tas and Laurana looked behind them. The end of   the passage was
completely blocked, choked by the huge boulders of the   Tower.

"What about the dragon orb?" Tas gasped.

"It is better destroyed."

Now that Tas could see Laurana more clearly in the daylight, he was stunned at
the sight. Her face was deathly white, even her lips drained of blood. The
only color was in her green eyes, and they seemed disturbingly large, shadowed
by purple smudges.

"I could not use it again," she whispered, more to herself than to him. "I
nearly gave up. Hands . . . I can't talk about it!" Shivering, she covered her
eyes. "Then I remembered Sturm, standing upon the wall, facing his death
alone. If I gave in, his death would be meaningless. I couldn't let that
happen. I couldn't let him down." She shook her head, trembling. "I forced the
orb to obey my command, but I knew I could do it only once. And I can never,
never go through that again!"

"Sturm's dead?" Tas's voice quavered.

Laurana looked at him, her eyes softened. "I'm sorry, Tas," she said. "I
didn't realize you didn't know. He-he died fighting a Dragon Highlord ."

"Was it-was it . . ." Tas choked.
"Yes, it was quick," Laurana said gently. "He did not suffer long."

Tas bowed his head, then raised it again quickly as another explosion shook
what was left of the fortress.

"The dragonarmies . . ." Laurana murmured. "Our fight is not ended." Her hand
went to the hilt of Sturm's sword, which she had buckled around her slender
waist. "Go find Flint."

Laurana emerged from the tunnel into the courtyard, blinking in the bright
light, almost surprised to see it was still day. So much had happened, it
seemed to her years might have passed. But the sun was just lifting over the
courtyard wall.
The tall Tower of the High Clerist was gone, fallen in upon itself, a heap of
stone rubble in the center of the courtyard. The entryways and halls leading
to the dragon orb were not damaged, except where the dragons had smashed into
them. The walls of the outer fortress still stood, although breached in
places, their stone blackened by the dragons' lightning bolts.

But no armies poured through the breaches. It was quiet, Laurana realized. In
the tunnels behind her, she could hear the dying screams of the second dragon,
the hoarse shouts of the knights finishing the kill.

What had happened to the army? Laurana wondered, looking around in confusion.
They must be coming over the walls. Fearfully she looked up at the
battlements, expecting to see the fierce creatures pouring over them.

And then she saw the flash of sunlight shining on armor. She saw the shapeless
mass lying on the top of the wall.

Sturm. She remembered the dream, remembered the bloody hands of the draconians
hacking at Sturm's body.

It must not happen! she thought grimly. Drawing Sturm's sword, she ran across
the courtyard and immediately realized the ancient weapon would be too heavy
for her to wield. But what else was there? She glanced around hurriedly. The
dragonlances! Dropping the sword, she grabbed one. Then, carrying the
lightweight footman's lance easily, she climbed the stairs.

Laurana reached the top of the battlements and stared out across the plain,
expecting to see the black tide of the army surging forward. But the plain was
empty. There were only a few groups of humans standing, staring vaguely
around.
What could it mean? Laurana had no idea, and she was too exhausted to think.
Her wild elation died. Weariness descended on her now, as did her grief.
Dragging the lance behind her, she stumbled over to Sturm's body lying in the
blood-stained snow.

Laurana knelt beside the knight. Putting her hand out, she brushed back the
wind-blown hair to look once more upon the face of her friend. For the first
time since she had met him, Laurana saw peace in Sturm's lifeless eyes.

Lifting his cold hand, she pressed it to her cheek. "Sleep, dear friend." she
murmured, "and let not your sleep be troubled by dragons." Then, as she lay
the cold white hand upon the shattered armor, she saw a bright sparkle in the
blood-stained snow. She picked up an object so covered with blood she could
not see what it was. Carefully Laurana brushed the snow and blood away. It was
a piece of jewelry. Laurana stared at it in astonishment.

But before she could wonder how it came to be here, a dark shadow fell over
her. Laurana heard the creak of huge wings, the intake of breath into a
gigantic body. Fearfully she leaped to her feet and whirled around.

A blue dragon landed upon the wall behind her. Stone gave way as the great
claws scrabbled for a hold. The creature's great wings beat the air. From the
saddle upon the dragon's back, a Dragon Highlord gazed at Laurana with cold,
stern eyes from behind the hideous mask.

Laurana took a step backwards as the dragonfear overcame her. The dragonlance
slipped from her nerveless hand, and she dropped the jewel into the snow.
Turning, she tried to flee, but she could not see where she was going. She
slipped and fell into the snow to lie trembling beside Sturm's body.

In her paralyzing fear, all she could think of was the dream! Here she had
died-as Sturm had died. Laurana's vision was filled with blue scales as the
creature's great neck reared above her.

The dragonlance! Scrambling for it in the blood-wet snow, Laurana's fingers
closed over its wooden shaft. She started to rise, intending to plunge it into
the dragon's neck.

But a black boot slammed down upon the lance, narrowly missing her hand.
Laurana stared at the shining black boot, decorated with gold work that
gleamed in the sun. She stared at the black boot standing in Sturm's blood,
and she drew a deep breath.

"Touch his body, and you will die." Laurana said softly. "Your dragon will not
be able to save you. This knight was my friend, and I will not let his killer
defile his body."

"I have no intention of defiling the body" the Dragon Highlord said. Moving
with elaborate slowness, the Highlord reached down and gently shut the
knight's eyes, which were fixed upon the sun he would see no more.

The Dragon Highlord stood up, facing the elfmaid who knelt in the snow, and
removed the booted foot from the dragonlance. "You see, he was my friend, too.
I knew-the moment I killed him."

Laurana stared up at the Highlord. "I don't believe you," she said tiredly.
"How could that be?"

Calmly, the Dragon Highlord removed the hideous horned dragonmask. "I think
you might have heard of me, Lauralanthalasa. That is your name, isn't it?"

Laurana nodded dumbly, rising to her feet.

The Dragon Highlord smiled, a charming, crooked smile. "And my name is-"

"Kitiara."

"How did you know?"

"A dream. . ." Laurana murmured.

"Oh, yes-the dream." Kitiara ran her gloved hand through her dark, curly hair.
"Tanis told me about the dream. I guess you all must have shared it. He
thought his friends might have." The human woman glanced down at the body of
Sturm, lying at her feet. "Odd, isn't it-the way Sturm's death came true? And
Tanis said the dream came true for him as well: the part where I saved his
life."
Laurana began to tremble. Her face, which had already been white with
exhaustion, was so drained of blood it seemed transparent. "Tanis? . . .
You've seen Tanis?"

"Just two days ago." Kitiara said. "I left him in Flotsam, to look after
matters while I was gone."

Kitiara's cold, calm words drove through Laurana's soul like the Highlord's
spear had driven through Sturm's flesh. Laurana felt the stones start to shift
from under her. The sky and ground mixed, the pain cleaved her in two. She's
lying, Laurana thought desperately. But she knew with despairing certainty
that-though Kitiara might lie when she chose-she was not lying now.
Laurana staggered and nearly fell. Only the grim determination not to reveal
any weakness before this human woman kept the elfmaiden on her feet. Kitiara
had not noticed. Stooping down, she picked up the weapon Laurana had dropped
and studied it with interest.

"So this is the famed dragonlance?" Kitiara remarked.

Laurana swallowed her grief, forcing herself to speak in a steady voice.
"Yes." she replied. "If you want to see what it's capable of, go look within
the walls of the fortress at what's left of your dragons."

Kitiara glanced down into the courtyard briefly, without a great deal of
interest. "It was not these that lured my dragons into your trap." she said,
her brown eyes appraising Laurana coolly, "nor scattered my army to the four
winds."

Once more Laurana glanced across the empty plains.

"Yes," Kitiara said, seeing the dawning comprehension on Laurana's face. "You
have won-today. Savor your victory now, Elf, for it will be short-lived." The
Dragon Highlord dexterously flipped the lance in her hand and held it aimed at
Laurana's heart. The elfmaid stood unmoving before her, the delicate face
empty of expression.

Kitiara smiled. With a quick motion, she reversed the killing stroke. "Thank
you for this weapon." she said, standing the lance in the snow. "We've
received reports of these. Now we can find out if it as formidable a weapon as
you claim."

Kitiara made Laurana a slight bow from the waist. Then, replacing the
dragonmask over her head, she grasped the dragonlance and turned to go. As she
did, her gaze went once more to the body of the knight.

"See that he is given a knight's funeral." Kitiara said. "It will take at
least three days to rebuild the army. I give you that time to prepare a
ceremony befitting him."

"We will bury our own dead." Laurana said proudly. "We ask you for nothingl"

The memory of Sturm's death, the sight of the knight's body, brought Laurana
back to reality like cold water poured on the face of a dreamer. Moving to
stand protectively between Sturm's body and the Dragon Highlord, Laurana
looked into the brown eyes, glittering behind the dragonmask.

"What will you tell Tanis?" she asked abruptly.

"Nothing." Kit said simply. "Nothing at all." Turning, she walked away.
Laurana watched the Dragon Highlord's slow, graceful walk, the black cape
fluttering in the warm breeze blowing from the north. The sun glinted off the
prize Kitiara held in her hand. Laurana knew she should get the lance away.
There was an army of knights below. She had only to call.

But Laurana's weary brain and her body refused to act. It was an effort just
to remain standing. Pride alone kept her from falling to the cold stones.

Take the dragonlance, Laurana told Kitiara silently. Much good it will do you.

Kitiara walked to the giant blue dragon. Down below, the knights had come into
the courtyard, dragging with them the head of one of her blue dragons. Skie
tossed his own head angrily at the sight, a savage growl rumbling deep within
his chest. The knights turned their amazed faces toward the wall where they
saw the dragon, the Dragon Highlord, and Laurana . More than one drew his
weapon, but Laurana raised her hand to stop them. It was the last gesture she
had strength to make.

Kitiara gave the knights a disdainful look and laid her hand upon Skie's neck,
stroking him, reassuring him. She took her time, letting them see she was not
afraid of them.

Reluctantly, the knights lowered their weapons.

Laughing scornfully, Kitiara swung herself onto the dragon.

"Farewell, Lauralanthalasa," she called.

Lifting the dragonlance in the air, Kitiara commanded Skie to fly. The huge
blue dragon spread his wings, rising effortlessly into the air. Guiding him
skillfully Kitiara flew just above Laurana.

The elfmaid looked up into the dragon's fiery red eyes. She saw the wounded,
bloodied nostril, the gaping mouth twisted in a vicious snarl. On his back,
sitting between the giant wings, was Kitiara-her dragon-scale armor
glistening, the sun glinting off the horned mask. Sunlight flashed from the
point of the dragonlance.

Then, glittering as it turned over and over, the dragonlance fell from the
Dragon Highlord's gloved hand. Clattering on the stones, it landed at
Laurana's feet.

"Keep it," Kitiara called to her in a ringing voice. "You're going to need
it!"

The blue dragon lifted his wings, caught the air currents, and soared into the
sky to vanish into the sun.




The Funeral

Winter's night was dark and starless. The wind had   become a gale, bringing
driving sleet and snow that pierced armor with the   sharpness of arrows,
freezing blood and spirit. No watch was set. A man   standing upon the
battlements of the High Clerist's Tower would have   frozen to death at his
post.
There was no need for the watch. All day, as long as the sun shone, the
knights had stared across the plains, but there was no sign of the
dragonarmies' return. Even after darkness fell, the knights could see few
campfires on the horizon.

On this winter's night, as the wind howled among the ruins of the crumbled
Tower like the shrieks of the slaughtered dragons, the Knights of Solamnia
buried their dead.

The bodies were carried into a cavelike sepulcher beneath the Tower. Long ago,
it had been used for the dead of the Knighthood. But that had been in ages
past, when Huma rode to glorious death upon the fields beyond. The sepulcher
might have remained forgotten but for the curiosity of a kender. Once it must
have been guarded and well kept, but time had touched even the dead, who are
thought to be beyond time. The stone coffins were covered with a fine sifting
of thick dust. When it was brushed away, nothing could be read of the writings
carved into the stone.

Called the Chamber of Paladine, the sepulcher was a large rectangular room,
built far below the ground where the destruction of the Tower did not affect
it. A long, narrow staircase led down to it from two huge iron doors marked
with the symbol of Paladine-the platinum dragon, ancient symbol of death and
rebirth. The knights brought torches to light the chamber, fitting them into
rusted iron sconces upon the crumbling stone walls.

The stone coffins of the ancient dead lined the walls of the room. Above each
one was an iron plaque giving the name of the dead knight, his family, and the
date of his death. A center aisle led between the rows of coffins toward a
marble altar at the head of the room. In this central aisle of the Chamber of
Paladine, the knights lay their dead.

There was no time to build coffins. All knew the dragonarmies would return.
The knights must spend their time fortifying the ruined walls of the fortress,
not building homes for those who no longer cared. They carried the bodies of
their comrades down to the Chamber of Paladine and laid them in long rows upon
the cold stone floor. The bodies were draped with ancient winding sheets which
had been meant for the ceremonial wrapping. There was no time for that either.
Each dead knight's sword was laid upon his breast, while some token of the
enemy-an arrow perhaps, a battered shield, or the claws of a dragon-were laid
at his feet.

When the bodies had been carried to the torch-lit chamber, the knights
assembled. They stood among their dead, each man standing beside the body of a
friend, a comrade, a brother. Then, amid a silence so profound each man could
hear his own heart beating, the last three bodies were brought inside. Carried
upon stretchers, they were attended by a solemn Guard of Honor.

This should have been a state funeral, resplendent with the trappings detailed
by the Measure. At the altar should have stood the Grand Master, arrayed in
ceremonial armor. Beside him should have been the High Clerist, clad in armor
covered with the white robes of a cleric of Paladine. Here should have stood
the High Justice, his armor covered by the judicial robes of black. The altar
itself should have been banked with roses. Golden emblems of the kingfisher,
the crown, and the sword should have been placed upon it.

But here at the altar stood only an elfmaiden, clad in armor that was   dented
and stained with blood. Beside her stood an old dwarf, his head bowed   in
grief, and a kender, his impish face ravaged by sorrow. The only rose   upon the
altar was a black one, found in Sturm's belt; the only ornament was a   silver
dragonlance, black with clotted blood.
The Guard carried the bodies to the front of the chamber and reverently laid
them before the three friends.

On the right lay the body of Lord Alfred MarKenin, his mutilated, headless
corpse mercifully shrouded in white linen. On the left lay Lord Derek
Crownguard, his body covered with white cloth to hide the hideous grin death
had frozen upon his face. In the center lay the body of Sturm Brightblade. He
was not covered by a white sheet. He lay in the armor he had worn at his
death: his father's armor. His father's antique sword was clasped in cold
hands upon his breast. One other ornament lay upon his shattered breast, a
token none of the knights recognized.

It was the Starjewel, which Laurana had found in a pool of the knight's own
blood. The jewel was dark, its brilliance fading even as Laurana had held it
in her hand. Many things became clear to her later, as she studied the
Starjewel. This, then, was how they shared the dream in Silvanesti. Had Sturm
realized its power? Did he know of the link that had been forged between
himself and Alhana? No, Laurana thought sadly, he had probably not known. Nor
could he realize the love it represented. No human could. Carefully she had
placed it upon his breast as she thought with sorrow of the dark-haired elven
woman, who must know the heart upon which the glittering Starjewel rested was
stilled forever.

The Honor Guard stepped back, waiting. The assembled knights stood with heads
bowed for a moment, then lifted them to face Laurana.
This should have been the time for proud speeches, for recitals of the dead
knights' heroic deeds. But for a moment, all that could be heard was the
wheezing sobs of the old dwarf and Tasslehoff's quiet snuffle. Laurana looked
down into Sturm's peaceful face, and she could not speak.

For a moment she envied Sturm, envied him fiercely. He was beyond pain, beyond
suffering, beyond loneliness. His war had been fought. He was victorious.

You left me! Laurana cried in agony. Left me   to cope with this by myself!
First Tanis, then Elistan, now you. I can't!   I'm not strong enough! I can't
let you go, Sturm. Your death was senseless,   meaningless! A fraud and a sham!
I won't let you go. Not quietly! Not without   anger!

Laurana lifted her head, her eyes blazing in the torchlight.

"You expect a noble speech." she said, her voice cold as the of the sepulcher.
"A noble speech honoring the heroic deeds these men who have died. Well, you
won't get it. Not me!"

The knights glanced at each other, faces dark.

"These men, who should have been united in a brotherhood forged when Krynn was
young, died in bitter discord, brought about by pride, ambition, and greed.
Your eyes turn to Derek Crownguard, but he was not totally to blame. You are.
All of you! All of you who took sides in this reckless bid for power."

A few knights lowered their heads, some paled with shame and anger. Laurana
choked with her tears. Then she felt Flint's hand slip into hers, squeezing it
comfortingly. Swallowing, she drew a deep breath.
"Only one man was above this. Only one man here among you lived the Code every
day of his life. And for most of those days, he was not a knight. Or rather,
he was a knight where it meant the most-in spirit, in heart, not in some
official list."
Reaching behind her, Laurana took the blood-stained dragonlance from the altar
and raised it high over her head. And as she lifted the lance, her spirit was
lifted. The wings of darkness that had hovered around her were banished. When
she raised her voice, the knights stared at her in wonder. Her beauty blessed
them like the beauty of a dawning spring day.

"Tomorrow I will leave this place." Laurana said softly, her luminous eyes on
the dragonlance. "I will go to Palanthas. I will take with me the story of
this day! I will take this lance and the head of a dragon. I will dump that
sinister, bloody head upon the steps of their magnificent palace. I will stand
upon the dragon's head and make them listen to me! And Palanthas will listen!
They will see their danger! And then I will go to Sancrist and to Ergoth and
to every other place in this world where people refuse to lay down their petty
hatreds and join together. For until we conquer the evils within ourselves-as
this man did-we can never conquer the great evil that threatens to engulf us!"

Laurana raised her hands and her eyes to heaven. "Paladine!" she called out,
her voice ringing like the trumpet's call. "We come to you, Paladine,
escorting the souls of these noble knights who died in the High Clerist's
Tower. Give us who are left behind in this war-torn world the same nobility of
spirit that graces this man's death!"

Laurana closed her eyes as tears spilled unheeded and unchecked down her
cheeks. No longer did she grieve for Sturm. Her sorrow was for herself, for
missing his presence, for having to tell Tanis of his friend's death, for
having to live in this world without this noble friend by her side.

Slowly she laid the lance upon the altar. Then she knelt before it a moment,
feeling Flint's arm around her shoulder and Tassslehoff's gentle touch upon
her hand.

As if in answer to her prayer, she heard the knights' voices rising behind
her, carrying their own prayers to the great and ancient god, Paladine.

Return this man to Huma's breast: Let him be lost in sunlight, In the chorus
of air where breath is translated; At the sky's border receive him.

Beyond the wild, impartial skies
Have you set your lodgings,
In cantonments of stars, where the sword aspires
In an arc of yearning, where we join in singing.
Grant to him a warrior's rest.
Above our singing, above song itself,
May the ages of peace converge in a day
May he dwell in the heart of Paladine.

And set the last spark of his eyes
In a fixed and holy place
Above words and the borrowed land too loved
As we recount the ages.

Free from the smothering clouds of war
As he once rose in infancy
The long world possible and bright before him, Lord Huma, deliver him.
Upon the torches of the stars
Was mapped the immaculate glory of childhood;
From that wronged and nestling country, Lord Huma, deliver him.

Let the last surge of his breath Perpetuate wine, the attar of flowers;
From the vanguard of love, the last to surrender, Lord Huma, deliver him.
Take refuge in the cradling air
From the heart of the sword descending,
From the weight of battle on battle; Lord Huma, deliver him.
Above the dreams of ravens where
His dreams first tried a rest beyond changing,
From the yearning for war and the war's ending, Lord Huma, deliver him.

Only the hawk remembers death
In a late country; from the dusk,
From the fade of the senses, we are thankful that you, Lord Huma, deliver him.

Then let his shade to Huma rise
Out of the body of death, of the husk unraveling;
From the lodging of mind upon nothing, we are thankful that you, Lord Huma,
deliver him.
Beyond the wild, impartial skies
Have you set your lodgings,
In cantonments of stars, where the sword aspires In an arc of yearning, where
we join in singing.

Return this man to Huma's breast
Beyond the wild, impartial skies;
Grant to him a warrior's rest
And set the last spark of his eyes
Free from the smothering clouds of wars
Upon the torches of the stars.
Let the last surge of his breath
Take refuge in the cradling air
Above the dreams of ravens where
 Only the hawk remembers death.
Then let his shade to Huma rise
Beyond the wild, impartial skies.

The chant ended. Slowly, solemnly the knights walked forward one by one to pay
homage to the dead, each kneeling for a moment before the altar. Then the
Knights of Solamnia left the Chamber of Paladine, returning to their cold beds
to try and find some rest before the next day's dawning.

Laurana, Flint, and Tasslehoff stood alone beside their friend, their arms
around each other, their hearts full. A chill wind whistled through the open
door of the sepulcher where the Honor Guard stood, ready to seal the chamber.

"Kharan bea Reorx." said Flint in dwarven,wiping his gnarled and shaking hand
across his eyes. "Friends meet in Reorx." Fumbling in his pouch, he took out a
bit of wood, beautifully carved into the shape of arose. Gently he laid it
upon Sturm's breast, beside Alhana's Starjewel.

"Good-bye, Sturm," Tas said awkwardly. "I only have one gift that-that you
would approve of. I-I don't think you'll understand. But then again, maybe you
do now. Maybe you understand better than I do." Tasslehoff placed a small
white feather in the knight's cold hand.

"Quisalan elevas." Laurana whispered in elven. "Our lovesbond eternal." She
paused, unable to leave him in this darkness.

"Come, Laurana," Flint said gently. "We've said our goodbyes. We must let him
go. Reorx waits for him."

Laurana drew back. Silently, without looking back, the three friends climbed
the narrow stairs leading from the sepulcher and walked steadfastly into the
chill, stinging sleet of the bitter winter's night.

Far away from the frozen land of Solamnia, one other person said good-bye to
Sturm Brightblade.

Silvanesti had not changed with the passing months. Though Lorac's nightmare
was ended, and his body lay beneath the soil of his beloved country, the land
still remembered Lorac's terrible dreams. The air smelled of death and decay.
The trees bent and twisted in unending agony. Misshapen beasts roamed the
woods, seeking an end to their tortured existence.

In vain Alhana watched from her room in the Tower of the Stars for some sign
of change.

The griffons had come back-as she had known they would once the dragon was
gone. She had fully intended to leave Silvanesti and return to her people on
Ergoth. But the griffons carried disturbing news: war between the elves and
humans.

It was a mark of the change in Alhana, a mark of her suffering these past
months, that she found this news distressing. Before she met Tanis and the
others, she would have accepted war between elves and humans, perhaps even
welcomed it. But now she saw that this was only the work of the evil forces in
the world.

She should return to her people, she knew. Perhaps she could end this
insanity. But she told herself the weather was unsafe for traveling. In
reality, she shrank from facing the shock and the disbelief of her people when
she told them of the destruction of their land and her promise to her dying
father that the elves would return and rebuild-after they had helped the
humans fight the Dark Queen and her minions.

Oh, she would win. She had no doubt. But she dreaded leaving the solitude of
her self-imposed exile to face the tumult of the world beyond Silvanesti.

And she dreaded-even as she longed-to see the human she loved. The knight,
whose proud and noble face came to her in her dreams, whose very soul she
shared through the Starjewel. Unknown to him, she stood beside him in his
fight to save his honor. Unknown to him, she shared his agony and came to
learn the depths of his noble spirit. Her love for him grew daily, as did her
fear of loving him.

And so Alhana continually put off her departure. I will leave, she told
herself, when I see some sign I may give my people-a sign of hope. Otherwise
they will not come back. They will give up in despair. Day after day, she
looked from her window.

But no sign came.

The winter nights grew longer. The darkness deepened. One evening Alhana
walked upon the battlements of the Tower of the Stars. It was afternoon in
Solamnia then, and-on another Tower-Sturm Brightblade faced a sky blue dragon
and a Dragon Highlord called the Dark Lady. Suddenly Alhana felt a strange and
terrifying sensation-as though the world had ceased to turn. A shattering pain
pierced her body, driving her to the stone below. Sobbing in fear and grief,
she clutched the Starjewel she wore around her neck and watched in agony as
its light flickered and died.

"So this is my sign!" she screamed bitterly, holding the darkened jewel in her
hand and shaking it at the heavens. "There is no hope! There is nothing but
death and despair!"

Holding the jewel so tightly that the sharp point bit into her flesh, Alhana
stumbled unseeing through the darkness to her room in the Tower. From there
she looked out once more upon her dying land. Then, with a shuddering sob, she
closed and locked the wooden shutters of her window.
Let the world do what it will, she told herself bitterly. Let my people meet
their end in their own way. Evil will prevail. There is nothing we can do to
stop it. I will die here, with my father.
That night she made one final journey out into the land.

Carelessly she threw a thin cape over her shoulders and headed for a grave
lying beneath a twisted, tortured tree. In her hand, she held the Starjewel.

Throwing herself down upon the ground, Alhana began to dig frantically with
her bare hands, scratching at the frozen ground of her father's grave with
fingers that were soon raw and bleeding. She didn't care. She welcomed the
pain that was so much easier to bear than the pain in her heart.

Finally, she had dug a small hole. The red moon, Lunitari, crept into the
night sky, tinging the silver moon's light with blood. Alhana stared at the
Starjewel until she could no longer see it through her tears, then she cast it
into the hole she had dug. She forced herself to quit crying. Wiping the tears
from her face, she started to fill in the hole.

Then she stopped.

Her hands trembled. Hesitantly, she reached down and brushed the dirt from the
Starjewel, wondering if her grief had driven her mad. No, from it came a tiny
glimmer of light that grew even stronger as she watched. Alhana lifted the
shimmering jewel from the grave.

"But he's dead." she said softly, staring at the jewel that sparkled in
Solinari silver light. "I know death has claimed him. Nothing can change that.
Yet, why this light-"

A sudden rustling sound startled her. Alhana fell back, fearing that the
hideously deformed tree above Lorac's grave might be reaching to grasp her in
its creaking branches. But as she watched she saw the limbs of the tree cease
their tortured writhing. They hung motionless for an instant, then-with a
sighturned toward the heavens. The trunk straightened and the bark became
smooth and began to glisten in the silver moonlight. Blood ceased to drip from
the tree. The leaves felt living sap flow once more through their veins.

Alhana gasped. Rising unsteadily to her feet, she looked around her land. But
nothing else had changed. None of the other trees were different-only this
one, above Lorac's grave.

I am going mad, she thought. Fearfully she turned back to look at the tree
upon her father's grave. No, it was changed. Even as she watched, it grew more
beautiful.

Carefully, Alhana hung the Starjewel back in its place over her heart. Then
she turned and walked back toward the Tower. There was much to be done before
she left for Ergoth.

The next morning, as the sun shed its pale light over the unhappy land of
Silvanesti, Alhana looked out over the forest. Nothing had changed. A noxious
green mist still hung low over the suffering trees. Nothing would change, she
knew, until the elves came back and worked to make it change. Nothing had
changed except the tree above Lorac's grave.

"Farewell, Lorac," Alhana called, "until we return."

Summoning her griffon, she climbed onto its strong back and spoke a firm word
of command. The griffon spread its feathery wings and soared into the air,
rising in swift spirals above the stricken land of Silvanesti. At a word from
Alhana, it turned its head west and began the long flight to Ergoth.

Far below, in Silvanesti, one tree's beautiful green leaves stood out in
splendid contrast to the black desolation of the forest around it. It swayed
in the winter wind, singing soft music as it spread its limbs to shelter
Lorac's grave from the winter's darkness, waiting for spring.



DRAGONLANCE

The DRAGONLANCE books tell the epic tale of the fight for Krynn. If you
enjoyed the book, it is the start of many adventures that can be yours in the
world of Krynn. You can be Tanis or Laurana, Raistlin or Tasslehoff, or any
fantastic character of your own imagination.
With the DRAGONLANCE Adventure Modules you can experience the world of Krynn
for yourself.
For more information contact
Press Office The Mill Rathmore Road CAMBRIDGE CBI 4AD
The symbol TM denotes a trademark of TSR Inc. (c) I986 TSR UK Limited.

The end of an ocr nightmare.....TSR you cheapskates!
(c) Mucho Cheapo printing press inc.




<()>
Kitiara, of all the days these days are locked in dark and waiting, in regret.
The clouds obscure the city as I write this, delaying thought and sunlight, as
the streets hang between day and darkness. I have waited past all decision,
past the heart of shadows to tell you this.
In absences you grew more beautiful, more poisonous. You were an attar of
orchids in the stemming night, where passion, like a shark having found a
bloodstream murders other senses, only taste preserving, buckling into itself,
finding the blood its own, a small wound first, but as the shark unravels the
belly tatters in the long throat's tunnel. And knowing this, the night still
seems a richness, a gauntlet of desires ending in peace, I would still be part
of these allurements, and to my arms I would take in the darkness, blessed and
renamed by pleasure;
But the light,
The light, my Kitiara, when the sun spangles the rain-gorged sidewalks and the
oil from doused lamps rises in the sunstruck water, splintering the light to
rainbows! I arise, and though the storm resettles on the city, I think of
Sturm, Laurana, and the others, but Sturm the foremost, who can see the sun
straight through the fog and cloudrack. How could I abandon them?
And so into the shadow, and not your shadow but the eager grayness expecting
light, I ride the storm away.

Tanis Half-Elven

Prologue

"Why, look, Berem. Here's a path... how strange. All the times we've been
hunting in these woods and we've never seen it."
"It's not so strange. The fire burned off some of the brush, that's all.
Probably just an animal trail."
"Let's follow it. If it is an animal trail, maybe we'll find a deer. We've
been hunting all day with nothing to show for it. I hate to go home
empty-handed."
Without waiting for my reply, she turns onto the trail. Shrugging, I follow
her. It is pleasant being outdoors today- the first warm day after the bitter
chill of winter. The sun is warm on my neck and shoulders. Walking through the
fire-ravaged woods is easy. No vines to snag you. No brush to tear at your
clothing. Lightning, probably that thunderstorm which struck late last fall.
But we walk for a long time and finally I begin to grow weary. She is
wrong-this is no animal trail. It is a man-made path and an old one at that.
We're not likely to find any game. Just the same as it's been all day. The
fire, then the hard winter. The animals dead or gone. There'll be no fresh
meat tonight.
More walking. The sun is high in the sky. I'm tired, hungry. There's been no
sign of any living creature.
"Let's turn back, sister. There's nothing here..."
She stops, sighing. She is hot and tired and discouraged, I can tell. And too
thin. She works too hard; doing women's work and men's as well. Out hunting
when she should be home, receiving the pledges of suitors. She's pretty, I
think. People say we look alike, but I know they are wrong. It is only that we
are so close- closer than other brothers and their sisters. But we've had to
be close. Our life has been so hard...
"I suppose you're right, Berem. I've seen no sign... Wait, brother... Look
ahead. What's that?"
I see a bright and shining glitter, a myriad of colors dancing in the
sunlight-as if all the jewels on Krynn were heaped together in a basket.
Her eyes widen. "Perhaps it's the gates of the rainbow!"

Ha! Stupid girlish notion. I laugh, but I find myself running forward. It is
hard to catch up with her. Though I am bigger and stronger, she is fleet as a
deer.
We come to a clearing in the forest. If lightning did strike this forest, this
must have been where the bolt hit. The land around is scorched and blasted.
There was a building here once, I notice. Ruined, broken columns jut up from
the blackened ground like broken bones sticking through decaying flesh. An
oppressive feeling hangs over the place. Nothing grows here, nor has anything
grown here for many springs. I want to leave, but I cannot...
Before me is the most beautiful, wonderful sight I have ever seen in my life,
or in my dreams... A piece of a stone column, encrusted with jewels! I know
nothing about gemstones, but I can tell these are valuable beyond belief! My
body begins to shake. Hurrying forward, I kneel down beside the fire-blasted
stone and brush away the dirt and filth.
She kneels beside me.
"Berem! How wonderful! Did you ever see anything like it? Such beautiful
jewels in such a horrible place." She looks around and I feel her shivering.
"I wonder what this used to be? There's such a solemn feeling about it, a holy
feeling. But an evil feeling, too. It must have been a temple before the
Cataclysm. A temple to the evil gods . . . Berem! What are you doing?"
I have taken out my hunting knife and I begin to chip away the stone around
one of the jewels-a radiant green gemstone. It is as big as my fist and
sparkles more brilliantly than the sun shining on green leaves. The rock
around it comes away easily beneath my knife blade.
"Stop it, Berem! "Her voice is shrill. "It-it's desecration! This place is
sacred to some god! I know it!"
I can feel the gemstone's cold crystal, yet it burns with an inner green fire!
I ignore her protests.
"Bah! You said before it was the rainbow's gates! You're right! We've found
our fortune, as the old story says. If this place was sacred to the gods, they
must have abandoned it years ago. Look round, it's nothing but rubble! If they
wanted it, they should have taken care of it. The gods won't mind if I take a
few of these jewels...
"Berem!"
An edge of fear in her voice! She's really frightened! Foolish girl. She's
beginning to irritate me. The gemstone is almost free. I can wiggle it.
"Look, at it, Jas!" I am shaking with excitement. I can barely talk. "We've
nothing to live on, now- what with the fire and the hard winter. These jewels
will bring money enough in the market at Cargath for us to move away from this
wretched place. We'll go to a city, maybe Palanthas! You know you've wanted to
see the wonders there...
"No! Berem, I forbid it! You are committing sacrilege!"
Her voice is stern. I have never seen her like this! For a moment I hesitate.
I draw back, away from the broken stone column with its rainbow of jewels. I,
too, am beginning to feel something frightening and evil about this place. But
the jewels are so beautiful! Even as I stare at them, they glitter and sparkle
in the sunshine. No god is here. No god cares about them. No god will miss
them. Embedded in some old column that is crumbling and broken.
I reach down to pry the jewel out of stone with my knife. It is such a rich
green, shining as brilliantly as the spring sun shines through the new leaves
of the trees. ...
"Berem! Stop!"
Her hand grasps my arm, and her nails dig into my flesh. It hurts... I grow
angry and, as sometimes happens when I grow angry, a haze dims my vision and I
feel a suffocating swelling inside of me. My head pounds until it seems my
eyes must burst from their sockets.
"Leave me be!" I hear a roaring voice-my own!
I shove her...
She falls...
It all happens so slowly. She is falling forever. I didn't mean to ... I want
to catch her... But I cannot move.
She falls against the broken column.
Blood... blood...
"Jas!" I whisper, lifting her in my arms.
But she doesn't answer me. Blood covers the jewels. They don't sparkle
anymore. Just like her eyes. The light is gone....
And then the ground splits apart! Columns rise from the blackened, blasted
soil, spiraling into the air! A great darkness comes forth and I feel a
horrible, burning pain in my chest....
"Berem!"
Maquesta stood on the foredeck, glaring at her helmsman.
"Berem, I told you. A gale's brewing. I want the ship battened down. What are
you doing? Standing there, staring out to sea. What are you practicing to be-a
monument? Get moving, you lubber! I don't pay good wages to statues!"
Berem started. His face paled and he cringed before Maquesta's irritation in
such a pitiful manner that the captain of the Perechon felt as if she were
taking out her anger on a helpless child.
That's all he is, she reminded herself wearily. Even though he must be fifty
or sixty years old, even though he was one of the best helmsmen she had ever
sailed with-mentally, he was still a child.
"I'm sorry, Berem," Maq said, sighing. "I didn't mean to yell at you. It's
just the storm ... it makes me nervous. There, there. Don't look at me like
that. How I wish you could talk! I wish I knew what was going on in that head
of yours-if there is anything! Well, never mind. Attend to your duties, then
go below. Better get used to lying in your berth for a few days until the gale
blows itself out."
Berem smiled at her-the simple, guileless smile of a child.
Maquesta smiled back, shaking her head. Then she hurried away, her thoughts
busy with getting her beloved ship prepared to ride out the gale. Out of the
corner of her eye, she saw Berem shuffle below, then promptly forgot about him
when her first mate came aboard to report that he had found most of the crew
and only about one-third of them were so drunk as to be useless . . .
Berem lay in the hammock slung in the crew's quarters of the Perechon. The
hammock swung back and forth violently as the first winds of the gale struck
the Perechon as it rode at anchor in the harbor of Flotsam on the Blood Sea of
Istar. Putting his hands-the hands that looked too young on the body of a
fifty-year-old human-beneath his head, Berem stared up at the lamp swinging
from the wooden planks above him.
"Why, look, Berem. Here's a path... How strange! All the times we've been
hunting in these woods and we've never seen it."
"It's not so strange. The fire burned off some of the brush, that's all.
Probably just an animal trail."
"Let's follow it. If it is an animal trail, maybe we'll find a deer. We've
been hunting all day with nothing to show for it. I hate to go home
empty-handed."
Without waiting for my reply, she turns onto the trail. Shrugging, I follow
her. It is pleasant being outdoors today- the first warm day after the bitter
chill of winter. The sun is warm on my neck and shoulders. Walking through the
fire-ravaged woods is easy. No vines to snag you. No brush to tear at your
clothing. Lightning, probably that thunderstorm which struck late last fall...

1

Flight from darkness into darkness.

The dragonarmy officer slowly descended the stairs from the second floor of
the Saltbreeze Inn. It was past midnight. Most of the inn's patrons had long
since gone to bed. The only sound the officer could hear was the crashing of
waves of Blood Bay on the rocks below.
The officer paused a moment on the landing, casting a quick, sharp glance
around the Common Room that lay spread out below him. It was empty, except for
a draconian sprawled across a table, snoring loudly in a drunken stupor. The
dragon-man's wings shivered with each snort. The wooden table creaked and
swayed beneath it.
The officer smiled bitterly then continued down the stairs. He was dressed in
the steel dragonscale armor copied from the real dragonscale armor of the
Dragon Highlords. His helm covered his head and face, making it difficult to
see his features. All that was visible beneath the shadow cast by the helm was
a reddish brown beard that marked him-racially-as human. At the bottom of the
stairs, the officer came to a sudden halt, apparently nonplussed at the sight
of the innkeeper, still awake and yawning over his account books. After a
slight nod, the dragon officer seemed about to go on out of the inn without
speaking, but the innkeeper stopped him with a question.
"You expecting the Highlord tonight?"
The officer halted and half-turned. Keeping his face averted, he pulled out a
pair of gloves and began putting them on. The weather was bitterly chill. The
sea city of Flotsam was in the grip of a winter storm the like of which it had
not experienced in its three hundred years of existence on the shores of Blood
Bay.
"In this weather?" The dragonarmy officer snorted. "Not likely! Not even
dragons can outfly these gale winds!"
"True. It's not a fit night out for man or beast," the innkeeper agreed. He
eyed the dragon officer shrewdly. "What business do you have, then, that takes
you out in this storm?"
The dragonarmy officer regarded the innkeeper coldly. "I don't see that it's
any of your business where I go or what I do."
"No offense," the innkeeper said quickly, raising his hands as if to ward off
a blow. "It's just that if the Highlord comes back and happens to miss you,
I'd be glad to tell her where you could be found."
"That won't be necessary," the officer muttered. "I-I've left her a-note . . .
explaining my absence. Besides, I'll be back before morning. I-I just need a
breath of air. That's all."
"I don't doubt that!" The innkeeper sniggered. "You haven't left her room for
three days! Or should I say three nights! Now-don't get mad"-this on seeing
the officer flush angrily beneath the helm-"I admire the man can keep her
satisfied that long! Where was she bound for?"
"The Highlord was called to deal with a problem in the east, somewhere near
Solamnia," the officer replied, scowling. "I wouldn't inquire any further into
her affairs if I were you."
"No, no," replied the innkeeper hastily. "Certainly not. Well, I bid you good
evening-what was your name? She introduced us, but I failed to catch it."
"Tanis," the officer said, his voice muffled. "Tanis Half-Elven. And a good
evening to you."
Nodding coldly, the officer gave his gloves a final sharp tug, then, pulling
his cloak around him, he opened the door to the inn and stepped out into the
storm. The bitter wind swept into the room, blowing out candles and swirling
the innkeeper's papers around. For a moment, the officer struggled with the
heavy door while the innkeeper cursed fluently and grabbed for his scattered
accounts. Finally the officer succeeded in slamming the door shut behind him,
leaving the inn peaceful, quiet, and warm once more.
Staring out after him, the innkeeper saw the officer walk past the front
window, his head bent down against the wind, his cloak billowing out behind
him.
One other figure watched the officer as well. The instant the door shut, the
drunken draconian raised its head, its black, reptilian eyes glittering.
Stealthily it rose from the table, its steps quick and certain. Padding
lightly on its clawed feet, it crept to the window and peered outside. For a
few moments, the draconian waited, then it too flung open the door and
disappeared into the storm.
Through the window, the innkeeper saw the draconian head in the same direction
as the dragonarmy officer. Walking over, the innkeeper peered out through the
glass. It was wild and dark outside, the tall iron braziers of flaming pitch
that lit the night streets sputtering and flickering in the wind and the
driving rain. But the innkeeper thought he saw the dragonarmy officer turn
down a street leading to the main part of town. Creeping along behind him,
keeping to the shadows, came the draconian. Shaking his head, the innkeeper
woke the night clerk, who was dozing in a chair behind the desk.
"I've a feeling the Highlord will be in tonight, storm or no storm," the
innkeeper told the sleepy clerk. "Wake me if she comes."
Shivering, he glanced outside into the night once more, seeing in his mind's
eye the dragonarmy officer walking the empty streets of Flotsam, the shadowy
figure of the draconian slinking after him.
"On second thought," the innkeeper muttered, "let me sleep."


The storm shut down Flotsam tonight. The bars that normally stayed open until
the dawn straggled through their grimy windows were locked up and shuttered
against the gale. The streets were deserted, no one venturing out into the
winds that could knock a man down and pierce even the warmest clothing with
biting cold.
Tanis walked swiftly, his head bowed, keeping near the darkened buildings that
broke the full force of the gale. His beard was soon rimed with ice. Sleet
stung his face painfully. The half-elf shook with the cold, cursing the
dragonarmor's cold metal against his skin. Glancing behind him occasionally,
he watched to see if anyone had taken an unusual interest in his leaving the
inn. But the visibility was reduced to almost nothing. Sleet and rain swirled
around him so that he could barely see tall buildings looming up in the
darkness, much less anything else. After a while, he realized he better
concentrate on finding his way through town. Soon he was so numb with cold
that he didn't much care if anyone was following him or not.
He hadn't been in the town of Flotsam long-only four days to be precise. And
most of those days had been spent with her.
Tanis blocked the thought from his mind as he stared through the rain at the
street signs. He knew only vaguely where he was going. His friends were in an
inn somewhere on the edge of town, away from the wharf, away from the bars and
brothels. For a moment he wondered in despair what he would do if he got lost.
He dared not ask about them...
And then he found it. Stumbling through the deserted streets, slipping on the
ice, he almost sobbed in relief when he saw the sign swinging wildly in the
wind. He hadn't even been able to remember the name, but now he recognized
it-the Jetties.
Stupid name for an inn, he thought, shaking so with the cold he could barely
grasp the door handle. Pulling the door open, he was blown inside by the force
of the wind, and it was with an effort that he managed to shove the door shut
behind him.
There was no night clerk on duty-not at this shabby place. By the light of a
smoking fire in the filthy grate, Tanis saw a stub of a candle sitting on the
desk, apparently for the convenience of guests who staggered in after hours.
His hands shook so he could barely strike the flint. After a moment he forced
his cold-stiffened fingers to work, lit the candle, and made his way upstairs
by its feeble light.
If he had turned around and glanced out the window, he would have seen a
shadowy figure huddle in a doorway across the street. But Tanis did not look
out the window behind him; his eyes were on the stairs.


"Caramon!"
The big warrior instantly sat bolt upright, his hand reaching reflexively for
his sword, even before he turned to look questioningly at his brother.
"I heard a noise outside," Raistlin whispered. 'The sound of a scabbard
clanking against armor."
Caramon shook his head, trying to clear the sleep away, and climbed out of
bed, sword in hand. He crept toward the door until he, too, could hear the
noise that had wakened his light-sleeping brother. A man dressed in armor was
walking stealthily down the hall outside their rooms. Then Caramon could see
the faint glow of candlelight beneath the door. The sound of clanking armor
came to halt, right outside their room.
Gripping his sword, Caramon motioned to his brother. Raistlin nodded and
melted back into the shadows. His eyes were abstracted. He was calling to mind
a magic spell. The twin brothers worked well together, effectively combining
magic and steel to defeat their foes.
The candlelight beneath the door wavered. The man must be shifting the candle
to his other hand, freeing his sword hand. Reaching out, Caramon slowly and
silently slid the bolt on the door. He waited a moment. Nothing happened. The
man was hesitating, perhaps wondering if this was the right room. He'll find
out soon enough, Caramon thought to himself.
Caramon flung open the door with a sudden jerk. Lunging around it, he grasped
hold of the dark figure and dragged him inside. With all the strength of his
brawny arms, the warrior flung the armor-clad man to the floor. The candle
dropped, its flame extinguishing in melted wax. Raistlin began to chant a
magic spell that would entrap their victim in a sticky web-like substance.
"Hold! Raistlin, stop!" the man shouted. Recognizing the voice, Caramon
grabbed hold of his brother, shaking him to break the concentration of his
spellcasting.
"Raist! It's Tanis!"
Shuddering, Raistlin came out of his trance, arms dropped limply to his sides.
Then he began to cough, clutching his chest.
Caramon cast an anxious glance at his twin, but Raistlin warded him away with
a wave of the hand. Turning, Caramon reached down to help the half-elf to his
feet.
"Tanis!" he cried, nearly squeezing the breath out of him with an enthusiastic
embrace. "Where have you been? We were sick with worry. By all the gods,
you're freezing! Here, I'll poke up the fire. Raist"-Caramon turned to his
brother-"are you sure you're all right?"
"Don't concern yourself with me!" Raistlin whispered. The mage sank back down
on his bed, gasping for breath. His eyes glittered gold in the flaring
firelight as he stared at the half-elf, who huddled thankfully beside the
blaze. "You better get the others."
"Right." Caramon started out the door.
"I'd put some clothes on first," Raistlin remarked caustically.
Blushing, Caramon hurried back to his bed and grabbed a pair of leather
breeches. Pulling these on, he slipped a shirt over his head, then went out
into the hallway, softly closing the door behind him. Tanis and Raistlin could
hear him knocking gently on the Plainsmen's door. They could hear Riverwind's
stern reply and Caramon's hurried, excited explanation.
Tanis glanced at Raistlin-saw the mage's strange hourglass eyes focused on him
with a piercing stare-and turned uncomfortably back to gaze into the fire.
"Where have you been, Half-Elf?" Raistlin asked in his soft, whispering voice.
Tanis swallowed nervously. "I was captured by a Dragon Highlord," he said,
reciting the answer he had prepared. "The Highlord thought I was one of his
officers, naturally, and asked me to escort him to his troops, who are
stationed outside of town. Of course I had to do as he asked or make him
suspicious. Finally, tonight, I was able to get away."
"Interesting." Raistlin coughed the word.
Tanis glanced at him sharply. "What's interesting?"
"I've never heard you lie before, Half-Elf," Raistlin said softly. "I find
it... quite... fascinating."
Tanis opened his mouth, but, before he could reply, Caramon returned, followed
by Riverwind and Goldmoon and Tika, yawning sleepily.
Hurrying to him, Goldmoon embraced Tanis swiftly. "My friend!" she said
brokenly, holding onto him tightly. "We've been so worried-"
Riverwind clasped Tanis by the hand, his usually stern face relaxed in a
smile. Gently he took hold of his wife and removed her from Tanis's embrace,
but it was only to take her place.
"My brother!" Riverwind said in Que-shu, the dialect of the Plains people,
hugging the half-elf tightly. "We feared you were captured! Dead! We didn't
know-"
"What happened? Where were you?" Tika asked eagerly, coming forward to hug
Tanis.
Tanis looked over at Raistlin, but he was lying back on his hard pillow, his
strange eyes fixed on the ceiling, seemingly uninterested in anything being
said.
Clearing his throat self-consciously, intensely aware of Raistlin listening,
Tanis repeated his story. The others followed it with expressions of interest
and sympathy. Occasionally they asked questions. Who was this Highlord? How
big was the army? Where was it located? What were the draconians doing in
Flotsam? Were they really searching for them? How had Tanis escaped?
Tanis answered all of their questions glibly. As for the Highlord, he hadn't
seen much of him. He didn't know who he was. The army was not large. It was
located outside of town. The draconians were searching for someone, but it was
not them. They were looking for a human named Berem or something strange like
that.
At this Tanis shot a quick look at Caramon, but the big man's face registered
no recognition. Tanis breathed easier. Good, Caramon didn't remember the man
they had seen patching the sail on the Perechon. He didn't remember or he
hadn't caught the man's name. Either way was fine.
The others nodded, absorbed in his story. Tanis sighed in relief. As for
Raistlin... well, it didn't really matter what the mage thought or said. The
others would believe Tanis over Raistlin even if the half-elf claimed day was
night. Undoubtedly Raistlin knew this, which was why he didn't cast any doubts
on Tanis's story. Feeling wretched, hoping no one would ask him anything else
and force him to mire himself deeper and deeper in lies; Tanis yawned and
groaned as if exhausted past endurance.
Goldmoon immediately rose to her feet, her face soft with concern. "I'm sorry,
Tanis," she said gently. "We've been selfish. You are cold and weary and we've
kept you up talking. And we must be up early in the morning to board the
ship."
"Damn it, Goldmoon! Don't be a fool! We won't board any ship in this gale!"
Tanis snarled.
Everyone stared at him in astonishment, even Raistlin sat up. Goldmoon's eyes
were dark with pain, her face set in rigid lines, reminding the half-elf that
no one spoke to her in that tone. Riverwind stood beside her, a troubled look
on his face.
The silence grew uncomfortable. Finally Caramon cleared his throat with a
rumble. "If we can't leave tomorrow, we'll try the next day," he said
comfortably. "Don't worry about it, Tanis. The draconians won't be out in this
weather. We're safe-"
"I know. I'm sorry," he muttered. "I didn't mean to snap at you, Goldmoon.
It's been-nerve-racking-these last few days. I'm so tired I can't think
straight. I'll go to my room."
"The innkeeper gave it to someone else," Caramon said, then added hurriedly,
"but you can sleep here, Tanis. Take my bed-"
"No, I'll just lie down on the floor." Avoiding Goldmoon's gaze, Tanis began
unbuckling the dragonarmor, his eyes fixed firmly on his shaking fingers.
"Sleep well, my friend," Goldmoon said softly.
Hearing the concern in her voice, he could imagine her exchanging
compassionate glances with Riverwind. There was the Plainsman's hand on his
shoulder, giving him a sympathetic pat. Then they were gone. Tika left, too,
closing the door behind her after a murmured goodnight.
"Here, let me help you," Caramon offered, knowing that Tanis-unaccustomed to
wearing plate armor-found the intricate buckles and straps difficult to
manage. "Can I get you something to eat? Drink? Some mulled wine?"
"No," Tanis said wearily, divesting himself thankfully of the armor, trying
not to remember that in a few hours he would have to put it on again. "I just
need sleep."
"Here-at least take my blanket," Caramon insisted, seeing that the half-elf
was shivering with the cold.
Tanis accepted the blanket gratefully, although he was not certain whether he
was shaking with the chill or the violence of his turbulent emotions. Lying
down, he wrapped himself in both the blanket and his cloak. Then he closed his
eyes and concentrated on making his breathing even and regular, knowing that
the mother-hen, Caramon, would never sleep until he was certain Tanis was
resting comfortably. Soon he heard Caramon get into bed. The fire burned low,
darkness fell. After a moment, he heard Caramon's rumbling snore. In the other
bed, he could hear Raistlin's fitful cough.
When he was certain both the twins were asleep, Tanis stretched out, putting
his hands beneath his head. He lay awake, staring into the darkness.


It was near morning when the Dragon Highlord arrived back at the Saltbreeze
Inn. The night clerk could see immediately that the Highlord was in a foul
temper. Flinging open the door with more force than the gale winds, she glared
angrily into the inn, as if its warmth and comfort were offensive. Indeed, she
seemed to be at one with the storm outside. It was she who caused the candles
to flicker, rather than the howling wind. It was she who brought the darkness
indoors. The clerk stumbled fearfully to his feet, but the Highlord's eyes
were not on him. Kitiara was staring at a draconian, who sat at a table and
who signaled, by an almost imperceptible flicker in the dark reptilian eyes,
that something was awry.
Behind the hideous dragonmask, the Highlord's eyes narrowed alarmingly, their
expression grew cold. For a moment she stood in the doorway, ignoring the
chill wind that blew through the inn, whipping her cloak around her.
"Come upstairs," she said finally, ungraciously, to the draconian.
The creature nodded and followed after her, its clawed feet clicking on the
wooden floors.
"Is there anything-" the night clerk began, cringing as the door blew shut
with a shattering crash.
"No!" Kitiara snarled. Hand on the hilt of her sword, she stalked past the
quivering man without a glance and climbed the stairs to her suite of rooms,
leaving the man to sink back, shaken, into his chair.
Fumbling with her key, Kitiara threw open the door. She gave the room a quick
sweeping glance.
It was empty.
The draconian waited behind her, standing patiently and in silence.
Furious, Kitiara tugged viciously at the hinges on the dragonmask and yanked
it off. Tossing it on the bed, she spoke over her shoulder.
"Come inside and shut the door!"
The draconian did as it was commanded, closing the door softly.
Kitiara did not turn to face the creature. Hands on her hips, she stared
grimly at the rumpled bed.
"So-he's gone." It was a statement, not a question.
"Yes, Highlord," lisped the draconian in its hissing voice.
"You followed him, as I ordered?"
"Of course, Highlord." The draconian bowed.
"Where did he go?"
Kitiara ran a hand through her dark, curly hair. She still had not turned
around. The draconian could not see her face and he had no idea what
emotions-if any-she was keeping hidden.
"An inn, Highlord. Near the edge of town. Called the Jetties."
"Another woman?" The Highlord's voice was tense.
"I think not, Highlord." The draconian concealed a smile. "I believe he has
friends there. We had reports of strangers staying in the inn, but since they
did not match the description of the Green Gemstone Man, we did not
investigate them."
"Someone is there now, watching him?"
"Certainly, Highlord. You will be informed immediately if he-or any
inside-leaves the building."
The Highlord stood in silence for a moment, then she turned around. Her face
was cold and calm, although extremely pale. But there were a number of factors
that could have accounted for her pallor, the draconian thought. It was a long
flight from the High Clerist's Tower-rumor had it her armies had been badly
defeated there-the legendary dragonlance had reappeared, along with the dragon
orbs. Then there was her failure to find the Green Gemstone Man, so
desperately sought by the Queen of Darkness, and who was reported to have been
seen in Flotsam. The Highlord had a great many things to worry about, the
draconian thought with amusement. Why concern herself over one man? She had
lovers aplenty, most of them much more charming, much more eager to please
than that moody half-elf. Bakaris, for example . . .
"You have done well," Kitiara said finally, breaking in on the draconian's
musings. Stripping off her armor with a careless lack of modesty, she waved a
negligent hand. She almost seemed herself again. "You will be rewarded. Now
leave me."
The draconian bowed again and left, eyes staring at the floor. The creature
was not fooled. As it left, the dragonman saw the Highlord's gaze fall upon a
scrap of parchment resting on the table. The draconian had seen that parchment
upon entering. It was, the creature noted, covered with writing in a delicate
elvish script. As the draconian shut the door, there came a crashing sound-the
sound of a piece of dragonarmor being hurled full force against a wall.

2
Pursuit

The gale blew itself out toward morning. The sound of water dripping
monotonously from the eaves thudded in Tanis's aching head, almost making him
wish for a return of the shrieking wind. The sky was gray and lowering. Its
leaden weight pressed down upon the half-elf. "The seas will be running high,"
Caramon said sagely. Having listened eagerly to the sea stories told them by
William, the innkeeper of the Pig and Whistle in Port Balif or, Caramon
considered himself somewhat of an expert on nautical matters. None of the
others disputed him, knowing nothing about the sea themselves. Only Raistlin
regarded Caramon with a sneering smile when his brother-who had been on small
boats only a few times in his life-began talking like an old seadog.
"Maybe we shouldn't even risk going out-" Tika began.
"We're going. Today." Tanis said grimly. "If we have to swim, we're leaving
Flotsam."
The others glanced at each other, then looked back at Tanis. Standing, staring
out the window, he did not see their raised eyebrows or their shrugging
shoulders, though he was aware of them all the same.
The companions were gathered in the brothers' room. It would not be dawn for
another hour, but Tanis had awakened them as soon as he heard the wind cease
its savage howl.
He drew a deep breath, then turned to face them. "I'm sorry. I know I sound
arbitrary," he said, "but there are dangers I know about that I can't explain
right now. There isn't time. All I can tell you is this-we have never in our
lives been in more dire peril than we are at this moment in this town. We must
leave and we must leave now!" He heard a hysterical note creep into his voice
and broke off.
There was silence, then, "Sure, Tanis," Caramon said uneasily.
"We're all packed," Goldmoon added. "We can leave whenever you're ready."
"Let's go then," Tanis said.
"I've got to get my things," Tika faltered.
"Go on. Be quick," Tanis told her.
"I-I'll help her," Caramon offered in a low voice.
The big man, dressed, like Tanis, in the stolen armor of a dragonarmy officer,
and Tika left quickly, probably hoping to snatch time enough for a last few
minutes alone, Tanis thought, fuming in impatience. Goldmoon and Riverwind
left to gather their things as well. Raistlin remained in the room, not
moving. He had all he needed to carry with him-his pouches with his precious
spell components, the Staff of Magius, and the precious marble of the dragon
orb, tucked away inside its nondescript bag.
Tanis could feel Raistlin's strange eyes boring into him. It was as if
Raistlin could penetrate the darkness of the half-elf's soul with the
glittering light from those golden eyes. But still the mage said nothing. Why?
Tanis thought angrily. He would almost have welcomed Raistlin's questioning,
his accusations.

He would almost welcome a chance to unburden himself and tell the truth-even
though he knew what consequences would result.
But Raistlin was silent, except for his incessant cough.
Within a few minutes, the others came back inside the room.
"We're ready, Tanis," Goldmoon said in a subdued voice.
For a moment, Tanis couldn't speak. I'll tell them, he resolved. Taking a deep
breath, he turned around. He saw their faces, he saw trust, a belief in him.
They were following him without question. He couldn't let them down. He
couldn't shake this faith. It was all they had to cling to. Sighing, he
swallowed the words he had been about to speak.
"Right," he said gruffly and started toward the door.


Maquesta Kar-Thon was awakened from a sound sleep by a banging on her cabin
door. Accustomed to having her sleep interrupted at all hours, she was almost
immediately awake and reaching for her boots.
"What is it?" she called out.
Before the answer came, she was already getting the feel of the ship,
assessing the situation. A glance through the porthole showed her the gale
winds had died, but she could tell from the motion of the ship itself that the
seas were running high.
"The passengers are here," called out a voice she recognized as that of her
first mate.
Landlubbers, she thought bitterly, sighing and dropping the boot she had been
dragging on. "Send 'em back," she ordered, lying down again. "We're not
sailing today."
There seemed to be some sort of altercation going on outside, for she heard
her first mate's voice raised in anger and another voice shouting back.
Wearily Maquesta struggled to her feet. Her first mate, Bas Ohn-Koraf, was a
Minotaur-a race not noted for its easy-going temper. He was exceptionally
strong and was known to kill without provocation-one reason he had taken to
the sea. On a ship like the Perechon, no one asked questions about the past.
Throwing open the door to her cabin, Maq hurried up onto deck.
"What's going on?" she demanded in her sternest voice as her eyes went from
the bestial head of her first mate to the bearded face of what appeared to be
a dragonarmy officer. But she recognized the slightly slanted brown eyes of
the bearded man and fixed him with a cold stare. "I said we're not sailing
today, Half-Elf, and I meant-"
"Maquesta," Tanis said quickly, "I've got to talk to you!" He started to push
his way past the minotaur to reach her, but Koraf grabbed hold of him and
yanked him backwards. Behind Tanis, a larger dragonarmy officer growled and
took a step forward. The minotaur's eyes glistened eagerly as he deftly
slipped a dirk from the wide, bright-colored sash around his waist.
The crew above decks gathered around immediately, hoping for a fight.
"Caramon-" Tanis warned, holding out his hand restrainingly.
"Kof-!" Maquesta snapped with an angry look meant to remind her first mate
that these were paying customers and were not to be handled roughly, at least
while in sight of land.
The minotaur scowled, but the dirk disappeared as quickly as it had flashed
into the open. Kof turned and walked away disdainfully, the crew muttering in
disappointment, but still cheerful. It promised already to be an interesting
voyage.
Maquesta helped Tanis to his feet, studying the half-elf with the same intense
scrutiny she fixed on a man wanting to sign on as a crewmember. She saw at
once that the half-elf had changed drastically since she had seen him only
four days before, when he and the big man behind him closed the bargain for
passage aboard the Perechon.
He looks like he's been through the Abyss and back. Probably in some sort of
trouble, she decided ruefully. Well I'm not getting him out of it I Not at the
risk of my ship. Still, he and his friends had paid for half their passage.
And she needed the money. It was hard these days for a pirate to compete with
the Highlords...
"Come to my cabin," Maq said ungraciously, leading the way below.
"Stay with the others, Caramon," the half-elf told his companion. The big man
nodded. Glancing darkly at the minotaur, Caramon went back over to stand with
the rest of the companions who stood silently, huddled around their meager
belongings.
Tanis followed Maq down to her cabin and squeezed inside. Even two people in
the small cabin were a tight fit. The Perechon was a trim vessel, designed for
swift sailing and quick maneuvers. Ideal for Maquesta's trade, where it was
necessary to slip in and out of harbors quickly, unloading or picking up cargo
that wasn't necessarily hers either to pick up or deliver. On occasion, she
might enhance her income by catching a fat merchant ship sailing out of
Palanthas or Tarsis and slip up on it before it knew what was happening. Then
board it quickly, loot it, and make good her escape.
She was adept at outrunning the massive ships of the Dragon Highlords, too,
although she made it a point to leave them strictly alone. Too often now,
though, the Highlords' ships were seen "escorting" the merchant vessels.
Maquesta had lost money on her last two voyages, one reason why she had
deigned to carry passengers-something she would never do under normal
circumstances.
Removing his helm, the half-elf sat down at the table-or rather fell down,
since he was unaccustomed to the motion of the rocking ship. Maquesta remained
standing, balancing easily.
"Well, what is it you want?" she demanded, yawning. "I told you we can't sail.
The seas are-"
"We have to," Tanis said abruptly.
"Look," Maquesta said patiently (reminding herself he was a paying customer),
"if you're in some kind of trouble, it's not my concern! I'm not risking my
ship or my crew-"
"Not me," Tanis interrupted, looking at Maquesta intently, "you."
"Me?" Maquesta said, drawing back, amazed.
Tanis folded his hands on the table and gazed down at them. The pitching and
tossing of the vessel at anchor, combined with his exhaustion from the past
few days, made him nauseous. Seeing the faint green tinge of his skin beneath
his beard and the dark shadows under his hollow eyes, Maquesta thought she'd
seen corpses that looked better than this half-elf.
"What do you mean?" she asked tightly.
"I-I was captured by a Dragon Highlord . . . three days ago," Tanis began,
speaking in a low voice, staring at his hands. "No, I guess 'captured' is the
wrong word. H-He saw me dressed like this and assumed I was one of his men. I
had to accompany h-him back to his camp. I've been there-in camp-the last few
days, and I-I found out something. I know why the Highlord and the draconians
are searching Flotsam. I know what-who-they're looking for."
"Yes?" Maquesta prompted, feeling his fear creep over her like a contagious
disease. "Not the Perechon-"
"Your helmsman." Tanis finally looked up at her. "Berem."
"Berem!" Maquesta repeated, stunned. "What for? The man's a mute! A half-wit!
A good helmsman, maybe, but nothing more. What could he have done that the
Dragon Highlords are looking for him?"
"I don't know," Tanis said wearily, fighting his nausea. "I wasn't able to
find out. I'm not sure they know! But they're under orders to find him at all
costs and bring him alive to"-he closed his eyes to shut out the swaying
lamps-"the Dark Queen..."
The breaking light of dawn threw slanted red beams across the sea's rough
surface. For an instant it shone on Maq's glistening black skin, a flash like
fire came from her golden earrings that dangled nearly to her shoulders.
Nervously she ran her fingers through her closely cropped black hair.
Maquesta felt her throat close. "We'll get rid of him!" she muttered tightly,
pushing herself up from the table. "We'll put him ashore. I can find another
helmsman-"
"Listen!" Catching hold of Maquesta's arm, Tanis gripped her lightly, forcing
her to stop. "They may already know he's here! Even if they don't and they
catch him, it won't make any difference. Once they find out he was here, on
this vessel-and they will find out, believe me; there are ways of making even
a mute talk-they'll arrest you and everyone on this ship. Arrest you or get
rid of you."
He dropped his hand from her arm, realizing he hadn't the strength to hold
her. "It's what they've done in the past. I know. The Highlord told me. Whole
villages destroyed. People tortured, murdered. Anyone this man comes in
contact with is doomed. They fear whatever deadly secret he carries will be
passed on, and they can't allow that."
Maquesta sat down. "Berem?" she whispered softly, unbelievingly.
"They couldn't do anything because of the storm," Tanis said wearily, "and the
Highlord was called away to Solamnia, some battle there. But sh-the Highlord
will be back today. And then-" He couldn't go on. His head sank into his hands
as a shudder racked his body.
Maquesta eyed him warily. Could this be true? Or was he making all this up to
force her to take him away from some danger? Watching him slump miserably over
the table. Maquesta swore softly. The ship's captain was a shrewd judge of
men. She needed to be, in order to control her rough-and-ready crew. And she
knew the half-elf wasn't lying. At least, not much. She suspected there were
things he wasn't telling, but this story about Berem-as strange as it
seemed-had the ring of truth.
It all made sense, she thought uneasily, cursing herself. She prided herself
on her judgment, her good sense. Yet she had turned a blind eye to Berem's
strangeness. Why? Her lip curled in derision. She liked him-admit it. He was
like a child, cheerful, guileless. And so she had overlooked his unwillingness
to go ashore, his fear of strangers, his eagerness to work for a pirate when
he refused to share in the loot they captured. Maquesta sat a moment, getting
the feel of her ship. Glancing outside, she watched the golden sun glint off
the white caps, then the sun vanished, swallowed by the lowering gray clouds.
It would be dangerous, taking the ship out, but if the wind was right-
"I'd rather be out on the open sea," she murmured, more to herself than to
Tanis, "than trapped like a rat on shore."
Making up her mind, Maq rose quickly and started for the door. Then she heard
Tanis groan. Turning around, she regarded him pityingly.
"Come on, Half-Elf," Maquesta said, not unkindly. She put her arms around him
and helped him stand. "You'll feel better above deck in the fresh air.
Besides, you'll need to tell your friends that this isn't going to be what you
might call a 'relaxing ocean voyage.' Do you know the risk you're taking?"
Tanis nodded. Leaning heavily on Maquesta, he walked across the heaving deck.
"You're not telling me everything, that's for certain," Maquesta said under
her breath as she kicked open the cabin door and helped Tanis struggle up the
stairs to the main deck. "I'll wager Berem's not the only one the Highlord's
looking for. But I have a feeling this isn't the first bad weather you and
your crew have ridden out. I just hope your luck holds!"
The Perechon wallowed in the high seas. Riding under short sail, the ship
seemed to make little headway, fighting for every inch it gained. Fortunately,
the wind backed. Blowing steadily from the southwest, it was taking them
straight into the Blood Sea of Istar. Since they were heading for Kalaman,
northwest of Flotsam, around the cape of Nordmaar, this was a little out of
their way. But Maquesta didn't mind. She wanted to avoid land as much as
possible.
There was even the possibility, she told Tanis, that they could sail northeast
and arrive in Mithras, homeland of the minotaurs. Although a few minotaurs
fought in the armies of the Highlords, the minotaurs in general had not yet
sworn allegiance to the Dark Queen. According to Koraf, the minotaurs wanted
control of eastern Ansalon in return for their services. And control of the
east had just been handed over to a new Dragon Highlord, a hobgoblin called
Toede. The minotaurs had no love for humans or elves, but-at this point in
time- neither had they any use for the Highlords. Maq and her crew had
sheltered in Mithras before. They would be safe there again, at least for a
little while.
Tanis was not happy at this delay, but his fate was no longer in his hands.
Thinking of this, the half-elf glanced over at the man who stood alone at the
center of a whirlwind of blood and flame. Berem was at the helm, guiding the
wheel with firm, sure hands, his vacant face unconcerned, unworried.
Tanis, staring hard at the helmsman's shirtfront, thought perhaps he could
detect a faint glimmer of green. What dark secret beat in the chest where,
months ago at Pax Tharkas, he had seen the green glowing jewel embedded in the
man's flesh? Why were hundreds of draconians wasting their time, searching for
this one man when the war still hung in balance? Why was Kitiara so desperate
to find Berem that she had given up command of her forces in Solamnia to
supervise the search of Flotsam on just a rumor that he had been seen there?
"He is the key!" Tanis remembered Kitiara's words. " If we capture him, Krynn
will fall to the might of the Dark Queen. There will be no force in the land
able to defeat us then!"
Shivering, his stomach heaving, Tanis stared at the man in awe. Berem seemed
so-so apart from everything, beyond everything-as if the problems of the world
affected him not at all. Was he half-witted, as Maquesta said? Tanis wondered.
He remembered Berem as he had seen him for those few brief seconds in the
midst of the horror of Pax Tharkas. He remembered the look on the man's face
as he allowed the traitor Eben to lead him away in a desperate attempt to
escape. The look on his face had not been fearful or dull or uncaring. It had
been-what? Resigned! That was it! As if he knew the fate that awaited him and
went ahead anyway. Sure enough, just as Berem and Eben reached the gates,
hundreds of tons of rocks had cascaded down from the gate-blocking mechanism,
burying them beneath boulders it would take a dragon to lift. Both bodies were
lost, of course.
Or at least Eben's body was lost. Only weeks later, during the celebration of
the wedding of Goldmoon and Riverwind, Tanis and Sturm had seen Berem
again-alive! Before they could catch him, the man had vanished into the crowd.
And they had not seen him again. Not until Tanis found him three-no, four-days
ago, calmly sewing a sail on this ship.
Berem steered the ship on its course, his face filled with peace. Tanis leaned
over the ship's side and retched.
Maquesta said nothing to the crew about Berem. In explanation of their sudden
departure, she said only that she had received word that the Dragon Highlord
was a bit too interested in their ship-it would be wise to head for the open
seas. None of the crew questioned her. They had no love for the Highlords, and
most had been in Flotsam long enough to lose all their money anyway.
Nor did Tanis reveal to his friends the reason for their haste. The companions
had all heard the story of the man with the green gemstone and, though they
were too polite to say so (with the exception of Caramon), Tanis knew they
thought he and Sturm had drunk one too many toasts at the wedding. They did
not ask for reasons why they were risking their lives in the rough seas. Their
faith in him was complete.
Suffering from bouts of seasickness and torn by gnawing guilt, Tanis hunched
miserably upon the deck, staring out to sea. Goldmoon's healing powers had
helped him recover somewhat, though there was apparently little even clerics
could do for the turmoil in his stomach. But the turmoil in his soul was
beyond her help.
He sat upon the deck, staring out to sea, fearing always to see the sails of a
ship on the horizon. The others, perhaps because they were better rested, were
little affected by the erratic motion of the ship as it swooped through the
choppy water, except that all were wet to the skin from an occasional high
wave breaking over the side.
Even Raistlin-Caramon was astonished to see-appeared quite comfortable. The
mage sat apart from the others, crouched beneath a sail one of the sailors had
rigged to help keep the passengers as dry as possible. The mage was not sick.
He did not even cough much. He just seemed lost in thought, his golden eyes
glittering brighter than the morning sun that flickered in and out of view
behind the racing storm clouds.
Maquesta shrugged when Tanis mentioned his fears of pursuit. The Perechon was
faster than the Highlords' massive ships. They'd been able to sneak out of the
harbor safely-the only other ships aware of their going were pirate ships like
themselves. In that brotherhood, no one asked questions.
The seas grew calmer, flattening out beneath the steady breeze. All day, the
storm clouds lowered threateningly, only to be finally blown to shreds by the
freshening wind. The night was clear and starlit. Maquesta was able to add
more sail. The ship flew over the water. By morning, the companions awakened
to one of the most dreadful sights in all of Krynn.
They were on the outer edge of the Blood Sea of Istar.
The sun was a huge, golden ball balanced upon the eastern horizon when the
Perechon first sailed into the water that was red as the robes the mage wore,
red as the blood that flecked his lips when he coughed.
"It is well-named," Tanis said to Riverwind as they stood on deck, staring out
into the red, murky water. They could not see far ahead. A perpetual storm
hung from the sky, shrouding the water in a curtain of leaden gray.
"I did not believe it," Riverwind said solemnly, shaking his head. "I heard
William tell of it and I listened as I listened to his tales of sea dragons
that swallow ships and women with the tails of fish instead of legs. But
this-" The barbarian Plainsman shook his head, eyeing the blood-colored water
uneasily.
"Do you suppose it's true that this is the blood of all those who died in
Istar when the fiery mountain struck the Kingpriest's temple?" Goldmoon asked
softly, coming to stand beside her husband.
"What nonsense!" Maquesta snorted. Walking across the deck to join them, her
eyes flicked constantly around to make certain that she was getting the most
out of her ship and her crew.
"You've been listening to Pig-faced William again!" She laughed. "He loves to
frighten lubbers. The water gets its color from soil washed up from the
bottom. Remember, this is not sand we're sailing over, like the bottom of the
ocean. This used to be dry land-the capital city of Istar and the rich
countryside around it. When the fiery mountain fell, it split the land apart.
The waters from the ocean rushed in, creating a new sea. Now the wealth of
Istar lies far beneath the waves."
Maquesta stared over the railing with dreamy eyes, as if she could penetrate
the choppy water and see the rumored wealth of the glittering lost city below.
She sighed longingly. Gold-moon glanced at the swarthy ship's captain in
disgust, her own eyes filled with sadness and horror at the thought of the
terrible destruction and loss of life.
"What keeps the soil stirred up?" Riverwind asked, frowning down at the
blood-red water. "Even with the motion of the waves and the tides, the heavy
soil should settle more than it appears to have."
"Truly spoken, barbarian." Maquesta looked at the tall, handsome Plainsman
with admiration. "But then, your people are farmers, or so I've heard, and
know a lot about soil. If you put your hand into the water, you can feel the
grit of the dirt. Supposedly there is a maelstrom in the center of the Blood
Sea that whirls with such force it drags the soil up from the bottom. But
whether that is true or another one of Pig-face's stories, I cannot say. I
have never seen it, nor have any I've sailed with and I've sailed these waters
since I was a child, learning my craft from my father. No one I ever knew was
foolish enough to sail into the storm that hangs over the center of the sea."
"How do we get to Mithras, then?" Tanis growled. "It lies on the other side of
the Blood Sea, if your charts are correct."
"We can reach Mithras by sailing south, if we are pursued. If not, we can
circle the western edge of the Sea and sail up the coast north to Nordmaar.
Don't worry, Half-Elven." Maq waved her hand grandly. "At least you can say
you've seen the Blood Sea. One of the wonders of Krynn." Turning to walk aft,
Maquesta was hailed from the crow's nest.
"Deck ho! Sail to the west!" the lookout called.
Instantly Maquesta and Koraf both pulled out spyglasses and trained them upon
the western horizon. The companions exchanged worried glances and drew
together. Even Raistlin left his place beneath the shielding sail and walked
across the deck, peering westward with his golden eyes.
"A ship?" Maquesta muttered to Koraf.
"No," the minotaur grunted in his corrupt form of Common.
"A cloud, mebbe. But it go fast, very fast. Faster any cloud I ever see."
Now they all could make out the specks of darkness on the horizon, specks that
grew larger even as they watched.
Then Tanis felt a wrenching pain inside of him, as if he'd been pierced by a
sword. The pain was so swift and so real he gasped, clutching hold of Caramon
to keep from falling. The rest stared at him in concern, Caramon wrapping his
big arm around his friend to support him.
Tanis knew what flew towards them.
And he knew who led them.
Gathering darkness.
"Flight of dragons," said Raistlin, coming to stand beside his brother. "Five,
I believe."
"Dragons!" Maquesta breathed. For a moment, she clutched the rail with
trembling hands, then she whirled around. "Set all sail!" she commanded.
The crew stared westward, their eyes and minds locked onto the approaching
terror. Maquesta raised her voice and shouted her order again, her only
thoughts on her beloved ship. The strength and calmness in her voice
penetrated the first faint feelings of dragonfear creeping over the crew.
Instinctively a few sprang to carry out their orders, then more followed.
Koraf with his whip helped as well, striking briskly at any man who didn't
move quickly enough to suit him. Within moments, the great sails billowed out.
Lines creaked ominously, the rigging sang a whining tune.
"Keep her near the edge of the storm!" Maq yelled to Berem. The man nodded
slowly, but it was hard to tell from the vacant expression on his face if he
heard or not.
Apparently he did, for the Perechon hovered close to the perpetual storm that
shrouded the Blood Sea, skimming along on the surface of the waves, propelled
by the storm's fog-gray wind.
It was reckless sailing, and Maq knew it. Let a spar be blown away, a sail
split, a line break, and they would be helpless. But she had to take the risk.
"Useless," Raistlin remarked coolly. "You cannot outsail dragons. Look, see
how fast they gain on us. You were followed, Half-Elf." He turned to Tanis.
'You were followed when you left the camp . . . either that"-the mage's voice
hissed- "or you led them to us!"
"No! I swear-" Tanis stopped.
The drunken draconian!... Tanis shut his eyes, cursing himself. Of course Kit
would have had him watched! She didn't trust him any more than she trusted the
other men who shared her bed. What a damn egotistical fool he was! Believing
he was something special to her, believing she loved him! She loved no one.
She was incapable of loving-
"I was followed!" Tanis said through clenched teeth. "You must believe me. I-I
may have been a fool. I didn't think they'd follow me in that storm. But I
didn't betray you! I swear!"
"We believe you, Tanis," Goldmoon said, coming to stand beside him, glancing
at Raistlin angrily out of the comer of her eyes.
Raistlin said nothing, but his lip curled in a sneer. Tanis avoided his gaze,
turning instead to watch the dragons. They could see the creatures clearly
now. They could see the enormous wingspans, the long tails snaking out behind,
the cruel taloned feet hanging beneath the huge blue bodies.
"One has a rider," Maquesta reported grimly, the spyglass to her eye. "A rider
with a homed mask."
"A Dragon Highlord," Caramon stated unnecessarily, all of them knowing well
enough what that description meant. The big man turned a somber gaze to Tanis.
"You better tell us what's going on, Tanis. If this Highlord thought you were
a soldier under his own command, why has he taken the trouble to have you
followed and come out after you?"
Tanis started to speak, but his faltering words were submerged in an agonized,
inarticulate roar; a roar of mingled fear and terror and rage that was so
beastlike, it wrenched everyone's thoughts from the dragons. It came from near
the ship's helm. Hands on their weapons, the companions turned. The
crewmembers halted their frantic labors, Koraf came to a dead stop, his
bestial face twisted in amazement as the roaring sound grew louder and more
fearful.
Only Maq kept her senses. "Berem," she called, starting to run across the
deck, her fear giving her sudden horrifying insight into his mind. She leaped
across the deck, but it was too late.
A look of insane terror on his face, Berem fell silent, staring at the
approaching dragons. Then he roared again, a garbled howl of fear that chilled
even the minotaur's blood. Above him, the sails were tight in the wind, the
rigging stretched taut. The ship, under all the sail it could bear, seemed to
leap over the waves, leaving a trail of white foam behind. But still the
dragons gained.
Maq had nearly reached him when, shaking his head like a wounded animal, Berem
spun the wheel,
"No! Berem!" Maquesta shrieked.
Berem's sudden move brought the small ship around so fast he nearly sent it
under. The mizzenmast snapped with the strain as the ship heeled. Rigging,
shrouds, sails, and men plummeted to the deck or fell into the Blood Sea.
Grabbing hold of Maq, Koraf dragged her clear of the falling mast. Caramon
caught his brother in his arms and hurled him to the deck, covering Raistlin's
frail body with his own as the tangle of rope and splintered wood crashed over
them. Sailors tumbled to the deck or slammed up against the bulkheads. From
down below, they could hear the sound of cargo breaking free. The companions
clung to the ropes or whatever they could grab, hanging on desperately as it
seemed Berem would run the ship under. Sails flapped horribly, like dead
bird's wings, the rigging went slack, the ship floundered helplessly.
But the skilled helmsman, though seemingly mad with panic, was a sailor still.
Instinctively he held the wheel in a firm grip when it would have spun free.
Slowly, he nursed the ship back into the wind with the care of a mother
hovering over a deathly sick child. Slowly the Perechon righted herself. Sails
that had been limp and lifeless caught the wind and filled. The Perechon came
about and headed on her new course.
It was only then that everyone on board realized that sinking into the sea
might have been a quicker and easier death as a gray shroud of wind-swept mist
engulfed the ship.
"He's mad! He's steering us into the storm over the Blood Sea!" Maquesta said
in a cracked, nearly inaudible voice as she pulled herself to her feet. Koraf
started toward Berem, his face twisted in a snarl, a belaying pin in his hand.
"No! Kof!" Maquesta gasped, grabbing hold of him. "Maybe Berem's right! This
could be our only chance! The dragons won't dare follow us into the storm.
Berem got us into this, he's the only helmsman we've got with a chance of
getting us out! If we can just keep on the outskirts-"
A jagged flash of lightning tore through the gray curtain. The mists parted,
revealing a gruesome sight. Black clouds swirled in the roaring wind, green
lightning cracked, charging the air with the acrid smell of sulphur. The red
water heaved and tossed. White caps bubbled on the surface, like froth on the
mouth of a dying man. No one could move for an instant. They could only stare,
feeling petty and small against the awesome forces of nature. Then the wind
hit them. The ship pitched and tossed, dragged over by the trailing, broken
mast. Sudden rain slashed down, hail clattered on the wooden deck, the gray
curtain closed around them once more.
Under Maquesta's orders, men scrambled aloft to reef the remaining sails.
Another parry worked desperately to clear the broken mast that was swinging
around wildly. The sailors attacked it with axes, cutting away the ropes,
letting it fall into the blood-red water. Free of the mast's dragging weight,
the ship slowly righted itself. Though still tossed by the wind, under
shortened sail, the Perechon seemed capable of riding out the storm, even with
one mast gone.
The immediate peril had nearly driven all thoughts of dragons from their
minds. Now that it seemed they might live a few moments longer, the companions
turned to stare through the driving, leaden gray rain.
"Do you think we've lost them?" Caramon asked. The big warrior was bleeding
from a savage cut on his head. His eyes showed the pain. But his concern was
all for his brother. Raistlin staggered beside him, uninjured, but coughing so
he could barely stand.
Tanis shook his head grimly. Glancing around quickly to see if anyone was
hurt, he motioned the group to keep together. One by one, they stumbled
through the rain, clinging to the ropes until they were gathered around the
half-elf. All of them stared back out over the tossing seas.
At first they saw nothing; it was hard to see the bow of the ship through the
rain and wind-tossed seas. Some of the sailors even raised a ragged cheer,
thinking they had lost them.
But Tanis, his eyes looking to the west, knew that nothing short of death
itself would stop the Highlord's pursuit. Sure enough, the sailor's cheers
changed to cries of shock when the head of a blue dragon suddenly cleaved the
gray clouds, its fiery eyes blazing red with hatred, its fanged mouth gaping
open.
The dragon flew closer still, its great wings holding steady even though
buffeted by gusts of wind and rain and hail. A Dragon Highlord sat upon the
blue dragon's back. The Highlord held no weapon, Tanis saw bitterly. She
needed no weapon. She would take Berem, then her dragon would destroy the rest
of them. Tanis bowed his head, sick with the knowledge of what would come,
sick with the knowledge that he was responsible.
Then he looked up. There was a chance, he thought frantically. Maybe she won't
recognize Berem . . . and she wouldn't dare destroy them all for fear of
harming him. Turning to look at the helmsman, Tanis's wild hope died at birth.
It seemed the gods were conspiring against them.
The wind had blown Berem's shirt open. Even through the gray curtain of rain,
Tanis could see the green jewel embedded in the man's chest glow more
brilliantly than the green lightning, a terrible beacon shining through the
storm. Berem did not notice. He did not even see the dragon. His eyes stared
with fixed intensity into the storm as he steered the ship farther and farther
into the Blood Sea of Istar.
Only two people saw that glittering jewel. Everyone else was held in thrall by
the dragonfear, unable to look away from the huge blue creature soaring above
them. Tanis saw the gemstone-as he had seen it before, months ago. And the
Dragon Highlord saw it. The eyes behind the metal mask were drawn to the
glowing jewel, then the Highlord's eyes met Tanis's eyes as the half-elf stood
upon the storm-tossed deck.
A sudden gust of wind caught the blue dragon. It veered slightly, but the
Highlord's gaze never wavered. Tanis saw the horrifying future in those brown
eyes. The dragon would swoop down upon them and snatch Berem up in its claws.
The Highlord would exult in her victory for a long agonizing moment, then she
would order the dragon to destroy them all....
Tanis saw this in her eyes as clearly as he had seen the passion in them only
days before when he held her in his arms.
Never taking her eyes from him, the Dragon Highlord raised a gloved hand. It
might have been a signal to the dragon to dive down upon them; it might have
been a farewell to Tanis. He never knew, because at that moment a shattered
voice shouted above the roar of the storm with unbelievable power.
"Kitiara!" Raistlin cried.
Shoving Caramon aside, the mage ran toward the dragon. Slipping on the wet
deck, his red robes whipped about him in the wind that was blowing stronger
every moment. A sudden gust tore the hood from his head. Rain glistened on his
metallic-colored skin, his hourglass eyes gleamed golden through the gathering
darkness of the storm.
The Dragon Highlord grabbed her mount by the spikey mane along his blue neck,
pulling the dragon up so sharply that Skie roared in protest. She stiffened in
shock, her brown eyes grew wide behind the dragonhelm as she stared down at
the frail half-brother she had raised from a baby. Her gaze shifted slightly
as Caramon came to stand beside his twin.
"Kitiara?" Caramon whispered in a strangled voice, his face pale with horror
as he watched the dragon hovering above them, riding the winds of the storm.
The Highlord turned the masked head once more to look at Tanis, then her eyes
went to Berem. Tanis caught his breath. He saw the turmoil in her soul
reflected in those eyes.
To get Berem, she would have to kill the little brother who had learned all of
what he knew about swordsmanship from her. She would have to kill his frail
twin. She would have to kill a man she had-once-loved. Then Tanis saw her eyes
grow cold, and he shook his head in despair. It didn't matter. She would kill
her brothers, she would kill him. Tanis remembered her words, "Capture Berem
and we will have all Krynn at our feet. The Dark Queen will reward us beyond
anything we ever dreamed!"
Kitiara pointed at Berem and loosed her hold upon the dragon. With a cruel
shriek, Skie prepared to dive. But Kitiara's moment of hesitation proved
disastrous. Steadfastly ignoring her, Berem had steered the ship deeper and
deeper into the heart of the storm. The wind howled, snapping the rigging.
Waves crashed over the bows. The rain slashed down like knives and hailstones
began to pile up on the deck, coating it with ice.
Suddenly the dragon was in trouble. A gust of wind hit him, then another.
Skie's wings beat frantically as gust after gust pummeled him. The hail
drummed upon his head and threatened to tear through the leathery wings. Only
the supreme will of his master kept Skie from fleeing this perilous storm and
flying to the safety of calmer skies.
Tanis saw Kitiara gesture furiously toward Berem. He saw Skie make a valiant
effort to fly closer to the helmsman.
Then a gust of wind hit the ship. A wave broke over them. Water cascaded
around them, foaming white, knocking men off their feet and sending them
skidding across the deck. The ship listed. Everyone grabbed what they
could-ropes, netting, anything-to keep from being washed overboard.
Berem fought the wheel, which was like a living thing, leaping in his hands.
Sails split in two, men disappeared into the Blood Sea with terrifying
screams. Then, slowly, the ship righted itself again, the wood creaking with
the strain. Tanis looked up quickly.
The dragon-and Kitiara-were gone.
Freed from the dragonfear, Maquesta sprang into action, determined once more
to save her dying ship. Shouting orders, she ran forward and stumbled into
Tika.
"Get below, you lubbers!" Maquesta shouted furiously to Tanis above the storm
wind. 'Take your friends and get below! You're in our way! Use my cabin."
Numbly, Tanis nodded. Acting by instinct, feeling as if he were in a senseless
dream filled with howling darkness, he led everyone below.
The haunted look in Caramon's eyes pierced his heart as the big man staggered
past him, carrying his brother. Raistlin's golden eyes swept over him like
flame, burning his soul. Then they were past him, stumbling with the others
into the small cabin that shivered and rocked, tossing them about like rag
dolls.
Tanis waited until everyone was safely inside the tiny cabin, then he slumped
against the wooden door, unable to turn around, unable to face them. He had
seen the haunted look in Caramon's eyes as the big man staggered past, he had
seen the exultant gleam in Raistlin's eyes. He heard Goldmoon weeping quietly
and he wished he might die on this spot before he had to face her.
But that was not to be. Slowly he turned around. Riverwind stood next to
Goldmoon, his face dark and brooding as he braced himself between ceiling and
deck. Tika bit her lip, tears sliding down her cheeks. Tanis stayed by the
door, his back against it, staring at his friends mutely. For long moments, no
one said a word. All that could be heard was the storm, the waves crashing
onto the deck. Water trickled down on them. They were wet and cold and shaking
with fear and sorrow and shock.
"I-I'm sorry," Tanis began, licking his salt-coated lips. His throat hurt, he
could barely speak. "I-I wanted to tell you-"
"So that's where you were these four days," Caramon said in a soft, low voice.
"With our sister. Our sister, the Dragon Highlord!"
Tanis hung his head. The ship listed beneath his feet, sending him staggering
into Maquesta's desk, which was bolted to the floor. He caught himself and
slowly pushed himself back to face them. The half-elf had endured much pain in
his life-pain of prejudice, pain of loss, pain of knives, arrows, swords. But
he did not think he could endure this pain. The look of betrayal in their eyes
ran straight through his soul.
"Please, you must believe me..." What a stupid thing to say! he thought
savagely. Why should they believe me! I've done nothing but lie to them ever
since I returned. "All right," he began again, "I know you don't have any
reason to believe me, but at least listen to me! I was walking through Flotsam
when an elf attacked me. Seeing me in this get-up"-Tanis gestured at his
dragonarmor-"he thought I was a dragon officer. Kitiara saved my life, then
she recognized me. She thought I had joined the dragonarmy! What could I say?
She"-Tanis swallowed and wiped his hand across his face-"she took me back to
the inn and-and-" He choked, unable to continue.
"And you spent four days and nights in the loving embrace of a Dragon
Highlord!" Caramon said, his voice rising in fury. Lurching to his feet, he
stabbed an accusing finger at Tanis. "Then after four days, you needed a
little rest! So you remembered us and you came calling to make certain we were
still waiting for you! And we were! Just like the bunch of trusting
lame-brains-"
"All right, so I was with Kitiara!" Tanis shouted, suddenly angry. "Yes, I
loved her! I don't expect you to understand-any of you! But I never betrayed
you! I swear by the gods! When she left for Solamnia, it was the first chance
I had to escape and I took it. A draconian followed me, apparently under Kit's
orders. I may be a fool. But I'm not a traitor!"
"Pah!" Raistlin spit on the floor.
"Listen, mage!" Tanis snarled. "If I had betrayed you, why was she so shocked
to see you two-her brothers! If I had betrayed you, why didn't I just send a
few draconians to the inn to pick you up? I could have, any time. I could have
sent them to pick up Berem, too. He's the one she wants. He's the one the
draconians are searching for in Flotsam! I knew he was on this ship. Kitiara
offered me the rulership of Krynn if I'd tell her. That's how important he is.
All I would've had to do was lead Kit to him and the Queen of Darkness herself
would have rewarded me!"
"Don't tell us you didn't consider it!" Raistlin hissed.
Tanis opened his mouth, then fell silent. He knew his guilt was as plain on
his face as the beard no true elf could grow. He choked, then put his hand
over his eyes to block out their faces. "I-I loved her," he said brokenly.
"All these years. I refused to see what she was. And even when I knew-I
couldn't help myself. You love"-his eyes went to Riverwind-"and you"- turning
to Caramon. The boat pitched again. Tanis gripped the side of the desk as he
felt the deck cant away beneath his feet. "What would you have done? For five
years, she's been in my dreams!" He stopped. They were quiet. Caramon's face
was unusually thoughtful. Riverwind's eyes were on Goldmoon.
"When she was gone," Tanis continued, his voice soft and filled with pain. "I
lay in her bed and I hated myself. You may hate me now, but you cannot hate me
as much as I loathe and despise what I have become! I thought of Laurana and-"
Tanis fell silent, raising his head. Even as he talked, he had become aware of
the motion of the ship changing. The rest glanced around, too. It did not take
an experienced seaman to notice that they were no longer pitching around
wildly. Now they were running in a smooth forward motion, a motion somehow
more ominous because it was so unnatural. Before anyone could wonder what it
meant, a crashing knock nearly split the cabin door.
"Maquesta she say get up here!" shouted Koraf hoarsely.
Tanis cast one swift glance around at his friends. Riverwind's face was dark;
his eyes met Tanis's and held them, but there was no light in them. The
Plainsman had long distrusted all who were not human. Only after weeks of
danger faced together had he come to love and trust Tanis as a brother. Had
all that been shattered? Tanis looked at him steadily. Riverwind lowered his
gaze and, without a word, started to walk past Tanis, then he stopped.
"You are right, my friend," he said, glancing at Goldmoon who was rising to
her feet. "I have loved." Without another word, he turned abruptly and went up
on deck.
Goldmoon gazed mutely as Tanis as she followed her husband, and he saw
compassion and understanding in that silent look. He wished he understood,
that he could be so forgiving.
Caramon hesitated, then walked past him without speaking or looking at him.
Raistlin followed silently, his head turning, keeping his golden eyes on Tanis
every step of the way. Was there a hint of glee in those golden eyes? Long
mistrusted by the others, was Raistlin happy to have company in ignominy at
last? The half-elf had no idea what the mage might be thinking. Then Tika went
past him, giving him a gentle pat on the arm. She knew what it was to love. .
..
Tanis stood a moment alone in the cabin, lost in his own darkness. Then, with
a sigh, he followed his friends.
As soon as he set foot on the deck, Tanis realized what had happened. The
others were staring over the side, their faces pale and strained. Maquesta
paced the foredeck, shaking her head and swearing fluently in her own
language.
Hearing Tanis approach, she looked up, hatred in her black flashing eyes.
"You have destroyed us," she said venomously. "You and the god-cursed
helmsman!"
Maquesta's words seemed redundant, a repetition of words resounding in his own
mind. Tanis began to wonder if she had even spoken, or if it was himself he
was hearing.
"We are caught in the maelstrom."

4
"My brother..."

The Perechon hurtled forward, skimming along on top of the water as lightly as
a bird, but it was a bird with its wings clipped, riding the swirling tide of
a watery cyclone into a blood-red darkness. The terrible force of the vortex
pulled the seawaters smooth, until they looked like painted glass, as a
hollow, eternal roar swelled from the black depths. Even the storm clouds
circled endlessly above it, as if all nature were caught in the maelstrom,
hurtling to its own destruction. Tanis gripped the rail with hands that ached
from the tension. Staring into the dark heart of the whirlpool, he felt no
fear, no terror-only a strange numb sensation. It didn't matter anymore. Death
would be swift and welcome.
Everyone on board the doomed ship stood silently, their eyes wide with the
horror of what they saw. They were still some distance from the center; the
whirlpool was miles and miles in diameter. Smoothly and swiftly, the water
flowed. Above them and around them the winds still howled, the rain still beat
upon their faces. But it didn't matter. They didn't notice it anymore. All
they saw was that they were being carried relentlessly into the center of the
darkness.
This fearsome sight was enough to wake Berem from his lethargy. After the
first shock, Maquesta began shouting frantic orders. Dazedly, the men carried
them out, but their efforts were useless. Sails rigged against the whirling
wind tore apart; ropes snapped, flinging men screaming into the water. Try as
he might, Berem could not turn the ship or break it free of the water's
fearsome grip. Koraf added his strength to the handling of the wheel, but they
might as well have been trying to stop the world from revolving.
Then Berem quit. His shoulders sagged. He stood staring out into the swirling
depths, ignoring Maquesta, ignoring Koraf. His face was calm, Tanis saw; the
same calm Tanis remembered seeing on Berem's face at Pax Tharkas when he took
Eben's hand and ran with him into that deadly wall of cascading boulders. The
green jewel in his chest glowed with an eerie light, reflecting the blood red
of the water.
Tanis felt a strong hand clutch his shoulder, shaking him out of his rapt
horror.
'Tanis! Where's Raistlin?"
Tanis turned. For a moment he stared at Caramon without recognition, then he
shrugged.
"What does it matter?" he muttered bitterly. "Let him die where he chooses-"
"Tanis!" Caramon took him by the shoulders and shook him. 'Tanis! The dragon
orb! His magic! Maybe it can help-"
Tanis came awake. "By all the gods! You're right, Caramon!"
The half-elf looked around swiftly, but he saw no sign of the mage. A cold
chill crept over him. Raistlin was capable either of helping them or of
helping himself! Dimly Tanis remembered the elven princess, Alhana, saying the
dragon orbs had been imbued by their magical creators with a strong sense of
self-preservation.
"Below!" Tanis yelled. Leaping for the hatch, he heard Caramon pounding along
behind.
"What is it?" called Riverwind from the rail.
Tanis shouted over his shoulder. "Raistlin. The dragon orb. Don't come. Let
Caramon and I handle this. You stay here, with them."
"Caramon-" Tika yelled, starting to run after until Riverwind caught her and
held her. Giving the warrior an anguished look, she fell silent, slumping back
against the rail.
Caramon did not notice. He plunged ahead of Tanis, his huge body moving
remarkably fast. Tumbling down the stairway below decks after him, Tanis saw
the door to Maquesta's cabin open, swinging on its hinges with the motion of
the ship. The half-elf dashed in and came to a sudden stop, just inside the
door, as if he had run headlong into a wall.
Raistlin stood in the center of the small cabin. He had lit a candle in a lamp
clamped to the bulkheads. The flame made the mage's face glisten like a metal
mask, his eyes flared with golden fire. In his hands, Raistlin held the dragon
orb, their prize from Silvanesti. It had grown, Tanis saw. It was now the size
of child's ball, a myriad of colors swirling within it. Tanis grew dizzy
watching and wrenched his gaze away.
In front of Raistlin stood Caramon, the big warrior's face as white as Tanis
had seen his corpse in the Silvanesti dream when the warrior lay dead at his
feet.
Raistlin coughed, clutching at his chest with one hand. Tanis started forward,
but the mage looked up quickly.
"Don't come near me, Tanis!" Raistlin gasped through bloodstained lips.
"What are you doing?"
"I am fleeing certain death, Half-Elf!" The mage laughed unpleasantly, the
strange laughter Tanis had heard only twice before. "What do you think I am
doing?"
"How?" Tanis asked, feeling a strange fear creep over him as he looked into
the mage's golden eyes and saw them reflect the swirling light of the orb.
"Using my magic. And the magic of the dragon orb. It is quite simple, though
probably beyond your weak mind. I now have the power to harness the energy of
my corporeal body and the energy of my spirit into one. I will become pure
energy-light, if you want to think of it that way. And, becoming light, I can
travel through the heavens like the rays of the sun, returning to this
physical world whenever and wherever I choose!"
Tanis shook his head. Raistlin was right-the thought was beyond him. He could
not grasp it, but hope sprang into his heart.
"Can the orb do this for all of us?" he demanded,
"Possibly," Raistlin answered, coughing, "but I am not certain. I will not
chance it. I know I can escape. The others are not my concern. You led them
into this blood-red death, Half-Elf. You get them out!"
Anger surged through Tanis, replacing his fear. "At least, your brother-" he
began hotly.
"No one," Raistlin said, his eyes narrowing. "Stand back."
Insane, desperate rage twisted Tanis's mind. Somehow he'd make Raistlin listen
to reason! Somehow they would all use this strange magic to escape! Tanis knew
enough about magic to realize that Raistlin dared not cast a spell now. He
would need all his strength to control the dragon orb. Tanis started forward,
then saw silver flash in the mage's hand. From nowhere-seemingly-had come a
small silver dagger, long concealed on the mage's wrist by a
cunningly-designed leather thong. Tanis stopped, his eyes meeting Raistlin's.
"All right," Tanis said, breathing heavily. "You'd kill me without a second
thought. But you won't harm your brother. Caramon, stop him!"
Caramon took a step toward his twin. Raistlin raised the silver dagger
warningly.
"Don't do it, my brother," he said softly. "Come no closer."
Caramon hesitated.
"Go ahead, Caramon!" Tanis said firmly. "He won't hurt you."
'Tell him, Caramon," Raistlin whispered. The mage's eyes never left his
brother's. Their hourglass pupils dilated, the golden light flickered
dangerously. "Tell Tanis what I am capable of doing. You remember. So do I. It
is in our thoughts every time we look at one another, isn't it, my dear
brother?"
"What's he talking about?" Tanis demanded, only half listening. If he could
distract Raistlin... jump him...
Caramon blanched. "The Towers of High Sorcery..." He faltered. "But we are
forbidden to speak of it! Par-Salian said-"
"That doesn't matter now," Raistlin interrupted in his shattered voice. "There
is nothing Par-Salian can do to me. Once I have what has been promised me, not
even the great Par-Salian will have the power to face me! But that's none of
your concern. This is."
Raistlin drew a deep breath, then began to speak, his strange eyes still on
his twin. Only half-listening, Tanis crept closer, his heart pounding in his
throat. One swift movement and the frail mage would crumble.... Then Tanis
found himself caught and held by Raistlin's voice, compelled to stop for a
moment and listen, almost as if Raistlin was weaving a spell around him.
'The last test in the Tower of High Sorcery, Tanis, was against myself. And I
failed. I killed him, Tanis. I killed my brother"-Raistlin's voice was
calm-"or at least I thought it was Caramon." The mage shrugged. "As it turned
out, it was an illusion created to teach me to learn the depths of my hatred
and jealousy. Thus they thought to purge my soul of darkness. What I truly
learned was that I lacked self-control. Still, since it was not part of the
true Test, my failure did not count against me-except with one person."
"I watched him kill me!" Caramon cried wretchedly. 'They made me watch so that
I would understand him!" The big man's head dropped in his hands, his body
convulsed with a shudder. "I do understand!" he sobbed. "I understood then!
I'm sorry! Just don't go without me, Raist! You're so weak! You need me-"
"No longer, Caramon," Raistlin whispered with a soft sigh. "I need you no
longer!"
Tanis stared at them both, sick with horror. He couldn't believe this! Not
even of Raistlin! "Caramon, go ahead!" he commanded hoarsely.
"Don't make him come near me, Tanis," Raistlin said, his voice gentle, as if
he read the half-elf's thoughts. "I assure you-I am capable of this. What I
have sought all my life is within my grasp. I will let nothing stop me. Look
at Caramon's face, Tanis. He knows! I killed him once. I can do it again.
Farewell, my brother."
The mage put both hands upon the dragon orb and held it up to the light of the
flaming candle. The colors swirled madly in the orb, flaring brilliantly. A
powerful magical aura surrounded the mage.
Fighting his fear, Tanis tensed his body to make a last desperate attempt to
stop Raistlin. But he could not move. He heard Raistlin chanting strange
words. The glaring, whirling light grew so bright it pierced his head. He
covered his eyes with his hands, but the light burned right through his flesh,
searing his brain. The pain was intolerable. He stumbled back against the
doorframe, hearing Caramon cry out in agony beside him. He heard the big man's
body fall to the floor with a thud.
Then all was still, the cabin plunged into darkness. Trembling, Tanis opened
his eyes. For a moment he could see nothing but the afterimage of a giant red
globe imprinted on his brain. Then his eyes became accustomed to the chill
dark. The candle guttered, hot wax dripping onto the wooden floor of the cabin
to form a white puddle near where Caramon lay, cold and unmoving. The
warrior's eyes were wide open, staring blankly into nothingness.
Raistlin was gone.

Tika Waylan stood on the deck of the Perechon staring into the blood-red sea
and trying very hard to keep from crying. You must be brave, she told herself
over and over. You've learned to fight bravely in battle. Caramon said so. Now
you must be brave about this. We'll be together, at least, at the end. He
mustn't see me cry.
But the last four days had been unnerving for all of them. Fearful of
discovery by the draconians swarming over Flotsam, the companions had remained
hidden in the filthy inn. Tanis's strange disappearance had been terrifying.
They were helpless, they dared do nothing, not even inquire about him. So for
long days they had been forced to stay in their rooms and Tika had been forced
to be around Caramon. The tension of their strong attraction to each other-an
attraction they were not able to express-was torture. She wanted to put her
arms around Caramon, to feel his arms around her, his strong, muscular body
pressed against hers.
Caramon wanted the same thing, she was certain. He looked at her, sometimes,
with so much tenderness in his eyes that she longed to nestle close to him and
share the love that she knew was in the big man's heart.
It could never be, not as long as Raistlin hovered near his twin brother,
clinging to Caramon like a frail shadow. Over and over she repeated Caramon's
words, spoken to her before they reached Flotsam.
"My commitment is to my brother. They told me, in the Tower of High Sorcery,
that his strength would help save the world. I am his strength-his physical
strength. He needs me. My first duty is to him and, until that changes, I
can't make any other commitments. You deserve someone who puts you first,
Tika. And so I'll leave you free to find someone like that."
But I don't want anyone else, Tika thought sadly. And then the tears did start
to fall. Turning quickly, she tried to hide them from Goldmoon and Riverwind.
They would misunderstand, think she was crying from fear. No, fear of dying
was something she had conquered long ago. Her biggest fear was fear of dying
alone.
What are they doing? she wondered frantically, wiping her eyes with the back
of her hand. The ship was being carried closer and closer into that dreadful
dark eye. Where was Caramon? I'll go find them, she decided. Tanis or no
Tanis.
Then she saw Tanis come slowly up out of the hatchway, half-dragging,
half-supporting Caramon. One look at the big warrior's pale face and Tika's
heart stopped beating.
She tried to call out, but she couldn't speak. At her inarticulate scream,
however, Goldmoon and Riverwind both turned around from where they had been
watching the awesome maelstrom. Seeing Tanis stagger beneath his burden,
Riverwind ran forward to help. Caramon walked like a man in drunken stupor,
his eyes glazed and sightless. Riverwind caught hold of Caramon just as
Tanis's legs gave way completely.
"I'm all right," Tanis said softly in answer to Riverwind's look of concern.
"Goldmoon, Caramon needs your help."
"What is it, Tanis?" Tika's fear gave her a voice. "What's the matter? Where's
Raistlin? Is he-" She stopped. The half-elf's eyes were dark with the memory
of what he had seen and heard below.
"Raistlin's gone," Tanis said briefly.
"Gone? Where?" Tika asked, staring wildly around as if expecting to see his
body in the swirling blood-colored water.
"He lied to us," Tanis answered, helping Riverwind ease Caramon down onto a
mass of coiled rope. The big warrior said nothing. He didn't seem to see them,
or anything for that matter; he just stared sightlessly out over the blood-red
sea. "Remember how he kept insisting we had to go to Palanthas, to learn how
to use the dragon orb? He knows how to use the orb already. And now he's
gone-to Palanthas, perhaps. I don't suppose it matters." Looking at Caramon,
he shook his head in sorrow, then turned away abruptly and walked to the rail.
Goldmoon laid her gentle hands upon the big man, murmuring his name so softly
the others could not hear it above the rush of the wind. At her touch,
however, Caramon shivered, then began to shake violently. Tika knelt beside
him, holding his hand in hers. Still staring straight ahead, Caramon began to
cry silently, tears spilling down his cheeks from wide open, staring eyes.
Goldmoon's eyes glimmered with her own tears, but she stroked his forehead and
kept calling to him as a mother calls a lost child.
Riverwind, his face stern and dark with anger, joined Tanis.
"What happened?" the Plainsman asked grimly.
"Raistlin said he- I can't talk about it. Not now!" Tanis shook his head,
shuddering. Leaning over the rail, he stared into the murky water below.
Swearing softly in elven-a language the half-elf rarely used-he clutched his
head with his hands.
Saddened by his friend's anguish, Riverwind laid his hand comfortingly on the
half-elf's slumped shoulders.
"So at the end it comes to this," the Plainsman said. "As we foresaw in the
dream, the mage has gone, leaving his brother to die."
"And as we saw in the dream, I have failed you," Tanis mumbled, his voice low
and trembling. "What have I done? This is my fault! I have brought this horror
upon us!"
"My friend," Riverwind said, moved by the sight of Tanis's suffering. "It is
not ours to question the ways of the gods-"
"Damn the gods!" Tanis cried viciously. Lifting his head to stare at his
friend, he struck his clenched fist on the ship's rail. "It was me! My
choosing! How often during those nights when she and I were together and I
held her in my arms, how often did I tell myself it would be so easy to stay
there, with her, forever! I can't condemn Raistlin! We're very much alike, he
and I. Both destroyed by an all-consuming passion!"
"You haven't been destroyed, Tanis," Riverwind said. Gripping the half-elf's
shoulders in his strong hands, the stern-faced Plainsman forced Tanis to face
him. "You did not fall victim to your passion, as did the mage. If you had,
you would have stayed with Kitiara. You left her, Tanis-"
"I left her," Tanis said bitterly. "I sneaked out like a thief! I should have
confronted her. I should have told her the truth about myself! She would have
killed me then, but you would have been safe. You and the others could have
escaped. How much easier my death would have been- But I didn't have the
courage. Now I've brought us to this," the half-elf said, wrenching himself
free of Riverwind's grip. "I have failed-not only myself, but all of you."
He glanced around the deck. Berem still stood at the helm, gripping the
useless wheel in his hands, that strange look of resignation on his face.
Maquesta still fought to save her ship, shrieking commands above the wind's
howl and the deep-throated roaring that issued from the depths of the
maelstrom. But her crew, stunned by terror, no longer obeyed. Some wept. Some
cursed. Most made no sound, but stared in horrid fascination at the gigantic
swirl that was pulling them inexorably into the vast darkness of the deep.
Tanis felt Riverwind's hand once again touch his shoulder. Almost angrily, he
tried to withdraw, but the Plainsman was firm.
"Tanis, my brother, you made your choice to walk this road in the Inn of the
Last Home in Solace, when you came to Gold-moon's aid. In my pride, I would
have refused your help, and both she and I would have died. Because you could
not turn from us in our need, we brought the knowledge of the ancient gods
into the world. We brought healing. We brought hope. Remember what the
Forestmaster told us? We do not grieve for those who fulfill their purpose in
life. We have fulfilled our purpose, my friend. Who knows how many lives we
have touched? Who knows but that this hope will lead to a great victory? For
us, it seems, the battle has ended. So be it. We lay down our swords, only
that others may pick them up and fight on."
"Your words are pretty, Plainsman," Tanis snapped, "but tell me truthfully.
Can you look on death and not feel bitterness? You have everything to live
for-Goldmoon, the children not yet born to you-"
A swift spasm of pain crossed Riverwind's face. He turned his head to hide it,
but Tanis, watching him closely, saw the pain and suddenly understood. So he
was destroying that, too! The half-elf shut his eyes in despair.
"Goldmoon and I weren't going to tell you. You had enough to worry about."
Riverwind sighed. "Our baby would have been born in the autumn," he murmured,
"in the time when the leaves on the vallenwoods turn red and golden as they
were when Goldmoon and I came into Solace that day, carrying the blue crystal
staff. That day the knight, Sturm Brightblade, found us and brought us to the
Inn of the Last Home-"
Tanis began to sob, deep racking sobs that tore through his body like knives.
Riverwind put his arms around his friend and held him tightly.
"The vallenwoods we know are dead now, Tanis," he continued in a hushed voice.
"We could have shown the child only burned and rotted stumps. But now the
child will see the vallenwoods as the gods meant them to be, in a land where
the trees live forever. Do not grieve, my friend, my brother. You helped bring
knowledge of the gods back to the people. You must have faith in those gods."
Gently Tanis pushed Riverwind away. He could not meet the Plainsman's eyes.
Looking into his own soul, Tanis saw it twist and writhe like the tortured
trees of Silvanesti. Faith? He had no faith. What were the gods to him? He had
made the decisions. He had thrown away everything he ever had of value in his
life-his elven homeland, Laurana's love. He had come close to throwing away
friendship, too. Only Riverwind's strong loyalty-a loyalty that was badly
misplaced-kept the Plainsman from denouncing him.
Suicide is forbidden to the elves. They consider it blasphemy, the gift of
life being the most precious of all gifts. But Tanis stared into the blood-red
sea with anticipation and longing.
Let death come swiftly, he prayed. Let these bloodstained waters close over my
head. Let me hide in their depths. And if there are gods, if you are listening
to me, I ask only one thing: keep the knowledge of my shame from Laurana. I
have brought pain to too many...
But even as his soul breathed this prayer he hoped would be his last upon
Krynn, a shadow darker than the storm clouds fell across him. Tanis heard
Riverwind cry out and Goldmoon scream, but their voices were lost in the roar
of the water as the ship began to sink into the heart of the maelstrom. Dully,
Tanis looked up to see the fiery red eyes of a blue dragon shining through the
black swirling clouds. Upon the dragon's back was Kitiara.
Unwilling to give up the prize that would win them glorious victory. Kit and
Skie had fought their way through the storm, and now the dragon-wicked talons
extended-dove straight for Berem. The man's feet might have been nailed to the
deck. In dream-like helplessness he stared at the diving dragon.
Jolted to action, Tanis flung himself across the heaving deck as the blood-red
water swirled around him. He hit Berem full in the stomach, knocking the man
backward just as a wave broke over them. Tanis grabbed hold of something; he
wasn't sure what, and clung to the deck as it canted away beneath him. Then
the ship righted itself. When he looked up, Berem was gone. Above him, he
heard the dragon shriek in anger.
And then Kitiara was shouting above the storm, pointing at Tanis. Skie's fiery
gaze turned on him. Raising his arm as if he could ward off the dragon, Tanis
looked up into the enraged eyes of the beast that was fighting madly to
control his flight in the whipping winds.
This is life, the half-elf found himself thinking, seeing the dragon's claws
above him. This is life! To live, to be carried out of this horror! For an
instant Tanis felt himself suspended in mid-air as the bottom dropped out of
his world. He was conscious only of shaking his head wildly, screaming
incoherently. The dragon and the water hit him at the same time. All he could
see was blood...

Tika crouched beside Caramon, her fear of death lost in her concern for him.
But Caramon wasn't even aware of her presence. He stared out into the
darkness, tears coursing down his face, his hands clenched into fists,
repeating two words over and over in a silent litany.
In agonizing dreamlike slowness, the ship balanced on the edge of the swirling
water, as if the very wood of the vessel itself hesitated in fear. Maquesta
joined her frail ship in its final desperate struggle for life, lending her
own inner strength, trying to change the laws of nature by force of will
alone. But it was useless. With a final, heartbreaking shudder, the Perechon
slipped over the edge into the swirling, roaring darkness.
Timber cracked. Masts fell. Men were flung, screaming, from the listing decks
as the blood-red blackness sucked the Perechon down into its gaping maw.
After all was gone, two words lingered like a benediction.
"My brother..."

5
The Chronicler and the Mage

Astinus of Palanthas sat in his study. His hand guided the quill pen he held
in firm, even strokes. The bold, crisp writing flowing from that pen could be
read clearly, even at a distance. Astinus filled a sheet of parchment quickly,
rarely pausing to think. Watching him, one had the impression that his
thoughts flowed from his head straight into the pen and out onto the paper, so
rapidly did he write. The flow was interrupted only when he dipped the quill
in ink, but this, too, had become such an automatic motion to Astinus that it
interrupted him as little as the dotting of an "i" or the crossing of a "t."
The door to his study creaked opened. Astinus did not look up from his
writing, though the door did not often open while he was engaged in his work.
The historian could count the number of times on his fingers. One of those
times had been during the Cataclysm. That had disturbed his writing, he
recalled, remembering with disgust the spilled ink that had ruined a page.
The door opened and a shadow fell across his desk. But there came no sound,
though the body belonging to the shadow drew in a breath as though about to
speak. The shadow wavered, the sheer enormity of its offense causing the body
to tremble.
It is Bertrem, Astinus noted, as he noted everything, filing the information
for future reference in one of the many compartments of his mind.
This day, as above Afterwatch Hour falling 29, Bertrem entered my study.
The pen continued its steady advance over the paper. Reaching the end of a
page, Astinus lifted it smoothly and placed it on top of similar pieces of
parchment stacked neatly at the end of his desk. Later that night, when the
historian had finished his work and retired, the Aesthetics would enter the
study reverently, as clerics enter a shrine, and gather up the stacks of
paper. Carefully they would take them into the great library. Here the pieces
of parchment covered with the bold, firm handwriting, were sorted,
categorized, and filed in the giant books labeled Chronicles, A History of
Krynn by Astinus of Palanthas.
"Master . . ." spoke Bertrem in a shivering voice.
This day, as above Afterwatch Hour falling 30, Bertrem spoke, Astinus noted in
the text.
"I regret disturbing you, Master," said Bertrem faintly, "but a young man is
dying on your doorstep."
This day, as above Restful Hour climbing 29, a young man died on our doorstep.
"Get his name," Astinus said without looking up or pausing in his writing, "so
that I may record it. Be certain as to the spelling. And find out where he's
from and his age, if he's not too far gone."
"I have his name. Master," Bertrem replied. "It is Raistlin. He comes from
Solace township in the land of Abanasinia."
This day, as above Restful Hour climbing 28, Raistlin of Solace died-
Astinus stopped writing. He looked up.
"Raistlin ... of Solace?"
"Yes, Master," Bertrem replied, bowing at this great honor. It was the first
time Astinus had ever looked directly at him, though Bertrem had been with the
Order of Aesthetics who lived in the great library for over a decade. "Do you
know him, Master? That was why I took the liberty of disturbing your work. He
has asked to see you."
"Raistlin. . . ."
A drop of ink fell from Astinus's pen onto the paper.
"Where is he?"
"On the steps, Master, where we found him. We thought, perhaps, one of these
new healers we have heard about, the ones who worship the Goddess Mishakal,
might aid him. . . ."
The historian glared at the blot of ink in annoyance. Taking a pinch of fine,
white sand, he carefully sprinkled it over the ink to dry it so that it would
not stain other sheets that would later be set upon it. Then, lowering his
gaze, Astinus returned to his work.
"No healer can cure this young man's malady," the historian remarked in a
voice that might have come from the depths of time. "But bring him inside.
Give him a room."
"Bring him inside the library?" Bertrem repeated in profound astonishment.
"Master, no one has ever been admitted except those of our order-"
"I will see him, if I have time at the end of the day," Astinus continued as
if he had not heard the Aesthetic's words. "If he is still alive, that is."
The pen moved rapidly across the paper.
"Yes, Master," Bertrem murmured and backed out of the room.
Shutting the door to the study, the Aesthetic hurried through the cool and
silent marble halls of the ancient library, his eyes wide with the wonder of
this occurrence. His thick, heavy robes swept the floor behind him, his shaved
head glistened with sweat as he ran, unaccustomed to such strenuous exertion.
The others of his order gazed at him in astonishment as he swept into the
library's front entryway. Glancing quickly through the glass pane set in the
door, he could see the young man's body upon the stairs.

"We are commanded to bring him inside," Bertrem told the others. "Astinus will
see the young man tonight, if the mage is still alive."
One by one, the Aesthetics regarded each other in shocked silence, wondering
what doom this portended.


I am dying.
The knowledge was bitter to the mage. Lying in the bed in the cold, white cell
where the Aesthetics had placed him, Raistlin cursed his frail and fragile
body, he cursed the Tests that shattered it, he cursed the gods who had
inflicted it upon him. He cursed until he had no more words to hurl, until he
was too exhausted even to think. And then he lay beneath the white linen
sheets that were like winding cloths and felt his heart flutter inside his
breast like a trapped bird.
For the second time in his life, Raistlin was alone and frightened. He had
been alone only once before, and that had been during those three torturous
days of Testing in the Tower of High Sorcery. Even then, had he been alone? He
didn't think so, although he couldn't remember clearly. The voice ... the
voice that spoke to him sometimes, the voice he could never identify, yet
seemed to know ... He always connected the voice with the Tower. It had helped
him there, as it had helped him since. Because of that voice he had survived
the ordeal.
But he wouldn't survive this, he knew. The magical transformation he had
undergone had placed too great a strain on his frail body. He had succeeded,
but at what a cost!
The Aesthetics found him huddled in his red robes, vomiting blood upon their
stairs. He managed to gasp out the name of Astinus and his own name when they
asked. Then he lost consciousness. When he awoke, he was here, in this cold,
narrow monk's cell. And with waking came the knowledge that he was dying. He
had asked more of his body than it was capable of giving. The dragon orb might
save him, but he had no more strength to work his magic. The words to draw
upon its enchantment were gone from his mind.
I am too weak to control its tremendous power anyway, he realized. Let it once
know I have lost my strength and it would devour me.
No, there was only one chance remaining to him-the books inside the great
library. The dragon orb had promised him that these books held the secrets of
the ancient ones, great and powerful mages whose like would never be seen
again on Krynn. Perhaps there he could find the means to extend his life. He
had to talk to Astinus! He had to gain admittance to the great library, he had
shrieked at the complacent Aesthetics. But they only nodded.
"Astinus will see you," they said, "this evening, if he has time."
If he has time! Raistlin swore viciously. If I have time! He could feel the
sands of his life running through his fingers and, grasp at them as he might,
he could not stop them.
Gazing at him with pitying eyes, not knowing what to do for him, the
Aesthetics brought Raistlin food, but he could not eat. He could not even
swallow the bitter herbal medicine that eased his cough. Furious, he sent the
idiots away from him. Then he lay back on his hard pillow, watching the sun's
light creep across his cell. Exerting all his effort to cling to life,
Raistlin forced himself to relax, knowing that this feverish anger would burn
him up. His thoughts went to his brother.
Closing his eyes wearily, Raistlin imagined Caramon sitting beside him. He
could almost feel Caramon's arms around him, lifting him up so that he could
breathe more easily. He could smell his brother's familiar scent of sweat and
leather and steel. Caramon would take care of him. Caramon would not let him
die. . . .
No, Raistlin thought dreamily. Caramon is dead now. They are all dead, the
fools. I must look after myself. Suddenly he realized he was losing
consciousness again. Desperately he fought, but it was a losing battle. Making
a final, supreme effort, he thrust his shaking hand into a pocket in his robe.
His fingers closed around the dragon orb-shrunk to the size of a child's
marble-even as he sank into darkness.
He woke to the sound of voices and the knowledge that someone was in the cell
with him. Fighting through layers of blackness, Raistlin struggled to the
surface of his consciousness and opened his eyes.
It was evening. Lunitari's red light glanced through his window; a shimmering
bloodstain upon the wall. A candle burned beside his bed and, by its light, he
saw two men standing over him. One he recognized as the Aesthetic who had
discovered him. The other? He seemed familiar. . . .
"He wakes. Master," said the Aesthetic.
"So he does," remarked the man imperturbably. Bending down, he studied the
young mage's face, then smiled and nodded to himself, almost as if someone he
had long expected had finally arrived. It was a peculiar look, and it did not
go unnoticed by either Raistlin or the Aesthetic.
"I am Astinus," the man spoke. "You are Raistlin of Solace."
"I am." Raistlin's mouth formed the words, his voice was little more than a
croak. Gazing up at Astinus, Raistlin's anger returned as he remembered the
man's callous remark that he would see him if he had time. As Raistlin stared
at the man, he felt suddenly chilled. He had never seen a face so cold and
unfeeling, totally devoid of human emotion and human passion. A face untouched
by time-
Raistlin gasped. Struggling to sit up-with the Aesthetic's help-he stared at
Astinus.
Noticing Raistlin's reaction, Astinus remarked, "You look at me strangely,
young mage. What do you see with those hourglass eyes of yours?"
"I see ... a man . . . who is not dying. . . ." Raistlin could speak only
through painful struggles to draw breath.
"Of course, what did you expect?" the Aesthetic chided, gently propping the
dying man against the pillows of his bed. "The Master was here to chronicle
the birth of the first upon Krynn and so he will be here to chronicle the
death of the last. So we are taught by Gilean, God of the Book."
"Is that true?" Raistlin whispered.
Astinus shrugged slightly. "My personal history is of no consequence compared
to the history of the world. Now speak, Raistlin of Solace. What do you want
of me? Whole volumes are passing as I waste my time in idle talk with you."
"I ask... I beg... a favor!" The words were torn from Raistlin's chest and
came out stained with blood. "My life ... is measured... in hours. Let me...
spend them... in study... in the ... great library!"
Bertram's tongue clicked against the roof of his mouth in shock at this young
mage's temerity. Glancing at Astinus fearfully, the Aesthetic waited for the
scathing refusal that, he felt certain, must flail this rash young man's skin
from his bones.
Long moments of silenced passed, broken only by Raistlin's labored breathing.
The expression on Astinus's face did not change. Finally he answered coldly.
"Do what you will."
Ignoring Bertrem's shocked look, Astinus turned and began to walk toward the
door.
"Wait!" Raistlin's voice rasped. The mage reached out a trembling hand as
Astinus slowly came to a halt. "You asked me what I saw when I looked at you.
Now I ask you the same thing. I saw that look upon your face when you bent
over me. You recognized me! You know me! Who am I? What do you see?"
Astinus looked back, his face cold, blank, and impenetrable as marble.
"You said you saw a man who was not dying," the historian told the mage
softly. Hesitating a moment, he shrugged and once again turned away. "I see a
man who is."
And, with that, he walked out the door.


It is assumed that You who hold this Book in your Hands have successfully
passed the Tests in one of the Towers of High Sorcery, and that You have
demonstrated Your Ability to exert Control over a Dragon Orb or some other
approved Magical Artifact (see Appendix C) and, further, that You have
demonstrated Proven Ability in casting the Spells-
"Yes, yes," muttered Raistlin, hurriedly scanning the runes that crawled like
spiders across the page. Reading impatiently through the list of spells, he
finally reached the conclusion.
Having completed these Requirements to the Satisfaction of Your Masters, We
give into Your Hands this Spellbook. Thus, with the Key, You unlock Our
Mysteries.

With a shriek of inarticulate rage, Raistlin shoved the spellbook with its
night-blue binding and silver runes aside. His hand shaking, he reached for
the next night-blue bound book in the huge pile he had amassed at his side. A
fit of coughing forced him to stop. Fighting for breath, he feared for a
moment that he could not go on.
The pain was unbearable. Sometimes he longed to sink into oblivion, end this
torture he must live with daily. Weak and dizzy, he let his head sink to the
desk, cradled in his arms. Rest, sweet, painless rest. An image of his brother
came to his mind. There was Caramon in the afterlife, waiting for his little
brother. Raistlin could see his twin's sad, doglike eyes, he could feel his
pity...
Raistlin drew a breath with a gasp, then forced himself to sit up. Meeting
Caramon! I'm getting lightheaded, he sneered at himself. What nonsense!
Moistening his blood-caked lips with water, Raistlin took hold of the next
night-blue spellbook and pulled it over to him. Its silver runes flashed in
the candlelight, its cover-icy cold to the touch-was the same as the covers of
all the other spellbooks stacked around him. Its cover was the same as the
spellbook in his possession already-the spellbook he knew by heart and by
soul, the spellbook of the greatest mage who ever lived-Fistandantilus.
With trembling hands, Raistlin opened the cover. His feverish eyes devoured
the page, reading the same requirements-only mages high in the Order had the
skill and control necessary to study the spells recorded inside. Those without
it who tried to read the spells saw nothing on the pages but gibberish.
Raistlin fulfilled all the requirements. He was probably the only White or
Red-Robed mage on Krynn, with the possible exception of the great Par-Salian
himself, who could say that. Yet, when Raistlin looked at the writing inside
the book, it was nothing more than a meaningless scrawl.
Thus, with the Key, You unlock our mysteries-
Raistlin screamed, a thin, wailing sound cut off by a choking sob. In bitter
anger and frustration, he flung himself upon the table, scattering the books
to the floor. Frantically his hands clawed the air and he screamed again. The
magic that he had been too weak to summon came now in his anger.
The Aesthetics, passing outside the doors of the great library, exchanged
fearful glances as they heard those terrible cries. Then they heard another
sound. A crackling sound followed by a booming explosion of thunder. They
stared at the door in alarm. One put his hand upon the handle and turned it,
but the door was locked fast. Then one pointed and they all backed up as a
ghastly light flared beneath the closed door. The smell of sulphur drifted out
of the library, only to be blown away by a great gust of wind that hit the
door with such force it seemed it might split in two. Again the Aesthetics
heard that bubbling wail of rage, and then they fled down the marble hallway,
calling wildly for Astinus.
The historian arrived to find the door to the great library held spellbound.
He was not much surprised. With a sigh of resignation, he took a small book
from the pocket of his robes and then sat down in a chair, beginning to write
in his quick, flowing script. The Aesthetics huddled together near him,
alarmed at the strange sounds emanating from within the locked room.
Thunder boomed and rolled, shaking the library's very foundation. Light flared
around the closed door so constantly it might have been day within the room
instead of the darkest hour of the night. The howling and shrieking of a
windstorm blended with the mage's shrill screams. There were thuds and thumps,
the rustling sounds of sheaves of paper swirling about in a storm. Tongues of
flame flicked from beneath the door.
"Master!" one of the Aesthetics cried in terror, pointing to the flames, "He
is destroying the books!"
Astinus shook his head and did not cease his writing.
Then, suddenly, all was silent. The light seen beneath the library door went
out as if swallowed by darkness. Hesitantly the Aesthetics approached the
door, cocking their heads to listen. Nothing could be heard from within,
except a faint rustling sound. Bertrem placed his hand upon the door. It
yielded to his gentle pressure
"The door opens, Master," he said.
Astinus stood up. "Return to your studies," he commanded the Aesthetics.
"There is nothing you can do here."
Bowing silently, the monks gave the door a final, scared glance, then walked
hurriedly down the echoing corridor, leaving Astinus alone. He waited a few
moments to make certain they were gone, then the historian slowly opened the
door to the great library.
Silver and red moonlight streamed through the small windows. The orderly rows
of shelves that held thousands of bound books stretched into the darkness.
Recessed holes containing thousands of scrolls lined the walls. The moonlight
shone upon a table, buried under a pile of paper. A guttered candle stood in
the center of the table, a night-blue spellbook lay open beside it, the
moonlight shining on its bone-white pages. Other spellbooks lay scattered on
the floor.
Looking around, Astinus frowned. Black streaks marked the walls. The smell of
sulphur and of fire was strong inside the room. Sheets of paper swirled in the
still air, falling like leaves after an autumn storm upon a body lying on the
floor.
Entering the room, Astinus carefully shut and locked the door behind him. Then
he approached the body, wading through the mass of parchment scattered on the
floor. He said nothing, nor did he bend down to help the young mage. Standing
beside Raistlin, he regarded him thoughtfully.
But, as he drew near, Astinus's robes brushed the metallic-colored,
outstretched hand. At that touch, the mage lifted his head. Raistlin stared at
Astinus with eyes already darkening with the shadows of death.
"You did not find what you sought?" Astinus asked, staring down at the young
man with cold eyes.
"The Key!" Raistlin gasped through white lips flecked with blood. "Lost ... in
time... Fools!" His clawlike hand clenched, anger the only fire that burned in
him. "So simple! Everyone knew it... no one recorded it! The Key... all I need
. . . lost!"
"So this ends your journey, my old friend," Astinus said without compassion.
Raistlin raised his head, his golden eyes glittering feverishly. "You do know
me! Who am I?!" he demanded.
"It is no longer important," Astinus said. Turning, he started to walk out of
the library.
There was a piercing shriek behind him, a hand grasped his robe, dragging him
to a halt.
"Don't turn your back on me as you have turned it on the world!" Raistlin
snarled.
"Turn my back on the world..." the historian repeated softly and slowly, his
head moving to face the mage. "Turn my back on the world!" Emotion rarely
marred the surface of Astinus's cold voice, but now anger struck the placid
calm of his soul like a rock hurled into still water.
"I? Turn my back on the world?" Astinus's voice rolled around the library as
the thunder had rolled previously. "I am the world, as you well know, old
friend! Countless times I have been born! Countless deaths I have died! Every
tear shed- mine have flowed! Every drop of blood spilled-mine has drained!
Every agony, every joy ever felt has been mine to share!
"I sit with my hand on the Sphere of Time, the sphere you made for me, old
friend, and I travel the length and breadth of this world chronicling its
history. I have committed the blackest deeds! I have made the noblest
sacrifices. I am human, elf, and ogre. I am male and female. I have borne
children. I have murdered children. I saw you as you were. I see you as you
are. If I seem cold and unfeeling, it is because that is how I survive without
losing my sanity! My passion goes into my words.

Those who read my books know what it is to have lived in any time, in any body
that ever walked this world!"
Raistlin's hand loosed its grip on the historian's robes and he fell weakly to
the floor. His strength was fading fast. But the mage clung to Astinus's
words, even as he felt the coldness of death clutch his heart. I must live,
just a moment longer. Lunitari, give me just a moment more, he prayed, calling
upon the spirit of the moon from which Red-Robed mages draw their magic. Some
word was coming, he knew. Some word that would save him. If only he could hold
on!
Astinus's eyes flared as he gazed upon the dying man. The words he hurled at
him had been pent up inside the chronicler for countless centuries.
"On the last, perfect day," Astinus said, his voice shaking, "the three gods
will come together: Paladine in his Radiance, Queen Takhisis in her Darkness,
and lastly Gilean, Lord of Neutrality. In their hands, each bears the Key of
Knowledge. They will place these Keys upon the great Altar, and upon the Altar
will also be placed my books-the story of every being who has lived upon Krynn
throughout time! And then, at last, the world will be complete-"
Astinus stopped, appalled, realizing what he had said, what he had done.
But Raistlin's eyes no longer saw him. The hourglass pupils were dilated, the
golden color surrounding them gleamed like flame.
"The Key . . ." Raistlin whispered in exultation. "The Key! I know. ... I
know..."
So weak he could scarcely move, Raistlin reached into the small, nondescript
pouch that hung from his belt and brought forth the marble-sized dragon orb.
Holding it in his trembling hand, the mage stared into it with eyes that were
fast growing dim.
"I know who you are," Raistlin murmured with his dying breath. "I know you now
and I beseech you-come to my aid as you came to my aid in the Tower and in
Silvanesti! Our bargain is struck! Save me, and you save yourself!"
The mage collapsed. His head with its sparse white wispy hair lolled back onto
the floor, his eyes with their cursed vision closed. The hand that held the
orb went limp, but its fingers did not relax. It held the orb fast in a grip
stronger than death.
Little more than a heap of bones garbed in blood-red robes, Raistlin lay
unmoving amid the papers that littered the spell-blasted library.
Astinus stared at the body for long moments, bathed in the garish purplish
light of the two moons. Then, his head bowed, the historian left the silent
library, closing and locking the door behind him with hands that shook.
Returning to his study, the historian sat for hours, gazing unseeing into the
darkness.


"I tell you, it was Raistlin!"
"And I tell you, one more of your furry-elephant, teleporting-ring,
plants-living-off-air stories and I'll twist that hoopak around your neck!"
Flint snapped angrily.
"It was too Raistlin," Tasslehoff retorted, but he said it under his breath as
the two walked along the wide, gleaming streets of the beautiful city of
Palanthas. The kender knew by long association just how far he could push the
dwarf and Flint's threshold for irritation was very low these days. "And don't
go bothering Laurana with your wild tales, either," Flint ordered, correctly
guessing Tas's intentions. "She has enough problems."
"But-"
The dwarf stopped and gazed grimly at the kender from beneath bushy white
eyebrows.
"Promise?"
Tas sighed. "Oh, all right."
It wouldn't have been so bad if he didn't feel quite certain he had seen
Raistlin! He and Flint were walking past the steps of the great library of
Palanthas when the kender's sharp eyes caught sight of a group of monks
clustered around something lying on the steps. When Flint stopped for a moment
to admire some particularly fine piece of dwarven-crafted stonework in a
building opposite, Tas took advantage of the opportunity to creep silently up
the stairs to see what was going on.
To his amazement, he saw a man that looked just like Raistlin-golden-colored
metallic skin, red robes, and all- being lifted up off the stairs and carried
inside the library. But by the time the excited kender ran across the street,
grabbed Flint, and hauled the grumbling dwarf back again, the group was gone.
Tasslehoff even ran up to the door, banging on it and demanding entrance. But
the Aesthetic who answered appeared so horrified at the thought of a kender
coming into the great library that the scandalized dwarf hustled Tas off
before the monk could open his mouth.
Promises being very nebulous things to kenders, Tas considered telling Laurana
anyway, but then he thought of the elf-maid's face as it had appeared lately,
wan and drawn from grief, worry, and lack of sleep, and the soft-hearted
kender decided maybe Flint was right. If it was Raistlin, he was probably here
on some secret business of his own and wouldn't thank them for dropping in on
him uninvited. Still-
Heaving a sigh, the kender walked on, kicking stones with his feet and looking
around the city once more. Palanthas was well worth the look. The city had
been fabled even during the Age of Might for its beauty and grace. There was
no other city on Krynn that could compare to it-at least to human thought.
Built on a circular pattern like a wheel, the center was, literally, the hub
of the city. All the major official buildings were located here, and the great
sweeping staircases and graceful columns were breathtaking in their grandeur.
From this central circle, wide avenues led off in the directions of the eight
major compass points. Paved with fitted stone (dwarven work, of course) and
lined with trees whose leaves were like golden lace year-round, these avenues
led to the seaport on the north and to the seven gates of the Old City Wall.
Even these gates were masterpieces of architecture, each one guarded by twin
minarets whose graceful towers rose over three hundred feet into the air. The
Old Wall itself was carved with intricate designs, telling the story of
Palanthas during the Age of Dreams. Beyond Old City Wall lay New City.
Carefully planned to conform to the original design, New City extended from
Old City Wall in the same circular pattern with the same wide, tree-lined
avenues. There were, however, no walls around New City. The Palanthians didn't
particularly like walls, (walls ruined the over-all design) and nothing in
either Old or New City was ever built these days without first consulting the
overall design, both within and without. Palanthas's silhouette upon the
horizon in the evening was as lovely to the eye as the city itself-with one
exception.
Tas's thoughts were rudely interrupted by a poke in the back from Flint.
"What is the matter with you?" the kender demanded, facing the dwarf.
"Where are we?" Flint asked surlily, hands on his hips.
"Well, we're . . ." Tas looked around. "Uh . . .that is, I think we're . . .
then again, perhaps we're not." He fixed Flint with a cold stare. "How did you
get us lost?"
"ME!" The dwarf exploded. "You're the guide! You're the map-reader. You're the
kender who knows this city like he knows his own house!"
"But I was thinking," Tas said loftily.
"What with?" Flint roared.
"I was thinking deep thoughts," Tas said in wounded tones.
"I-oh, never mind," Flint grumbled and began to peer up and down the street.
He didn't quite like the looks of things.
"This certainly does seem strange," Tas said cheerfully, echoing the dwarf's
thoughts. "It's so empty-not at all like the other streets of Palanthas." He
stared longingly down the rows of silent empty buildings. "I wonder-"
"No," said Flint. "Absolutely not. We're going back the way we came-"
"Oh, come on!" Tas said, heading down the deserted street.

"Just a little ways, to see what's down here. You know Laurana told us to look
around, inspect the forti-forta-the whatch-ma-call-its."
"Fortifications," muttered Flint, stumping reluctantly along after the kender.
"And there aren't any around here, you doorknob. This is the center of the
city! She meant the walls around the outside of the city."
"There aren't any walls around the outside of the city," Tas said
triumphantly. "Not around New City, anyway. And if it's the center, why is it
deserted? I think we should find out."
Flint snorted. The kender was beginning to make sense-a fact which caused the
dwarf to shake his head and wonder if maybe he shouldn't lie down somewhere
out of the sun.
The two walked for several minutes in silence, traveling deeper and deeper
into the heart of the city. To one side, only a few blocks away, rose the
palatial mansion of the Lord of Palanthas. They could see its towering spires
from here. But ahead of them, nothing was visible. It was all lost in
shadow....
Tas glanced into windows and stuck his nose into doorways of the buildings
they passed. He and Flint proceeded clear to the end of the block before the
kender spoke.
"You know, Flint," Tas said uneasily, "these buildings are all empty."
"Abandoned," said Flint in hushed tones. The dwarf laid his hand on his
battle-axe, he started nervously at the sound of Tas's shrill voice.
"There's a queer feeling about this place," Tas said, edging closer to the
dwarf. "I'm not afraid, mind you-"
"I am," said Flint emphatically. "Let's get out of here!"
Tas looked up at the tall buildings on either side of them. They were well
kept. Apparently the Palanthians were so proud of their city that they even
spent money keeping up vacant buildings. There were shops and dwellings of all
kinds, obviously structurally sound. The streets were clean and free from
litter and garbage. But it was all deserted. This had once been a prosperous
area, the kender thought. Right in the heart of the city. Why wasn't it now?
Why had everyone left? It gave him an "eerie" feeling and there were not many
things in Krynn that gave kender "eerie" feelings.
'There aren't even any rats!" Flint muttered. Taking hold of Tas's arm, he
tugged at the kender. "We've seen enough."
"Oh, come on," Tas said. Pulling his arm away, he fought down the strange
eerie sensation and-straightening his small shoulders-started off down the
sidewalk once more. He hadn't gone three feet when he realized he was alone.
Stopping in exasperation, he looked back. The dwarf was standing on the
sidewalk, glowering at him.
"I only want to go as far as that grove of trees at the end of the street,"
Tas said, pointing. "Look-it's just an ordinary grove of ordinary oak trees.
Probably a park or something. Maybe we could have lunch-"
"I don't like this place!" Flint said stubbornly. "It reminds me of ... of ...
Darken Wood-that place where Raistlin spoke to the spooks."
"Oh, you're the only spook here!" Tas said irritably, determined to ignore the
fact that it reminded him of the same thing. "It's broad daylight. We're in
the center of a city, for the love of Reorx-"
"Then why is it freezing cold?"
"It's winter!" the kender shouted, waving his arms. He hushed immediately,
staring around in alarm at the weird way his words echoed through the silent
streets. "Are you coming?" he asked in a loud whisper.
Flint drew a deep breath. Scowling, he gripped his battle-axe and marched down
the street toward the kender, casting a wary eye at the buildings as though at
any moment a spectre might leap out at him.
"Tisn't winter," the dwarf muttered out of the comer of his mouth. "Except
around here."
"It won't be spring for weeks," Tas returned, glad to have something to argue
about and keep his mind off the strange things his stomach was doing-twisting
into knots and the like.
But Flint refused to quarrel-a bad sign. Silently, the two crept down the
empty street until they reached the end of the block. Here the buildings ended
abruptly in a grove of trees. As Tas had said, it seemed just an ordinary
grove of oak trees- although they were certainly the tallest oaks either the
dwarf or the kender had seen in long years of exploring Krynn.
But as the two approached, they felt the strange chilling sensation become
stronger until it was worse than any cold they had ever experienced, even the
cold of the glacier in Ice Wall. It was worse because it came from within and
it made no sense! Why should it be so cold in just this part of the city? The
sun was shining. There wasn't a cloud in the sky. But soon their fingers were
numb and stiff. Flint could no longer hold his battle-axe and was forced to
put it back in its holder with shaking hands. Tas's teeth chattered, he had
lost all feeling in his pointed ears, and he shivered violently.
"L-let's g-get out-t of h-here . . ." stammered the dwarf through blue lips.
"W-we're j-just s-standing in a sh-shadow of a building." Tas nearly bit his
tongue. "W-when we g-get in the s-s-sunshine, it'll war-warm up."
"No f-fire on K-K-Krynn will w-warm t-this!" Flint snapped visciously,
stomping on the ground to get the circulation started in his feet.
"J-just a f-few m-more f-feet. . . ." Tas kept going along gamely, even though
his knees knocked together. But he went alone. Turning around, he saw that
Flint seemed paralyzed, unable to move. His head was bowed, his beard
quivered.
I should go back, Tas thought, but he couldn't. The curiosity that did more
than anything in the world to reduce the kender population kept drawing him
forward.
Tas came to the edge of the grove of oak trees and-here- his heart almost
failed him. Kender are normally immune to the sensation of fear, so only a
kender could have come even this far. But now Tas found himself a prey to the
most unreasoning terror he had ever experienced. And whatever was causing it
was located within that grove of oak trees.
They're ordinary trees, Tas said to himself, shivering. I've talked to
spectres in Darken Wood. I've faced three or four dragons. I broke a dragon
orb. Just an ordinary grove of trees. I was prisoner in a wizard's castle. I
saw a demon from the Abyss. Just a grove of ordinary trees.
Slowly, talking to himself, Tasslehoff inched his way through the oak trees.
He didn't go far, not even past the row of trees that formed the outer
perimeter of the grove, because now he could see into the heart of the grove.
Tasslehoff gulped, turned, and ran.
At the sight of the kender running back toward him, Flint knew it was All
Over. Something Awful was going to crash out of that grove of trees. The dwarf
whirled so rapidly he tripped over his feet and fell sprawling to the
pavement. Running up to him, Tas grabbed Flint's belt and pulled him up. Then
the two dashed madly down the street, the dwarf running for his very life. He
could almost hear gigantic footsteps thudding along behind him. He did not
dare turn around. Visions of a slobbering monster drove him on until his heart
seemed about to burst from his body. Finally they reached the end of the
street.
It was warm. The sun shone.
They could hear the voices of real live people drifting from the crowded
streets beyond. Flint stopped, exhausted, gasping for breath. Glancing
fearfully back down the street, he was surprised to see it was still empty.
"What was it?" he managed to ask when he could speak past the thudding of his
heart.
The kender's face was pale as death. "A-a t-tower . . ." Tas gulped, puffing.
Flint's eyes opened wide. "A tower?" the dwarf repeated. "I ran all that
way-nearly killing myself-and I was running from a tower! I don't suppose"-
Flint's bushy eyebrows came together alarmingly-"that the tower was chasing
you?"
"N-no," Tas admitted. "It-it just stood there. But it was the most horrible
thing I've ever seen in my life," the kender avowed solemnly, shuddering.

"That would be the Tower of High Sorcery," the Lord of Palanthas told Laurana
that evening as they sat in the map room of the beautiful palace on the hill
overlooking the city. "No wonder your little friend was terrified. I'm
surprised he got as far as the Shoikan Oak Grove."
"He's a kender," Laurana replied, smiling.
"Ah, yes. Well, that explains it. Now that's something I hadn't considered,
you know. Hiring kender to do the work around the Tower. We have to pay the
most outrageous prices to get men to go into those buildings once a year and
keep them in good repair. But then"-the Lord appeared downcast-"I don't
suppose the townspeople would be at all pleased to see a sizeable number of
kender in the city."
Amothus, Lord of Palanthas, padded across the polished marble floor of the map
room, his hands clasped behind his robes of state. Laurana walked next to him,
trying to keep from tripping over the hem of the long, flowing gown the
Palanthians had insisted she wear. They had been quite charming about the
dress, offering it as a gift. But she knew they were horrified to see a
Princess of the Qualinesti parading around in bloodstained, battle-scarred
armor. Laurana had no choice but to accept it; she could not afford to offend
the Palanthians whom she was counting on for help. But she felt naked and
fragile and defenseless without her sword at her side and the steel around her
body.
And she knew that the generals of the Palanthian army, the temporary
commanders of the Solamnic knights, and the other nobles-advisors from the
City Senate-were the ones making her feel fragile and defenseless. All of them
reminded her with every look that she was-to them-a woman playing at being a
soldier. All right, she had done well. She had fought her little war and she
had won. Now-back to the kitchen...
"What is the Tower of High Sorcery?" Laurana asked abruptly. She had learned
after a week of negotiating with the Lord of Palanthas that-although an
intelligent man-his thoughts tended to wander into unexplored regions and he
needed constant guidance to keep to the central topic.
"Oh, yes. Well, you can see it from the window here, if you really want to-"
The Lord seemed reluctant.
"I would like to see it," Laurana said coolly.
Shrugging, Lord Amothus veered from his course and led Laurana to a window she
had already noticed because it was covered with thick curtains. The curtains
over the other windows of the room were open, revealing a breathtaking view of
the city in whatever direction one looked.
"Yes, this is the reason I keep these shut," the Lord said with a sigh in
answer to Laurana's question. "A pity, too. This was once the most magnificent
view in the city, according to the old records. But that was before the Tower
was cursed-"
The Lord drew the curtains aside with a trembling hand, his face dark with
sorrow. Startled at such emotion, Laurana looked out curiously, then drew in a
breath. The sun was sinking behind the snow-capped mountains, streaking the
sky with red and purple. The vibrant colors shimmered in the pure white
buildings of Palanthas as the rare, translucent marble from which they were
built caught the dying light. Laurana had never imagined such beauty could
exist in the world of humans. It rivaled her beloved homeland of Qualinesti.
Then her eyes were drawn to a darkness within the shimmering pearl radiance. A
single tower rose up to the sky. It was tall; even though the palace was
perched on a hill, the top of the Tower was only slightly below her line of
sight. Made of black marble, it stood out in distinct contrast to the white
marble of the city around it. Minarets must have once graced its gleaming
surface, she saw, though these were now crumbling and broken. Dark windows,
like empty eyesockets, stared sightlessly into the world. A fence surrounded
it. The fence, too, was black and, on the gate of the fence, Laurana saw
something fluttering. For a moment she thought it was a huge bird, trapped
there, for it seemed alive. But just as she was about to call the Lord's
attention to it, he shut the curtains with a shiver.
"I'm sorry," he apologized. "I can't stand it. Shocking. And to think we've
lived with that for centuries..."
"I don't think it's so terrible," Laurana said earnestly, her mind's eye
remembering the view of the Tower and the city around it. "The Tower . . .
seems right somehow. Your city is very beautiful, but sometimes it's such a
cold, perfect beauty that I don't notice it anymore." Looking out the other
windows, Laurana was once more as enchanted with the view as she had been when
she first entered Palanthas. "But after seeing that- that flaw in your city,
it makes the beauty stand out in my mind ... if you understand. . . ."
It was obvious from the bemused expression on the Lord's face that he did not
understand. Laurana sighed, though she caught herself glancing at the drawn
curtains with a strange fascination. "How did the Tower come to be cursed?"
she asked instead.
"It was during the-oh, I say, here's someone who can tell the story far better
than I," Lord Amothus said, looking up in relief as the door opened. "It isn't
a story I enjoy relating, to be perfectly honest."
"Astinus of the Library of Palanthas," announced the herald.
To Laurana's astonishment, every man in the room rose respectfully to his
feet-even the great generals and noblemen. All this, she thought, for a
librarian? Then, to her even greater astonishment, the Lord of Palanthas and
all his generals and all the nobles bowed as the historian entered. Laurana
bowed, too, out of confused courtesy. As a member of the royal house of
Qualinesti, she was not supposed to bow before anyone on Krynn unless it be
her own father, Speaker of the Suns. But when she straightened and studied
this man, she felt suddenly that bowing to him had been most fitting and
proper.
Astinus entered with an ease and assurance that led her to believe he would
stand unabashed in the presence of all the royalty on Krynn and the heavens as
well. He seemed middle-aged, but there was an ageless quality about him. His
face might have been chiseled out of the marble of Palanthas itself and, at
first, Laurana was repelled by the cold, passionless quality of that face.
Then she saw that the man's dark eyes literally blazed with life-as though lit
from within by the fire of a thousand souls.
"You are late, Astinus," Lord Amothus said pleasantly, though with a marked
respect. He and his generals all remained standing until the historian had
seated himself, Laurana noticed, as did even the Knights of Solamnia. Almost
overcome with an unaccustomed awe, she sank into her seat at the huge, round
table covered with maps, which stood in the center of the great room.
"I had business to attend to," Astinus replied in a voice that might have
sounded from a bottomless well.
"I heard you were troubled by a strange occurrence." The Lord of Palanthas
flushed in embarrassment. "I really must apologize. We have no idea how the
young man came to be found in such an appalling condition upon your stairs. If
only you had let us know! We could have removed the body without fuss-"
"It was no trouble," Astinus said abruptly, glancing at Laurana. 'The matter
has been properly dealt with. All is now at an end."
"But... uh ... what about the ... uh ... remains?" Lord Amothus asked
hesitantly. "I know how painful this must be, but there are certain health
proclamations that the Senate has passed and I'd like to be sure all has been
attended to . . ."
"Perhaps I should leave," Laurana said coldly, rising to her feet, "until this
conversation has ended."
"What? Leave?" The Lord of Palanthas stared at her vaguely. "You've only just
come-"
"I believe our conversation is distressing to the elven princess," Astinus
remarked. 'The elves-as you remember, my lord-have a great reverence for life.
Death is not discussed in this callous fashion among them."
"Oh, my heavens!" Lord Amothus flushed deeply, rising and taking her hand. "I
do beg your pardon, my dear. Absolutely abominable of me- Please forgive me
and be seated again. Some wine for the princess-" Amothus hailed a servant,
who filled Laurana's glass.
"You were discussing the Towers of High Sorcery as I entered. What do you know
of the Towers?" Astinus asked, his eyes staring into Laurana's soul.
Shivering at that penetrating gaze, she gulped a sip of wine, sorry now that
she had mentioned it. "Really," she said faintly, "perhaps we should turn to
business. I'm certain the generals are anxious to return to their troops and
I-"
"What do you know of the Towers?" Astinus repeated.
"I-uh-not much," Laurana faltered, feeling as if she were back in school being
confronted by her tutor. "I had a friend- that is, an acquaintance-who took
the Tests at the Tower of High Sorcery in Wayreth, but he is-"
"Raistlin of Solace, I believe," Astinus said imperturbably.
"Why, yes!" Laurana answered, startled. "How-"
"I am a historian, young woman. It is my business to know," Astinus replied.
"I will tell you the history of the Tower of Palanthas. Do not consider it a
waste of time, Lauralanthalasa, for its history is bound up in your destiny."
Ignoring her shocked look, he gestured to one of the generals. "You, there,
open that curtain. You are shutting out the best view in the city, as I
believe the princess remarked before I entered. This, then, is the story of
the Tower of High Sorcery of Palanthas.
"My tale must begin with what became known-in hindsight-as the Lost Battles.
During the Age of Might, when the Kingpriest of Istar began jumping at
shadows, he gave his fears a name-magic-users! He feared them, he feared their
vast power. He did not understand it, and so it became a threat to him.
"It was easy to arouse the populace against the magic-users. Although widely
respected, they were never trusted- primarily because they allowed among their
ranks representatives of all three powers in the universe-the White Robes of
Good, the Red Robes of Neutrality, and the Black Robes of Evil. For they
understood-as the Kingpriest did not-that the universe swings in balance among
these three and that to disturb the balance is to invite destruction.
"And so the people rose against the magic-users. The five Towers of High
Sorcery were prime targets, naturally, for it was in these Towers that the
powers of the Order were most concentrated. And it was in these Towers that
the young mages came to take the Tests-those who dared. For the Trials are
arduous and-worse-hazardous. Indeed, failure means one thing: death!"
"Death?" repeated Laurana, incredulously. Then Raistlin-"
"Risked his life to take the Test. And he nearly paid the price. That is
neither here nor there, however. Because of this deadly penalty for failure,
dark rumors were spread about the Towers of High Sorcery. In vain the
magic-users sought to explain that these were only centers of learning and
that each young mage risking his life did so willingly, understanding the
purpose behind it. Here, too, in the Towers, the mages kept their spellbooks
and their scrolls, their implements of magic. But no one believed them.
Stories of strange rites and rituals and sacrifices spread among the people,
fostered by the Kingpriest and his clerics for their own ends.
"And the day came when the populace rose against the magic-users. And for only
the second time in the history of the Order, the Robes came together. The
first time was during the creation of the dragon orbs, which contained the
essences of good and evil, bound together by neutrality. After that, they went
their separate ways. Now, allied by a common threat, they came together once
more to protect their own.
"The magicians themselves destroyed two of the Towers, rather than let the
mobs invade them and meddle with that which was beyond their understanding.
The destruction of these two Towers laid waste to the countryside around them
and frightened the Kingpriest-for there was a Tower of High Sorcery located in
Istar and one in Palanthas. As for the third, in the Forest of Wayreth, few
cared what became of it, for it was far from any center of civilization.
"And so the Kingpriest approached the magic-users with a show of piety. If
they would leave the two Towers standing, he would let them withdraw in peace,
removing their books and scrolls and magical implements to the Tower of High
Sorcery in Wayreth. Sorrowfully the magic-users accepted his offer."
"But why didn't they fight?" Laurana interrupted. "I've seen Raistlin and ...
and Fizban when they're angry! I can't imagine what truly powerful wizards
must be like!"
"Ah, but stop and consider this, Laurana. Your young friend-Raistlin-grew
exhausted casting even a few relatively minor spells. And once a spell is
cast, it is gone from his memory forever unless he reads his spellbook and
studies it once more. This is true of even the highest level mages. It is how
the gods protect us from those who might otherwise become too powerful and
aspire to godhood itself. Wizards must sleep, they must be able to
concentrate, and they must spend time in daily study. How could they withstand
besieging mobs? And, too, how could they destroy their own people?
"No, they felt they had to accept the Kingpriest's offer. Even the Black
Robes, who cared little for the populace, saw that they must be defeated and
that magic itself might be lost from the world. They withdrew from the Tower
of High Sorcery at Istar-and almost immediately the Kingpriest moved in to
occupy it. Then they abandoned the Tower here, in Palanthas. And the story of
this Tower is a terrible one."
Astinus, who had been relating this without expression in his voice, suddenly
grew solemn, his face darkening.
"Well I remember that day," he said, speaking more to himself than to those
around the table. "They brought their books and scrolls to me, to be kept in
my library. For there were many, many books and scrolls in the Tower, more
than the magic-users could carry to Wayreth. They knew I would guard them and
treasure them. Many of the spellbooks were ancient and could no longer be
read, since they had been bound with spells of protection-spells to which the
Key... had been lost. The Key . . ."
Astinus fell silent, pondering. Then, with a sigh, as if brushing away dark
thoughts, he continued.
"The people of Palanthas gathered around the Tower as the highest of the
Order-the Wizard of the White Robes-closed the Tower's slender gates of gold
and locked them with a silver key. The Lord of Palanthas watched him eagerly.
All knew the Lord intended to move into the Tower, as his mentor-the
Kingpriest of Istar-had done. His eyes lingered greedily on the Tower, for
legends of the wonders within-both fair and evil- had spread throughout the
land."
"Of all the beautiful buildings in Palanthas," murmured Lord Amothus, "the
Tower of High Sorcery was said to be the most splendid. And now. . . ."
"What happened?" asked Laurana, feeling chilled as the darkness of night crept
through the room, wishing someone would summon the servants to light the
candles.
'The Wizard started to hand the silver key to the Lord," continued Astinus in
a deep, sad voice. "Suddenly, one of the Black Robes appeared in a window in
the upper stories. As the people stared at him in horror, he shouted, 'The
gates will remain closed and the halls empty until the day comes when the
master of both the past and the present returns with power!' Then the evil
mage leaped out, hurling himself down upon the gates. And as the barbs of
silver and of gold pierced the black robes, he cast a curse upon the Tower.
His blood stained the ground, the silver and golden gates withered and twisted
and turned to black. The shimmering tower of white and red faded to ice gray
stone, its black minarets crumbled.
'The Lord and the people fled in terror and, to this day, no one dares
approach the Tower of Palanthas. Not even kender"-Astinus smiled briefly-"who
fear nothing in this world. The curse is so powerful it keeps away all
mortals-"
"Until the master of past and present returns," Laurana murmured.
"Bah! The man was mad." Lord Amothus sniffed. "No man is master of past and
present-unless it be you, Astinus."
"I am not master!" Astinus said in such hollow, ringing tones that everyone in
the room stared at him. "I remember the past, I record the present. I do not
seek to dominate either!"
"Mad, like I said." The Lord shrugged. "And now we are forced to endure an
eyesore like the Tower because no one can stand to live around it or get close
enough to tear it down."
"I think to tear it down would be a shame," Laurana said softly, gazing at the
Tower through the window. "It belongs here. . . ."
"Indeed it does, young woman," Astinus replied, regarding her strangely.
Night's shadows had deepened as Astinus talked. Soon the Tower was shrouded in
darkness while lights sparkled in the rest of the city. Palanthas seemed to be
trying to out-glitter the stars, thought Laurana, but a round patch of
blackness will remain always in its center.
"How sad and how tragic," she murmured, feeling that she must say something,
since Astinus was staring straight at her. "And that-that dark thing I saw
fluttering, pinned to the fence-" She stopped in horror.
"Mad, mad," repeated Lord Amothus gloomily. "Yes, that is what's left of the
body, so we suppose. No one has been able to get close enough to find out."
Laurana shuddered. Putting her hands to her aching head, she knew that this
grim story would haunt her for nights, and she wished she'd never heard it.
Bound up in her destiny! Angrily she put the thought out of her mind. It
didn't matter. She didn't have time for this. Her destiny looked bleak enough
without adding nightmarish nursery tales.
As if reading her thoughts, Astinus suddenly rose to his feet and called for
more light.
"For," he said coldly, staring at Laurana, "the past is lost. Your future is
your own. And we have a great deal of work to do before morning."
Commander of the knights of Solamnia stood, "First, I must read a communiqu I
received from Lord Gunthar only a few hours ago." The Lord of Palanthas
withdrew a scroll from the folds of his finely woven, woolen robes and spread
it on the table, smoothing it carefully with his hands. Leaning his head back,
he peered at it, obviously trying to bring it into focus.
Laurana-feeling certain that this must be in reply to a message of her own she
had prompted Lord Amothus to send to Lord Gunthar two days earlier-bit her lip
in impatience.
"It's creased," Lord Amothus said in apology. "The griffons the elven lords
have so kindly loaned us"-he bowed to Laurana, who bowed back, suppressing the
urge to rip the message from his hand-"cannot be taught to carry these scrolls
without rumpling them. Ah, now I can make it out. 'Lord Gunthar to Amothus,
Lord of Palanthas. Greetings.' Charming man. Lord Gunthar." The Lord looked
up. "He was here only last year, during Spring Dawning festival-which, by the
way, takes place in three weeks, my dear. Perhaps you would grace our
festivities-"
"I would be pleased to, lord, if any of us are here in three weeks," Laurana
said, clenching her hands tightly beneath the table in an effort to remain
calm.
Lord Amothus blinked, then smiled indulgently. "Certainly. The dragonarmies.
Well, to continue reading. 'I am truly grieved to hear of the loss of so many
of our Knighthood. Let us find comfort in the knowledge that they died
victorious, fighting this great evil that darkens our lands. I feel an even
greater personal grief in the loss of three of our finest leaders: Derek
Crownguard, Knight of the Rose, Alfred MarKenin, Knight of the Sword, and
Sturm Brightblade, Knight of the Crown." The Lord turned to Laurana.
"Brightblade. He was your close friend, I believe, my dear?"
"Yes, my lord," Laurana murmured, lowering her head, letting her golden hair
fall forward to hide the anguish in her eyes. It had been only a short time
since they had buried Sturm in the Chamber of Paladine beneath the ruins of
the High Clerist's Tower. The pain of his loss still ached.
"Continue reading, Amothus," Astinus commanded coldly. "I cannot afford to
take too much time from my studies."
"Certainly, Astinus," the Lord said, flushing. He began to read again
hurriedly. "This tragedy leaves the knights in unusual circumstances. First,
the Knighthood is now made up of- as I understand-primarily Knights of the
Crown-the lowest order of knights. This means that-while all have passed their
tests and won their shields-they are, however, young and inexperienced. For
most, this was their first battle. It also leaves us without any suitable
commanders since-according to the Measure-there must be a representative from
each of the three Orders of Knights in command.' "
Laurana could hear the faint jingle of armor and the rattle of swords as the
knights present shifted uncomfortably. They were temporary leaders until this
question of command could be settled. Closing her eyes, Laurana sighed.
Please, Gunthar, she thought, let your choice be a wise one. So many have died
because of political maneuvering. Let this be an end to it!
"Therefore I appoint to fill the position of leadership of the Knights of
Solamnia, Lauralanthalasa of the royal house of Qualinesti-' " The Lord paused
a moment, as if uncertain he had read correctly. Laurana's eyes opened wide as
she stared at him in shocked disbelief. But she was not more shocked than the
knights themselves.
Lord Amothus peered vaguely at the scroll, rereading it. Then, hearing a
murmur of impatience from Astinus, he hurried on-" 'who is the most
experienced person currently in the field and the only one with knowledge of
how to use the dragonlances. I attest to the validity of this Writ by my seal.
Lord Gunthar Uth Wistan, Grand Master of the Knights of Solamnia, and so
forth.' " The Lord looked up. "Congratulations, my dear-or perhaps I should
say 'general.' "
Laurana sat very still. For a moment she was so filled with anger she thought
she might stalk out of the room. Visions swam before her eyes-Lord Alfred's
headless corpse, poor Derek dying in his madness, Sturm's peace-filled,
lifeless eyes, the bodies of the knights who had died in the Tower laid out in
a row...

And now she was in command. An elfmaid from the royal household. Not even old
enough-by elven standards-to be free of her father's house. A spoiled little
girl who had run away from her home to "chase after" her childhood sweetheart,
Tanis Half-Elven. That spoiled little girl had grown up. Fear, pain, great
loss, great sorrow-she knew that-in some ways-she was older than her father
now.
Turning her head, she saw Sir Markham and Sir Patrick exchange glances. Of all
the Knights of the Crown, these two had served longest. She knew both men to
be valiant soldiers and honorable men. They had both fought bravely at the
High Clerist's Tower. Why hadn't Gunthar picked one of them, as she herself
had recommended?
Sir Patrick stood up, his face dark. "I cannot accept this," he said in a low
voice. "Lady Laurana is a valiant warrior, certainly, but she has never
commanded men in the field."
"Have you, young knight?" Astinus asked imperturbably.
Patrick flushed. "No, but that's different. She's a wom-"
"Oh, really, Patrick!" Sir Markham laughed. He was a carefree, easy-going
young man-a startling contrast to the stern and serious Patrick. "Hair on your
chest doesn't make you a general. Relax! It's politics. Gunthar has made a
wise move."
Laurana flushed, knowing he was right. She was a safe choice until Gunthar had
time to rebuild the Knighthood and entrench himself firmly as leader.
"But there is no precedent for this!" Patrick continued to argue, avoiding
Laurana's eyes. "I'm certain that-according to the Measure-women are not
permitted in the Knighthood-"
"You are wrong," Astinus stated flatly. "And there is precedent. In the Third
Dragon wars, a young woman was accepted into the Knighthood following the
deaths of her father and her brothers. She rose to Knight of the Sword and
died honorably in battle, mourned by her brethren."
No one spoke. Lord Amothus appeared extremely embarrassed-he had almost sunk
beneath the table at Sir Markham's reference to hairy chests. Astinus stared
coldly at Sir Patrick. Sir Markham toyed with his wineglass, glancing once at
Laurana and smiling. After a brief, internal struggle, visible in his face,
Sir Patrick sat back down, scowling.
Sir Markham raised his glass. "To our commander."
Laurana did not respond. She was in command. Command of what? she asked
herself bitterly. The tattered remnants of the Knights of Solamnia, who had
been sent to Palanthas; of the hundreds that had sailed, no more than fifty
survived. They had won a victory... but at what terrible cost? A dragon orb
destroyed, the High Clerist's Tower in ruins...
"Yes, Laurana," said Astinus, "they have left you to pick up the pieces."
She looked up startled, frightened of this strange man who spoke her thoughts.
"I didn't want this," she murmured through lips that felt numb.
"I don't believe any of us were sitting around praying for a war," Astinus
remarked caustically. "But war has come, and now you must do what you can to
win it." He rose to his feet. The Lord of Palanthas, the generals, and the
Knights stood up respectfully.
Laurana remained seated, her eyes on her hands. She felt Astinus staring at
her, and she stubbornly refused to look at him.
"Must you go, Astinus?" Lord Amothus asked plaintively.
"I must. My studies wait. Already I have been gone too long. You have a great
deal to do now, much of it mundane and boring. You do not need me. You have
your leader." He made a motion with his hand.
"What?" Laurana said, catching his gesture out of the corner of her eye. Now
she looked at him, then her eyes went to the Lord of Palanthas. "Me? You can't
mean that! I'm only in command of the Knights-"
"Which makes you commander of the armies of the city of Palanthas, if we so
choose," the Lord said. "And if Astinus recommends you-"
"I don't," Astinus said bluntly. "I cannot recommend anyone. I do not shape
history-" He stopped suddenly, and Laurana was surprised to see the mask slip
from his face, revealing grief and sorrow. "That is, I have endeavored not to
shape history. Sometimes, even I fail...." He sighed, then regained control of
himself, replacing the mask. "I have done what I came to do, given you a
knowledge of the past. It may or may not be relevant to your future."
He turned to leave.
"Wait!" Laurana cried, rising. She started to take a step toward him, then
faltered as the cold, stern eyes met hers, forbidding as solid stone. "You-you
see-everything that is happening, as it occurs?"
"I do."
'Then you could tell us-where the dragonarmies are, what they are doing-"
"Bah! You know that as well as I do." Astinus turned away again.
Laurana cast a quick glance around the room. She saw the lord and the generals
watching her with amusement. She knew she was acting like that spoiled little
girl again, but she must have answers! Astinus was near the door; the servants
were opening it. Casting a defiant look at the others, Laurana left the table
and walked quickly across the polished marble floor, stumbling over the hem of
her dress in her haste. Astinus, hearing her, stopped within the doorway.
"I have two questions," she said softly, coming near him.
"Yes," he answered, staring into her green eyes, "one in your head and one in
your heart. Ask the first."
"Is there a dragon orb still in existence?"
Astinus was silent a moment. Once more Laurana saw pain in his eyes, as his
ageless face appeared suddenly old. "Yes," he said finally. "I can tell you
that much. One still exists. But it is beyond your ability to use or to find.
Put it out of your thoughts."
"Tanis had it," Laurana persisted. "Does this mean he has lost it? Where"-she
hesitated, this was the question in her heart- "where is he?"
"Put it out of your thoughts."
"What do you mean?" Laurana felt chilled by the man's frost-rimed voice.
"I do not predict the future. I see only the present, as it becomes the past.
Thus I have seen it since time began. I have seen love that, through its
willingness to sacrifice everything, brought hope to the world. I have seen
love that tried to overcome pride and a lust for power, but failed. The world
is darker for its failure, but it is only as a cloud dims the sun. The sun-the
love-still remains. Finally I have seen love lost in darkness. Love misplaced,
misunderstood, because the lover did not know his-or her-own heart."
"You speak in riddles," Laurana said angrily.
"Do I?" Astinus asked. He bowed. "Farewell, Lauralanthalasa. My advice to you
is: concentrate on your duty."
The historian walked out the door.
Laurana stood staring after him, repeating his words: "love lost in darkness."
Was it a riddle or did she know the answer and simply refuse to admit it to
herself, as Astinus implied?
" 'I left Tanis in Flotsam to handle matters in my absence.' " Kitiara had
said those words. Kitiara-the Dragon Highlord. Kitiara-the human woman Tanis
loved.
Suddenly the pain in Laurana's heart-the pain that had been there since she
heard Kitiara speak those words-vanished, leaving a cold emptiness, a void of
darkness like the missing constellations in the night sky. "Love lost in
darkness." Tanis was lost. That is what Astinus was trying to tell her.
Concentrate on your duties. Yes, she would concentrate on her duties, since
that was all she had left.
Turning around to face the Lord of Palanthas and his generals, Laurana threw
back her head, her golden hair glinting in the light of the candles. "I will
take the leadership of the armies," she said in a voice nearly as cold as the
void in her soul.


"Now this is stonework!" stated Flint in satisfaction, stamping on the
battlements of the Old City Wall beneath his feet. "Dwarves built this, no
doubt about it. Look how each stone is cut with careful precision to fit
perfectly within the wall, no two quite alike."
"Fascinating," said Tasslehoff, yawning. "Did dwarves build that Tower we-"
"Don't remind me!" Flint snapped. "And dwarves did not build the Towers of
High Sorcery. They were built by the wizards themselves, who created them from
the very bones of the world, raising the rocks up out of the soil with their
magic."
"That's wonderful!" breathed Tas, waking up. "I wish I could have been there.
How-"
"It's nothing," continued the dwarf loudly, glaring at Tas, "compared to the
work of the dwarven rockmasons, who spent centuries perfecting their art. Now
look at this stone. See the texture of the chisel marks-"
"Here comes Laurana," Tas said thankfully, glad to end his lesson in dwarven
architecture.
Flint quit peering at the rock wall to watch Laurana walk toward them from a
great dark hallway, which opened onto the battlement. She was dressed once
more in the armor she had worn at the High Clerist's Tower; the blood had been
cleaned off the gold-decorated steel breastplate, the dents repaired. Her
long, honey-colored hair flowed from beneath her red-plumed helm, gleaming in
Solinari's light. She walked slowly, her eyes on the eastern horizon where the
mountains were dark shadows against the starry sky. The moonlight touched her
face as well. Looking at her, Flint sighed.
"She's changed," he said to Tasslehoff softly. "And elves never change. Do you
remember when we met her in Qualinesti? In the fall, only six months ago. Yet
it could be years-"
"She's still not over Sturm's death. It's only been a week," Tas said, his
impish kender face unusually serious and thoughtful.
"It's not just that." The old dwarf shook his head. "It had something to do
with that meeting she had with Kitiara, up on the wall of the High Clerist's
Tower. It was something Kitiara did or said. Blast her!" the dwarf snapped
viciously. "I never did trust her! Even in the old days. It didn't surprise me
to see her in the get-up of a Dragon Highlord! I'd give a mountain of steel
coins to know what she said to Laurana that snuffed the light right out of
her. She was like a ghost when we brought her down from the wall, after
Kitiara and her blue dragon left. I'll bet my beard," muttered the dwarf,
"that it had something to do with Tanis."
"I can't believe Kitiara's a Dragon Highlord. She was always . . . always . .
." Tas groped for words, "well, fun!"
"Fun?" said Flint, his brows contracting. "Maybe. But cold and selfish, too.
Oh, she was charming enough when she wanted to be." Flint's voice sank to a
whisper. Laurana was getting close enough to hear. "Tanis never did see it. He
always believed there was more to Kitiara beneath the surface. He thought he
alone knew her, that she covered herself with a hard shell to conceal her
tender heart. Hah! She had as much heart as these stones."
"What's the news, Laurana?" Tas asked cheerfully as the elf-maid came up to
them.
Laurana smiled down at her old friends, but-as Flint said- it was no longer
the innocent, gay smile of the elfmaid who had walked beneath the aspen trees
of Qualinesti. Now her smile was like the bleakness of the sun in a cold
winter sky. It gave light but no warmth-perhaps because there was no matching
warmth in her eyes.
"I am commander of the armies," she said flatly.
"Congratu-" began Tas, but his voice died at the sight of her face.
'There is nothing to congratulate me about," Laurana said bitterly. "What do I
command? A handful of knights, stuck in a ruined bastion miles away in the
Vingaard mountains, and a thousand men who stand upon the walls of this city."
She clenched her gloved fist, her eyes on the eastern sky that was beginning
to show the faintest glimmer of morning light. "We should be out there! Now!
While the dragonarmy is still scattered and trying to regroup! We could defeat
them easily. But, no, we dare not go out onto the Plains-not even with the
dragonlances. For what good are they against dragons in flight? If we had a
dragon orb-"
She fell silent for a moment, then drew a deep breath. Her face hardened.
"Well, we don't. It's no use thinking about it. So we'll stand here, on the
battlements of Palanthas, and wait for death."
"Now, Laurana" Flint remonstrated, clearing his throat gruffly, "perhaps
things aren't that dark. There are good solid walls around this city. A
thousand men can hold it easily. The gnomes with their catapults guard the
harbor. The knights guard the only pass through the Vingaard Mountains and
we've sent men to reinforce them. And we do have the dragonlances-a few at any
rate, and Gunthar sent word that more are on the way. So we can't attack
dragons in flight? They'll think twice about flying over the walls-"
"That isn't enough, Flint!" Laurana sighed. "Oh, sure, we may hold the
dragonarmies off for a week or two weeks or maybe even a month. But then what?
What happens to us when they control the land around us? All we can do against
the dragons is shut ourselves up in safe little havens. Soon this world will
be nothing but tiny islands of light surrounded by vast oceans of darkness.
And then-one by one-the darkness will engulf us all."
Laurana laid her head down upon her hand, resting against the wall.
"How long has it been since you've slept?" Flint asked sternly.
"I don't know," she answered. "My waking and sleeping seem mixed together. I'm
walking in a dream half the time, and sleeping through reality the other
half."
"Get some sleep now," the dwarf said in what Tas referred to as his
Grandfather Voice. "We're turning in. Our watch is almost up."
"I can't," Laurana said, rubbing her eyes. The thought of sleep suddenly made
her realize how exhausted she was. "I came to tell you-we received reports
that dragons were seen, flying westward over the city of Kalaman."
"They're heading this direction then," Tas said, visualizing a map in his
head.
"Whose reports?" asked the dwarf suspiciously.
"The griffons. Now don't scowl like that." Laurana smiled slightly at the
sight of the dwarf's disgust. "The griffons have been a vast help to us. If
the elves contribute nothing more to this war than their griffons, they will
have already done a great deal."
"Griffons are dumb animals," Flint stated. "And I trust them about as far as I
trust kender. Besides," the dwarf continued, ignoring Tas's indignant glare,
"it doesn't make sense. The Highlords don't send dragons to attack without the
armies backing them up..."
"Maybe the armies aren't as disorganized as we heard."
Laurana sighed wearily. "Or maybe the dragons are simply being sent to wreak
what havoc they can. Demoralize the city, lay waste to the surrounding
countryside. I don't know. Look, word's spread."
Flint glanced around. Those soldiers that were off duty were still in their
places, staring eastward at the mountains whose snow-capped peaks were turning
a delicate pink in the brightening dawn. Talking in low voices they were
joined by others, just waking and hearing the news.
"I feared as much." Laurana sighed. 'This will start a panic! I warned Lord
Amothus to keep the news quiet, but the Palanthians aren't used to keeping
anything quiet! There, what did I tell you?"
Looking down from the wall, the friends could see the streets starting to fill
with people-half-dressed, sleepy, frightened. Watching them run from house to
house, Laurana could imagine the rumors being spread.
She bit her lip, her green eyes flared in anger. "Now I'll have to pull men
off the walls to get these people back into their homes. I can't have them in
the streets when the dragons attack! You men, come with me!" Gesturing to a
group of soldiers standing nearby, Laurana hurried away. Flint and Tas watched
her disappear down the stairs, heading for the Lord's palace. Soon they saw
armed patrols fanning out into the streets, trying to herd people back into
their homes and quell the rising tide of panic.
"Fine lot of good that's doing!" Flint snorted. The streets were getting more
crowded by the moment.
But Tas, standing on a block of stone staring out over the wall, shook his
head. "It doesn't matter!" he whispered in despair. "Flint, look-"
The dwarf climbed hurriedly up to stand beside his friend. Already men were
pointing and shouting, grabbing bows and spears. Here and there, the barbed
silver point of the dragonlance could be seen, glinting in the torchlight.
"How many?" Flint asked, squinting.
"Ten," Tas answered slowly. 'Two flights. Big dragons, too. Maybe the red
ones, like we saw in Tarsis. I can't see their color against the dawn's light,
but I can see riders on them. Maybe a Highlord. Maybe Kitiara... Gee," Tas
said, struck by a sudden thought, "I hope I get to talk to her this time. It
must be interesting being a Highlord-"
His words were lost in the sound of bells ringing from towers all over the
city. The people in the streets, stared up at the walls where the soldiers
were pointing and exclaiming. Far below them, Tas could see Laurana emerge
from the Lord's palace, followed by the Lord himself and two of his generals.
The kender could tell from the set of her shoulders that Laurana was furious.
She gestured at the bells, apparently wanting them silenced. But it was too
late. The people of Palanthas went wild with terror. And most of the
inexperienced soldiers were in nearly as bad a state as the civilians. The
sound of shrieks and wails and hoarse calls rose up into the air. Grim
memories of Tarsis came back to Tas-people trampled to death in the streets,
houses exploding in flames.
The kender turned slowly around. "I guess I don't want to talk to Kitiara," he
said softly, brushing his hand across his eyes as he watched the dragons fly
closer and closer. "I don't want to know what it's like being a Highlord,
because it must be sad and dark and horrible... Wait-"
Tas stared eastward. He couldn't believe his eyes, so he leaned far out,
perilously close to falling over the edge of the wall.
"Flint!" he shouted, waving his arms.
"What is it?" Flint snapped. Catching hold of Tas by the belt of his blue
leggings, the dwarf hauled the excited kender back in with jerk.
"It's like in Pax Tharkas!" Tas babbled incoherently. "Like Huma's tomb. Like
Fizban said! They're here! They've come!"
"Who's here!" Flint roared in exasperation.
Jumping up and down in excitement, his pouches bouncing around wildly, Tas
turned without answering and dashed off, leaving the dwarf fuming on the
stairs, calling out, "Who's here, you rattlebrain?"
"Laurana!" shouted Tas's shrill voice, splitting the early morning air like a
slightly off-key trumpet. "Laurana, they've come! They're here! Like Fizban
said! Laurana!"
Cursing the kender beneath his breath, Flint stared back out to the east.
Then, glancing around swiftly, the dwarf slipped a hand inside a vest pocket.
Hurriedly he drew out a pair of glasses and-looking around again to make
certain no one was watching him-he slipped them on.
Now he could make out what had been nothing more than a haze of pink light
broken by the darker, pointed masses of the mountain range. The dwarf drew a
deep, trembling breath. His eyes dimmed with tears. Quickly he snatched the
glasses off his nose and put them back into their case, slipping them back
into his pocket. But he'd worn the glasses just long enough to see the dawn
touch the wings of dragons with a pink light-pink glinting off silver.
"Put your weapons down, lads," Flint said to the men around him, mopping his
eyes with one of the kender's handkerchiefs. "Praise be to Reorx. Now we have
a chance. Now we have a chance..."

8
The Oath of the Dragons.

The silver dragons settled to the ground on the outskirts of the great city of
Palanthas, their wings filled the morning sky with a blinding radiance. The
people crowded the walls to stare out uneasily at the beautiful, magnificent
creatures.
At first the people had been so terrified of the huge beasts, that they were
intent on driving them away, even when Laurana assured them that these dragons
were not evil. Finally Astinus himself emerged from his library and coldly
informed Lord Amothus that these dragons would not harm them. Reluctantly the
people of Palanthas laid down their weapons.
Laurana knew, however, that the people would have believed Astinus if he told
them the sun would rise at midnight. They did not believe in the dragons.
It wasn't until Laurana herself walked out of the city gates and straight into
the arms of a man who had been riding one of the beautiful silver dragons that
the people begin to think there might be something to this children's story
after all.
"Who is that man? Who has brought the dragons to us? Why have the dragons
come?"
Jostling and shoving, the people leaned over the wall, asking questions and
listening to the wrong answers. Out in the valley, the dragons slowly fanned
their wings to keep their circulation going in the chill morning.
As Laurana embraced the man, another person climbed down off one of the
dragons-a woman whose hair gleamed as silver as the dragon's wings. Laurana
embraced this woman, too. Then, to the wonder of the people, Astinus led the
three of them to the great library, where they were admitted by the
Aesthetics. The huge doors shut behind them.
The people were left to mill about, buzzing with questions and casting dubious
glances at the dragons sitting before their city walls.
Then the bells rang out once more. Lord Amothus was calling a meeting.
Hurriedly the people left the walls to fill the city square before the Lord's
palace as he came out onto a balcony to answer their questions.
"These are silver dragons," he shouted, "good dragons who have joined us in
our battle against the evil dragons as in the legend of Huma. The dragons have
been brought to our city by-", whatever else the Lord intended to say was lost
in cheering. The bells rang out again, this time in celebration. People
flooded the streets, singing and dancing. Finally, after a futile attempt to
continue, the Lord simply declared the day a holiday and returned to his
palace.

The following is an excerpt from the Chronicles, A History of Krynn, as
recorded by Astinus of Palanthas. It can be found under the heading: "The Oath
of the Dragons."
As I, Astinus, write these words, I look on the face of the elflord,
Gilthanas, younger son of Solostaran, Speaker of the Suns, lord of the
Qualinesti. Gilthanas's face is very much like his sister Laurana's face, and
not just in family resemblance. Both have the delicate features and ageless
quality of all elves. But these two are different. Both faces are marked with
a sorrow not to be seen on the faces of elves living on Krynn. Although I fear
that, before this war is ended, many elves will have this same look. And
perhaps this is not a bad thing, for it seems that, finally, the elves are
learning that they are part of this world, not above it.
To one side of Gilthanas sits his sister. To the other sits one of the most
beautiful women I have seen walk on Krynn. She appears to be an elfmaid, a
Wilder elf. But she does not deceive my eyes with her magic arts. She was
never born of woman-elf or no. She is a dragon-a silver dragon, sister of the
Silver Dragon who was beloved of Huma, Knight of Solamnia. It has been
Silvara's fate to fall in love with a mortal, as did her sister. But, unlike
Huma, this mortal, Gilthanas, cannot accept his fate. He looks at her... she
looks at him. Instead of love, I see a smoldering anger within him that is
slowly poisoning both their souls.
Silvara speaks. Her voice is sweet and musical. The light of my candle gleams
in her beautiful silver hair and in her deep night-blue eyes.
"After I gave Theros Ironfeld the power to forge the dragonlances within the
heart of the Monument of the Silver Dragon," Silvara tells me, "I spent much
time with the companions before they took the lances to the Council of
Whitestone. I showed them through the Monument, I showed them the paintings of
the Dragon War, which picture good dragons-silver and gold and bronze-fighting
the evil dragons.
'Where are your people?' the companions asked me. 'Where are the good dragons?
Why aren't they helping us in our time of need?'
"I held out against their questions, as long as I could..."
Here Silvara stops speaking and looks at Gilthanas with her heart in her eyes.
He does not meet her gaze but stares at the floor. Silvara sighs and resumes
her story.
"Finally, I could resist his-their-pressure no longer. I told them about the
Oath.
"When Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness, and her evil dragons were banished, the
good dragons left the land to maintain the balance between good and evil. Made
of the world, we returned to the world, sleeping an ageless sleep. We would
have remained asleep, in a world of dreams, but then came the Cataclysm and
Takhisis found her way back into the world again.
"Long had she planned for this return, should fate give it to her, and she was
prepared. Before Paladine was aware of her, Takhisis woke the evil dragons
from their sleep and ordered them to slip into the deep and secret places of
the world and steal the eggs of the good dragons, who slept on, unaware...
The evil dragons brought the eggs of their brethren to the city of Sanction
where the dragonarmies were forming. Here, in the volcanoes known as the Lords
of Doom, the eggs of the good dragons were hidden.
"Great was the grief of the good dragons when Paladine awoke them from their
sleep and they discovered what had occurred. They went to Takhisis to find out
what price they would have to pay for the return of their unborn children. It
was a terrible price. Takhisis demanded an oath. Each of the good dragons must
swear that they would not participate in the war she was about to wage on
Krynn. It was the good dragons who had helped bring about her defeat in the
last war. This time she meant to insure that they would not become involved."
Here Silvara looks at me pleadingly, as if I were to judge them. I shake my
head sternly. Far be it from me to judge anyone. I am a historian.
She continues:
"What could we do? Takhisis told us they would murder our children as they
slept in their eggs unless we took the Oath. Paladine could not help us. The
choice was ours..."
Silvara's head droops, her hair hiding her face. I can hear tears choke her
voice. Her words are barely audible to me.
"We took the Oath."
She cannot continue, that is obvious. After staring at her for a moment,
Gilthanas clears his throat and begins to speak, his voice harsh.
"I-that is-Theros and my sister and I, finally persuaded Silvara that this
Oath was wrong. There must be a way, we said, to rescue the eggs of the good
dragons. Perhaps a small force of men might be able to steal the eggs back.
Silvara was not convinced that I was right, but she did agree-after much
talking-to take me to Sanction so that I could see for myself if such a plan
might work.
"Our journey was long and difficult. Someday I may relate the dangers we
faced, but I cannot now. I am too weary and we do not have time. The
dragonarmies are reorganizing. We can catch them off guard, if we attack soon.
I can see Laurana burning with impatience, eager to pursue them, even as we
are speaking. So I will make our tale short.
"Silvara-in her 'elven form' as you see her now-"
The bitterness in the elflord's voice cannot be expressed.
"-and I were captured outside of Sanction and made prisoners of the Dragon
Highlord, Ariakas."
Gilthanas's fist clenches, his face is pale with anger and fear.
"Lord Verminaard was nothing, nothing compared to Lord Ariakas. This man's
evil power is immense! And he is as intelligent as he is cruel, for it is his
strategy that controls the dragonarmies and has led them to victory after
victory.
"The suffering we endured at his hands, I cannot describe. I do not believe I
can ever relate what they did to us!"
The young elflord trembles violently. Silvara starts to reach out a hand to
comfort him, but he draws away from her and continues his story.
"Finally-with help-we escaped. We were in Sanction itself-a hideous town,
built in the valley formed by the volcanoes-the Lords of Doom. These mountains
tower over all, their foul smoke corrupts the air. The buildings are all new
and modern, constructed with the blood of slaves. Built into the sides of the
mountains is a temple to Takhisis, the Dark Queen. The dragon eggs are held
deep within the heart of the volcanoes. It was here, into the temple of the
Dark Queen, that Silvara and I made our way.
"Can I describe the temple, except to say it is a building of darkness and of
flame? Tall pillars, carved out of the burning rock, soar into the sulphurous
caverns. By secret ways, known only to the priests of Takhisis themselves, we
traveled, descending lower and lower. You ask who helped us? I cannot say, for
her life would be forfeit. I will add only that some god must have been
watching over us."
Here Silvara interrupts to murmur, "Paladine," but Gilthanas brushes that
aside with a gesture.
"We came to the very bottom chambers and here we found the eggs of the good
dragons. At first it seemed all was well. I had ... a plan. It matters little
now, but I saw how we might have been able to rescue the eggs. As I said, it
matters little. Chamber after chamber we passed, and the shining eggs, the
eggs tinged with silver, gold, and bronze lay gleaming in the fire's light.
And then . . ."
The elflord pauses. His face, already paler than death, grows more pallid
still. Fearing he might faint, I beckon to one of the Aesthetics to bring him
wine. On taking a sip, he rallies and keeps on talking. But I can tell by the
far-off look in his eyes that he sees the remembered horror of what he
witnessed. As for Silvara-I will write of her in its place.
Gilthanas continues:
"We came to a chamber and found there . . . not eggs . . . nothing but the
shells ... shattered, broken. Silvara cried out in anger, and I feared we
might be discovered. Neither of us knew what this portended, but we both felt
a chill in our blood that not even the heat of the volcano could warm."
Gilthanas pauses. Silvara begins to sob, very softly. He looks at her and I
see-for the first time-love and compassion in his eyes.
"Take her out," he tells one of the Aesthetics. "She must rest."
The Aesthetics lead her gently from the room. Gilthanas licks lips that are
cracked and dry, then speaks softly.
"What happened next will haunt me, even after death. Nightly I dream of it. I
have not slept since but that I waken, screaming.
"Silvara and I stood before the chamber with the shattered eggs, staring at
it, wondering... when we heard the sound of chanting coming from the flame-lit
corridor.
'The words of magic!' Silvara said.
"Cautiously we crept nearer, both of us frightened, yet drawn by some horrid
fascination. Closer and closer we came-and then we could see..."
He shuts his eyes, he sobs. Laurana lays her hand on his arm, her eyes soft
with mute sympathy. Gilthanas regains control and goes on.
"Inside a cavern room, at the bottom of the volcano, stands an altar to
Takhisis. What it may have been carved to represent, I could not tell, for it
was so covered with green blood and black slime that it seemed a horrid growth
springing from the rock. Around the altar were robed figures-dark clerics of
Takhisis and magic-users wearing the Black Robes. Silvara and I watched in awe
as a dark-robed cleric brought forth a shining golden dragon egg and placed it
upon that foul altar. Joining hands, the Black Robed magic-users and the dark
clerics began a chant. The words burned the mind. Silvara and I clung to each
other, fearing we would be driven mad by the evil we could feel but could not
understand.
"And then . . . then the golden egg upon the altar began to darken. As we
watched, it turned to a hideous green and then to black. Silvara began to
tremble.
"The blackened egg upon the altar cracked open . . . and a larva-like creature
emerged from the shell. It was loathsome and corrupt to look upon, and I
retched at the sight. My only thought was to flee this horror, but Silvara
realized what was happening and she refused to leave. Together we watched as
the larva split its slime-covered skin and from its body came the evil forms
of...draconians."
There is a gasp of shock at this statement. Gilthanas's head sinks into his
hands. He cannot continue. Laurana puts her arms around him, comforting him,
and he holds onto her hands. Finally he draws a shuddering breath.
"Silvara and I... were nearly discovered. We escaped Sanction-with help once
again-and, more dead than alive, we traveled paths unknown to man or elf to
the ancient haven of the good dragons."
Gilthanas sighs. A look of peace comes to his face.
"Compared to the horrors we had endured, this was like sweet rest after a
night of feverish nightmares. It was difficult to imagine, amid the beauty of
the place, that what we had seen really occurred. And when Silvara told the
dragons what was happening to their eggs, they refused at first to believe it.
Some even accused Silvara of making it up to try to win their aid. But, deep
within their hearts, all knew she spoke truly, and so-at last-they admitted
that they had been deceived and that the Oath was no longer binding.
"The good dragons have come to aid us now. They are flying to all parts of the
land, offering their help. They have returned to the Monument of the Dragon,
to aid in forging the dragonlances just as they came to Huma's aid long ago.
And they have brought with them the Greater Lances that can be mounted on the
dragons themselves, as we saw in the paintings. Now we may ride the dragons
into battle and challenge the Dragon Highlords in the sky."
Gilthanas adds more, a few minor details that I need not record here. Then his
sister leads him from the library to the palace, where he and Silvara may find
what rest they can. I fear it will be long before the terror fades for them,
if it ever does. Like so much that is beautiful in the world, it may be that
their love will fall beneath the darkness that spreads its foul wings over
Krynn.
Thus ends the writing of Astinus of Palanthas on the Oath of the Dragons. A
footnote reveals that further details of the journey of Gilthanas and Silvara
into Sanction, their adventures there, and the tragic history of their love
were recorded by Astinus at a later date and may be found in subsequent
volumes of his Chronicles.

Laurana sat late at night, writing up her orders for the morrow. Only a day
had passed since the arrival of Gilthanas and the silver dragons, but already
her plans for pressing the beleaguered enemy were taking shape. Within a few
days more, she would lead flights of dragons with mounted riders, wielding the
new dragonlances, into battle.
She hoped to secure Vingaard Keep first, freeing the prisoners and slaves held
there. Then she planned to push on south and east, driving the dragonarmies
before her. Finally she would catch them between the hammer of her troops and
the anvil of the Dargaard Mountains that divided Solamnia from Estwilde, If
she could retake Kalaman and its harbor, she could cut the supply lines the
dragonarmy depended on for its survival on this part of the continent.
So intent was Laurana on her plans that she ignored the ringing challenge of
the guard outside her door, nor did she hear the answer. The door opened, but,
assuming it was one of her aides, she did not look up from her work until she
had completed detailing her orders.
Only when the person who entered took the liberty of sitting down in a chair
across from her did Laurana glance up, startled.
"Oh," she said, flushing, "Gilthanas, forgive me. I was so involved.... I
thought you were... but, never mind. How are you feeling? I was worried-"
"I'm all right, Laurana," Gilthanas said abruptly. "I was just more tired than
I realized and I-I haven't slept very well since Sanction." Falling silent, he
sat staring at the maps she had spread on her table. Absently he picked up a
freshly sharpened quill pen and began to smooth the feather with his fingers.
"What is it, Gilthanas?" Laurana asked softly.
Her brother looked up at her and smiled sadly. "You know me too well," he
said. "I never could hide anything from you, not even when we were children."
"Is it Father?" Laurana asked fearfully. "Have you heard something-"
"No, I've heard nothing about our people," Gilthanas said, "except what I told
you-that they have allied with the humans and are working together to drive
the dragonarmies from the Ergoth Isles and from Sancrist."
"It was all because of Alhana," Laurana murmured. "She convinced them that
they could no longer live apart from the world. She even convinced
Porthios..."
"I gather she has convinced him of more than that?" Gilthanas asked without
looking at his sister. He began to poke holes in the parchment with the point
of the quill.
"There has been talk of a marriage," Laurana said slowly. "If so, I am certain
it would be a marriage of convenience only-to unite our people. I cannot
imagine Porthios has it in his heart to love anyone, even a woman as beautiful
as Alhana. As for the elven princess herself-"
Gilthanas sighed. "Her heart is buried in the High Clerist's Tower with
Sturm."
"How did you know?" Laurana looked at him, astonished.
"I saw them together in Tarsis," Gilthanas said. "I saw his face-and I saw
hers. I knew about the Starjewel, too. Since he obviously wanted to keep it
secret, I did not betray him. He was a fine man," Gilthanas added gently. "I
am proud to have known him, and I never thought I would say that of a human."
Laurana swallowed, brushing her hand across her eyes. "Yes," she whispered
huskily, "but that wasn't what you came to tell me."
"No," Gilthanas said, "although perhaps it leads into it." For a moment he sat
in silence, as if making up his mind. Then he drew a breath. "Laurana,
something happened in Sanction that I did not tell Astinus. I won't tell
anyone else, ever, if you ask me not to-"
"Why me?" Laurana said, turning pale. Her hand trembling, she laid down her
pen.
Gilthanas seemed not to have heard her. He stared fixedly at the map as he
spoke. "When-when we were escaping from Sanction, we had to go back to the
palace of Lord Ariakas, I cannot tell you more than that, for to do so would
betray the one who saved our lives many times and who lives in danger there
still, doing what she can to save as many of her people as possible.
"The night we were there, in hiding, waiting to escape, we overheard a
conversation between Lord Ariakas and one of his Highlords. It was a woman,
Laurana"-Gilthanas looked up at her now-"a human woman named Kitiara."
Laurana said nothing. Her face was deathly white, her eyes large and colorless
in the lamplight.
Gilthanas sighed, then leaned near her and placed his hand on hers. Her flesh
was so cold, she might have been a corpse, and he saw, then, that she knew
what he was about to say.
"I remembered what you told me before we left Qualinesti, that this was the
human woman Tanis Half-Elven loved-sister to Caramon and Raistlin. I
recognized her from what I had heard the brothers say about her. I would have
recognized her anyway-she and Raistlin, particularly, bear a family
resemblance. She-she was talking of Tanis, Laurana." Gilthanas stopped,
wondering whether or not he could go on. Laurana sat perfectly still, her face
a mask of ice.
"Forgive me for causing you pain, Laurana, but you must know," Gilthanas said
at last. "Kitiara laughed about Tanis with this Lord Ariakas and
said"-Gilthanas flushed-"I cannot repeat what she said. But they are lovers,
Laurana, that much I can tell you. She made it graphically clear. She asked
Ariakas's permission to have Tanis promoted to the rank of general in the
dragonarmy ... in return for some sort of information he was going to
provide-something about a Green Gemstone Man-"
"Stop," Laurana said without a voice.
"I'm sorry, Laurana!" Gilthanas squeezed her hand, his face filled with
sorrow. "I know how much you love him. I-I understand now what it is like
to-to love someone that much." He closed his eyes, his head bowed. "I
understand what it is like to have that love betrayed..."
"Leave me, Gilthanas," Laurana whispered.
Patting her hand in silent sympathy, the elflord rose and walked softly from
the room, shutting the door behind him.
Laurana sat without moving for long moments. Then, pressing her lips firmly
together, she picked up her pen and continued writing where she had left off
before her brother entered.

9
Victory.

"Let me give you a boost," Tas said helpfully.
"I... no! Wait!" Flint yelled. But it did no good. The energetic kender had
already grabbed hold of the dwarf's boot and heaved, propelling Flint head
first right into the hard-muscled body of the young bronze dragon. Hands
flailing wildly, Flint caught hold of the harness on the dragon's neck and
hung on for dear life, revolving slowly in the air like a sack on a hook.
"What are you doing?" Tas asked in disgust, gazing up at Flint. 'This is no
time to play! Here, let me help-"
"Stop it! Let go!" roared Flint, kicking at Tasslehoff's hands. "Get back! Get
back, I say!"
"Get up yourself, then," Tas said, hurt, backing up.
Puffing and red-faced, the dwarf dropped to the ground. "I'll get on in my own
good time!" he said, glaring at the kender. "Without help from you!"
"Well, you better do it quickly!" Tas shouted, waving his arms. "Because the
others are already mounted!"
The dwarf cast a glance back at the big bronze dragon and folded his arms
across his chest stubbornly. "I've got to give this some thought-"
"Oh, come on, Flint!" Tas begged. "You're only stalling. I want to fly!
Please, Flint, hurry!" The kender brightened. "I could go by myself..."
"You'll do no such thing!" The dwarf snorted. "The war's finally turning in
our favor. Send a kender up on a dragon and that'd be the end. We could just
hand the Highlord the keys to the city. Laurana said the only way you'd fly is
with me-"
"Then get on!" Tas yelled shrilly. "Or the war will be over! I'll be a
grandfather before you move from that spot!"
"You a grandfather," Flint grumbled, glancing once more at the dragon, who was
staring at him with a very unfriendly eye-or so the dwarf imagined. "Why, the
day you're a grandfather is the day my beard will fall out-"
Khirsah, the dragon, gazed down at the two with amused impatience. A young
dragon-as dragons count their time on Krynn-Khirsah agreed with the kender: it
was time to fly, time to fight. He had been one of the first to answer the
Call that went out to all the gold and silver, bronze and brass dragons. The
fire of battle burned hot within him.
Yet, young as he was, the bronze dragon held a great reverence and respect for
the elders of the world. Though vastly older than the dwarf in years, Khirsah
saw in Flint one who had led a long, full, rich life; one worthy of respect.
But, Khirsah thought with a sigh, if I don't do something, the kender's
right-the battle will be over!
"Pardon me, Respected Sire," Khirsah interrupted, using a term of high respect
among dwarves, "may I be of assistance?"
Startled, Flint whirled around to see who spoke.
The dragon bowed its great head. "Honored and Respected Sire," Khirsah said
again, in dwarven.
Amazed, Flint stumbled backwards, tripping over Tasslehoff and sending the
kender tumbling to the ground in a heap.
The dragon snaked forth his huge head and, gently taking hold of the kender's
fur vest in his great teeth, lifted him to his feet like a newborn kitten.
"Well, I-I don't know," stammered Flint, flushing in pleased embarrassment at
being thus addressed by a dragon. "You might... and then again you might not."
Recovering his dignity, the dwarf was determined not to act overawed. "I've
done this a lot, mind you. Riding dragons is nothing new to me. It's just,
well, just that I've-"
"You've never ridden a dragon before in your life!" Tasslehoff said
indignantly. "And-ouch!"
"Just that I've had more important things on my mind lately," Flint said
loudly, punching Tas in the ribs, "and it may take me a while to get the hang
of it again."
"Certainly, Sire," Khirsah said without the ghost of a smile. "May I call you
Flint?"
"You may," said the dwarf gruffly.
"And I'm Tasslehoff Burrfoot," said the kender, extending his small hand.
"Flint never goes anywhere without me. Oh, I guess you haven't any hand to
shake with. Never mind. What's your name?"
"My name to mortals is Fireflash." The dragon gracefully bowed his head. "And
now. Sir Flint, if you will instruct your squire, the kender-"
"Squire!' Tas repeated, shocked. But the dragon ignored him.
"Instruct your squire to come up here; I will help him prepare the saddle and
the lance for you."
Flint stroked his beard thoughtfully. Then, he made a grand gesture.
"You, squire," he said to Tas, who was staring at him with his mouth open,
"get up there and do as you're told."
"I-you-we-" Tas stuttered. But the kender never finished what he had been
about to say because the dragon had lifted him off the ground again. Teeth
clamped firmly in the kender's fur vest, Khirsah raised him up and plopped him
back onto the saddle that was strapped to the dragon's bronze body.
So enchanted was Tas with the idea of actually being atop a dragon that he
hushed up, which is just what Khirsah had intended.
"Now, Tasslehoff Burrfoot," said the dragon, "you were trying to boost your
master up into the saddle backwards. The correct position is the one you are
in now. The metal lance mounting must be on the front right side of the rider,
sitting squarely forward of my right wing joint and above my right
fore-shoulder. Do you see?"
"Yes, I see!" called Tas in high excitement.
"The shield, which you see on the ground, will protect you from most forms of
dragonbreath-"
"Whoa!" shouted the dwarf, crossing his arms and looking stubborn once more.
"What do you mean most forms? And how am I supposed to fly and hold a lance
and a shield all at the same time? Not to mention the fact that the blasted
shield's bigger than me and the kender put together-"
"I thought you had done this before. Sir Flint!" Tas yelled.
The dwarf's face went red with rage and he let out a bellow, but Khirsah cut
in smoothly.
"Sir Flint probably isn't accustomed to this newer model. Squire Burrfoot. The
shield fits over the lance. The lance itself fits through that hole and the
shield rests on the saddle and slides from side to side on the track. When
attacked, you simply duck behind it."
"Hand me the shield. Sir Flint!" the kender yelled.
Grumbling, the dwarf stumped over to where the huge shield lay on the ground.
Groaning with the weight, he managed to lift it up and haul it over to the
dragon's side. With the dragon's help, the dwarf and the kender between them
managed to get the shield mounted. Then Flint went back for the dragonlance.
Lugging it back, he thrust the tip of the lance up to Tas, who caught hold of
it and-after nearly losing his balance and tumbling overboard-pushed the lance
through the hole in the shield. When the pivot locked into position, the lance
was counterbalanced and swung lightly and easily, guided by the kender's small
hand.
"This is great!" Tas said, experimenting. "Wham! There goes one dragon! Wham!
There goes another. I-oh!" Tas stood up on the dragon's back, balanced lightly
as the lance itself. "Flint! Hurry! They're getting ready to leave. I can see
Laurana! She's riding that big silver dragon and she's flying this way,
checking the line. They're going to be signaling in a minute! Hurry, Flint!"
Tas began jumping up and down in excitement.
"First, Sir Flint," said Khirsah, "you must put on the padded vest. There...
that's right. Put the strap through that buckle. No, not that one. The
other-there, you have it."
"You look like a woolly mammoth I saw once." Tas giggled. "Did I ever tell you
that story? I-"
"Confound it!" Flint roared, barely able to walk, engulfed in the heavy,
fur-lined vest. "This is no time for any of your harebrained stories." The
dwarf came nose-tip to nose-tip with the dragon. "Very well, beast! How do I
get up? And mind you- don't you dare lay a tooth on me!"
"Certainly not, Sire," Khirsah said in deep respect. Bowing his head, the
dragon extended one bronze wing full length upon the ground.
"Well, that's more like it!" Flint said. Smoothing his beard with pride, he
shot a smug glance at the stunned kender. Then, solemnly mounting the dragon's
wing, Flint ascended, regally taking his place at the front of the saddle.
'There's the signal!" Tas shrieked, leaping back into the saddle behind Flint.
Kicking his heels against the dragon's flanks, he yelled, "Let's go! Let's
go!"
"Not so fast," said Flint, coolly testing the workings of the dragonlance.
"Hey! How do I steer?"
"You indicate which direction you want me to turn by pulling on the reins,"
Khirsah said, watching for the signal. There it was.
"Ah, I see," said Flint, reaching down. "After all, I am in charge- ulp!"
"Certainly, Sire!" Khirsah leaped into the air, spreading his great wings to
catch the rising currents of air that floated up the face of the small cliff
they stood upon.
"Wait, the reins-" Flint cried, grasping at them as they slid out of his
reach.
Smiling to himself, Khirsah pretended not to hear.
The good dragons and the knights who rode them were gathered on the rolling
foothills east of the Vingaard Mountains. Here, the chill winter winds had
given way to warm breezes from the north, melting the frost from the ground.
The rich smell of growth and renewal perfumed the air as the dragons rose in
flashing arcs to take their places in formation.
It was a sight that took the breath away. Tasslehoff knew he would remember it
forever-and maybe even beyond that. Bronze and silver, brass and copper wings
flared in the morning light. The Greater Dragonlances, mounted on the saddles,
glittered in the sun. The knights' armor shone brilliantly. The Kingfisher
flag with its golden thread sparkled against the blue sky.
The past few weeks had been glorious. As Flint said, it seemed the tide of war
was finally flowing in their direction.
The Golden General, as Laurana came to be called by her troops, had forged an
army seemingly out of nothing. The Palanthians, caught up in the excitement,
rallied to her cause. She won the respect of the Knights of Solamnia with her
bold ideas and firm, decisive actions. Laurana's ground forces surged out of
Palanthas, flowing across the plain, pressing the unorganized armies of the
Dragon Highlord, known as the Dark Lady, into panic-stricken Flight.
Now, with victory after victory behind them and the dragonarmies fleeing
before them, the men considered the war as good as won.
But Laurana knew better. They had yet to fight the dragons of the Highlord.
Where these were and why they had not fought before was something Laurana and
her officers couldn't, figure out. Day after day, she held the knights and
their mounts in readiness, prepared to take to the air. And now that day had
come. The dragons had been sighted-flights of blues and reds reportedly
heading westward to stop the insolent general and her rag-tag army.
In a shimmering chain of silver and bronze, the Dragons of Whitestone, as they
were called, soared across the Solamnic Plain. Although all the dragon-mounted
knights had been trained in flight as much as time allowed (with the exception
of the dwarf who steadfastly refused), this world of wispy, low-hanging clouds
and rushing air was still new and foreign to them.
Their banners whipped about wildly. The foot soldiers beneath them seemed no
more than bugs crawling across the grasslands. To some of the knights, flying
was an exhilarating experience. To others, it was a test of every bit of
courage they possessed.
But always before them, leading them in spirit and by example, flew Laurana
upon the great silver dragon her brother had ridden from the Dragon Isles. The
sunlight itself was not more golden than the hair that streamed out from
beneath her helm. She had become a symbol to them like the dragonlance itself-
slender and delicate, fair and deadly. They would have followed her to the
Gates of the Abyss itself.
Tasslehoff, peering over Flint's shoulder, could see Laurana ahead of them.
She rode at the head of the line, sometimes looking back to make certain
everyone was keeping up, sometimes bending down to consult with her silver
mount. She seemed to have things well under control, so Tas decided he could
relax and enjoy the ride. It was truly one of the most wondrous experiences of
his life. Tears streaked his windblown face as he stared down in absolute joy.
The map-loving kender had found the perfect map.
Below him was spread-in tiny, perfect detail-rivers and trees, hills and
valleys, towns and farms. More than anything in the world, Tas wished he could
capture the sight and keep it forever.
Why not? he wondered suddenly. Clinging to the saddle with his knees and
thighs, the kender let go of Flint and began rummaging around in his pouches.
Dragging out a sheet of parchment, he rested it firmly against the dwarf's
back and began to draw on it with a piece of charcoal.
"Quit wiggling!" he shouted at Flint, who was still trying to grab the reins.
"What're you doing, you doorknob?" the dwarf yelled, pawing frantically at Tas
behind his back like an itch he couldn't scratch.
"I'm making a map!" Tas yelled in ecstasy. "The perfect map! I'll be famous.
Look! There are our own troops, like little ants. And there's Vingaard Keep!
Stop moving! You made me mess up."
Groaning, Flint gave up trying to either grasp the reins or brush away the
kender. He decided he better concentrate on keeping a firm grip on both the
dragon and his breakfast. He had made the mistake of looking down. Now he
stared straight ahead, shivering, his body rigid. The hair from the mane of a
griffon that decorated his helm whipped about his face wildly in the rushing
wind. Birds wheeled in the skies beneath him. Flint decided then and there
that dragons were going on his list with boats and horses as Things to Avoid
at All Costs.
"Oh!" Tas gasped in excitement. "There are the dragonarmies! It's a battle!
And I can see the whole thing!" The kender leaned over in the saddle, peering
down. Now and again, through the rushing eddies of air, he thought he could
hear the clash of armor and cries and shouts. "Say, could we fly a bit closer?
I-whoops! Oh, no! My map!"
Khirsah had made a sudden, swooping dive. The force ripped the parchment from
Tas's hands. Forlornly he watched it flutter away from him like a leaf. But he
hadn't time to feel sad, for suddenly he felt Flint's body go even more rigid
than before.
"What? What is it?" Tas yelled.
Flint was shouting something and pointing. Tas tried desperately to see and
hear, but at that moment they flew into a low-hanging cloud and the kender
couldn't see his nose in front of his face, as the gully dwarves said.
Then Khirsah emerged from the cloudbank and Tas saw.
"Oh my!" said the kender in awe. Below them, bearing down on the small
ant-like troops of men, flew line after line of dragons. Their red and blue
leathery wings spread like evil banners as they dove down upon the helpless
armies of the Golden General.
Tasslehoff could see the solid lines of men waver and break as the terrible
dragonfear swept over them. But there was nowhere to run, nowhere to hide on
the broad grasslands. This is why the dragons had waited, Tas realized, sick
with the thought of the fire and lightning breath exploding among the
unprotected troops.
"We've got to stop them-oof!"
Khirsah wheeled so suddenly that Tas nearly swallowed his tongue. The sky
flipped over on its side and for an instant the kender had the most
interesting sensation of falling up. More by instinct than conscious thought,
Tas grabbed hold of Flint's belt, remembering suddenly that he was supposed to
have strapped himself in as Flint had done. Well, he would do so next time.
If there was a next time. The wind roared around him, the ground spun below
him as the dragon spiraled downward. Kenders were fond of new experiences-and
this was certainly one of the most exciting-but Tas did wish the ground wasn't
rushing up to meet them quite so fast!
"I didn't mean we had to stop them right now!" Tas shouted to Flint. Glancing
up-or was it down?-he could see the other dragons far above them, no, below
them. Things were getting all muddled. Now the dragons were behind them! They
were out here in front! Alone! What was Flint doing?
"Not so fast! Slow this thing down!" he yelled at Flint. "You've gotten ahead
of everybody! Even Laurana!"

The dwarf would have liked nothing better than to slow the dragon down. That
last swoop had tossed the reins within his reach and now he was tugging with
all his might, shouting "Whoa, beast, whoa!" which he dimly remembered was
supposed to work with horses. But it wasn't working with the dragon.
It was no comfort to the terrified dwarf to notice that he wasn't the only one
having trouble managing the dragons. Behind him, the delicate line of bronze
and silver broke as if by some silent signal, as the dragons veered off into
small groups-flights-of twos and threes.
Frantically the knights jerked on the reins, endeavoring to pull the dragons
back into straight and orderly cavalry rows. But the dragons knew better-the
sky was their domain. Fighting in the air was far different from fighting on
the ground. They would show these horse-riders how to fight on dragon-back.
Spinning gracefully, Khirsah dove into another cloud, and Tas instantly lost
all sense of up or down as the thick fog enveloped him. Then the sunlit sky
exploded before his eyes as the dragon burst out. Now he knew which way was up
and which was down. Down was, in fact, getting uncomfortably close!
Then Flint roared. Startled, Tas looked up and saw that they were heading
straight into a flight of blue dragons who-intent upon pursuing a group of
panic-stricken foot soldiers-hadn't seen them yet.
"The lance! The lance!" Tas shouted.
Flint grappled with the lance, but he didn't have time to adjust it or set it
properly against his shoulder. Not that it mattered. The blue dragons still
hadn't seen them. Gliding out of the cloud, Khirsah fell in behind them. Then,
like a bronze flame, the young dragon flashed over the group of blues, aiming
for their leader-a big blue dragon with a blue-helmed rider. Diving swiftly
and silently, Khirsah struck the lead dragon with all four murderously sharp
talons.
The force of the impact threw Flint forward in his harness. Tas landed on top
of him, flattening the dwarf. Frantically, Flint struggled to sit up, but Tas
had one arm wrapped around him tightly. Beating the dwarf on the helm with the
other, Tas was shouting encouragement to the dragon.
"That was great! Hit him again!" shrieked the kender, wild with excitement,
pounding Flint on the head.
Swearing loudly in dwarven, Flint flung Tas off him. At that moment, Khirsah
soared upwards, darting into another cloud before the flight of blues could
react to his attack.
Khirsah waited for an instant, perhaps to give his shaken riders time to pull
themselves together. Flint sat up and Tas clasped his arms around the dwarf
tightly. He thought Flint looked strange, sort of gray-colored and oddly
preoccupied. But then this certainly wasn't a normal experience, Tas reminded
himself. Before he could ask Flint if he felt all right, Khirsah dove out of
the cloud once more.
Tas could see the blue dragons below them. The lead dragon had pulled up in
mid-air, hovering on his great wings. The blue was shaken and wounded
slightly; there was blood on the rear flanks where Khirsah's sharp talons had
punctured the dragon's tough, scaly hide. The dragon and his blue-helmed rider
were both scanning the skies, searching for their attacker. Suddenly the rider
pointed.
Risking a quick glance behind him, Tas caught his breath. The sight was
magnificent. Bronze and silver flashed in the sun as the Whitestone Dragons
broke out of the cloud cover and descended screaming upon the flight of blues.
Instantly the flight broke as the blues fought to gain altitude and keep their
pursuers from attacking them from behind. Here and there battles broke out.
Lightning cracked and flared, nearly blinding the kender, as a great bronze
dragon to his right screamed in pain and fell from the air, its head blackened
and burning. Tas saw its rider helplessly grasping the reins, his mouth opened
in a scream the kender could see but not hear as dragon and rider plunged to
the ground below.
Tas stared at the ground rushing closer and closer and wondered in a dreamlike
haze what it would be like to smash into the grass. But he didn't have time to
wonder long, because suddenly Khirsah let out a roar.
The blue leader spotted Khirsah and heard his ringing challenge. Ignoring the
other dragons fighting in the skies around him, the blue leader and his rider
flew up to continue their duel with the bronze.
"Now it is your turn, dwarf! Set the lance!" Khirsah yelled. Lifting his great
wings, the bronze soared up and up, gaining altitude for maneuvering and also
giving the dwarf time to prepare.
"I'll hold the reins!" Tas shouted.
But the kender couldn't tell if Flint heard him or not. The dwarf's face was
rigid and he was moving slowly and mechanically. Wild with impatience, Tas
could do nothing but hang onto the reins and watch while Flint fumbled with
gray fingers until he finally managed to fix the hilt of the lance beneath his
shoulder and brace it as he had been taught. Then he just stared straight
ahead, his face empty of all expression.
Khirsah continued rising, then leveled off, and Tas looked around, wondering
where their enemies were. He had completely lost sight of the blue and its
rider. Then Khirsah suddenly leaped upwards and Tas gasped. There was their
enemy-right ahead of them!
He saw the blue open his hideous fanged mouth. Remembering the lightning, Tas
ducked behind the shield. Then he saw that Flint was still sitting
straight-backed, staring grimly out over the shield at the approaching dragon!
Reaching around Flint's waist, Tas grabbed hold of the dwarf's beard and
yanked his head downward, behind the shield.
Lightning flared and crackled around them. The instant booming thunder nearly
knocked both kender and dwarf senseless. Khirsah roared in pain but held true
upon his course.
The dragons struck, head-on, the dragonlance speared its victim.
For an instant all Tas could see were blurs of blue and red. The world spun
round and round. Once a dragon's hideous, fiery eyes stared at him balefully.
Claws flashed. Khirsah shrieked, the blue screamed. Wings beat upon the air.
The ground spiraled round and round as the struggling dragons fell.
Why doesn't Fireflash let go? Tas thought frantically. Then he could see-
We're locked together! Tasslehoff realized numbly.
The dragonlance had missed its mark. Striking the wingbone joint of the blue
dragon, the lance had bent into his shoulder and was now lodged tight.
Desperately the blue fought to free himself, but Khirsah, now filled with
battle rage, lashed out at the blue with his sharp fangs and ripping taloned
front feet.
Intent upon their own battle, both dragons had completely forgotten their
riders. Tas had forgotten the other rider, too, until-glancing up
helplessly-he saw the blue helmed dragon officer clinging precariously to his
saddle only a few feet away.
Then sky and ground became a blur once more as the dragons whirled and fought.
Tas watched in a haze as the blue helm of the officer fell from his head, the
officer's blonde hair whipped in the wind. His eyes were cold and bright and
not the least afraid. He stared straight into Tasslehoff's eyes.
He looks familiar, thought Tas with an odd sort of detachment, as if this were
happening to some other kender while he watched. Where could I have seen him
before? Thoughts of Sturm came to his mind.
The dragon officer freed himself from his harness and stood up in the
stirrups. One arm-his right arm-hung limply at his side, but his other hand
was reaching forward-
Everything became very clear to Tas suddenly. He knew exactly what the officer
intended to do. It was as if the man spoke to him, telling him his plans.
"Flint!" cried Tas frantically. "Release the lance! Release it!"
But the dwarf held onto the lance fast, that strange far-away look on his
face. The dragons fought and clawed and bit in mid-air; the blue twisting,
trying to free himself from the lance as well as fend off its attacker. Tas
saw the blue's rider shout something, and the blue broke off its attack for an
instant, holding himself steady in the air.
With remarkable agility, the officer leaped from one dragon to the other.
Grasping Khirsah around the neck with his good arm, the dragon officer pulled
himself upright, his strong legs and thighs clamping themselves firmly onto
the struggling dragon's neck.
Khirsah paid the human no attention. His thoughts were fixed totally on his
enemy.
The officer cast one quick glance back at the kender and the dwarf behind him
and saw that neither was likely to be a threat-strapped, as they must be-into
place. Coolly the officer drew his longsword and, leaning down, began to slash
at the bronze dragon's harness straps where they crossed across the beast's
chest, ahead of the great wings.
"Flint!" pleaded Tas. "Release the lance! Look!" The kender shook the dwarf.
"If that officer cuts through the harness, our saddle will fall off! The lance
will fall off! We'll fall off!"
Flint turned his head slowly, suddenly understanding. Still moving with
agonizing slowness, his shaking hand fumbled at the mechanism that would
release the lance and free the dragons from their deadly embrace. But would it
be in time?
Tas saw the longsword flash in the air. He saw one of the harness straps sag
and flutter free. There wasn't time to think or plan. While Flint grappled
with the release, Tas-rising up precariously-wrapped the reins around his
waist. Then, hanging onto the edge of the saddle, the kender crawled around
the dwarf until he was in front of him. Here he lay down flat along the
dragon's neck and, wrapping his legs around the dragon's spiny mane, he wormed
his way forward and came up silently behind the officer.
The man wasn't paying any attention to the riders behind him, assuming both
were safely locked in their harnesses. Intent upon his work-the harness was
nearly free-he never knew what hit him.
Rising up, Tasslehoff leaped onto the officer's back. Startled, scrabbling
wildly to keep himself balanced, the officer let his sword fall as he clung
desperately to the dragon's neck.
Snarling in rage, the officer tried to see what had struck him when suddenly
everything went dark! Small arms wrapped themselves around his head, blinding
him. Frantically the officer let go of his hold on the dragon in an effort to
free himself of what seemed to his enraged mind to be a creature with six legs
and arms-all of them dinging to him with a buglike tenacity. But he felt
himself start to slide off the dragon and was forced to grab hold of the mane.
"Flint! Release the lance! Flint..." Tas didn't even know what he was saying
anymore. The ground was rushing up to meet him as the weakened dragons toppled
from the skies. He couldn't think. White flashes of light burst in his head as
he clung with all his strength to the officer, who was still struggling
beneath him.
Then a great metallic bang sounded.
The lance released. The dragons were freed.
Spreading his wings, Khirsah pulled out of his spinning dive and leveled off.
The sky and ground resumed their proper, correct positions. Tears streamed
down Tas's cheeks. He hadn't been frightened, he told himself, sobbing. But
nothing had ever looked so beautiful as that blue, blue sky-back up where it
should be!
"Are you all right, Fireflash?" Tas yelled.
The bronze nodded wearily.
"I've got a prisoner," Tas called, suddenly realizing that fact himself.
Slowly he let go of the man, who shook his head dizzily, half-choked.
"I guess you're not going anywhere," Tas muttered. Sliding off the man's back,
the kender crawled down the mane toward the dragon's shoulders. Tas saw the
officer look up into the skies, and clench his fist in bitter rage as he
watched his dragons being slowly driven from the skies by Laurana and her
forces. In particular, the officer's gaze fixed on Laurana-and suddenly Tas
knew where he had seen him before.
The kender caught his breath. "You better take us down to the ground,
Fireflash!" he cried, his hands shaking. "Hurry!"
The dragon arched his head to look around at his riders, and Tas saw that one
eye was swollen shut. There were scorch and burn marks all along one side of
the bronze head, and blood dripped from a torn nostril. Tas glanced around for
the blue. He was nowhere to be seen.
Looking back at the officer, Tas suddenly felt wonderful. It occurred to him
what he had done.
"Hey!" he yelled in elation, turning around to Flint. "We did it! We fought a
dragon and I captured a prisoner! Single-handed!"
Flint nodded slowly. Turning back, Tas watched as the ground rose up to meet
him, and the kender thought it had never looked so ... so wonderfully
groundlike before!
Khirsah landed. The foot soldiers gathered around them, yelling and cheering.
Someone led the officer away-Tas was not sorry to see him go; noticing that
the officer gave him a sharp, penetrating look before he was led off. But then
the kender forgot him as he glanced up at Flint.
The dwarf was slumped over the saddle, his face old and tired-looking, his
lips blue.
"What's the matter?"
"Nothing."
"But you're holding your chest. Are you wounded?"
"No, I'm not."
"Then why are you holding your chest?"
Flint scowled. "I suppose I'll have no peace until I answer you. Well, if you
must know, it's that confounded lance! And whoever designed this stupid vest
was a bigger ninny that you are! The shaft of the lance drove right into my
collarbone. I'll be black and blue for a week. And as for your prisoner, it's
a wonder you weren't both killed, you rattlebrain! Captured, humpf! More like
an accident, if you ask me. And I'll tell you something else! I'm never
getting on another one of those great beasts as long as I live!"
Flint shut his lips with an angry snap, glaring at the kender so fiercely that
Tas turned around and walked quickly away, knowing that when Flint was in that
kind of mood, it was best to leave him alone to cool off. He'd feel better
after lunch.
It wasn't until that night, when Tasslehoff was curled up next to Khirsah,
resting comfortably against the dragon's great bronze flank, that he
remembered Flint had been clutching the left side of his chest.
The lance had been on the old dwarf's right.

10
Spring Dawning.

The day dawned, pink and golden light spreading across the land, the citizens
of Kalaman woke to the sound of bells. Leaping out of bed, children invaded
parental bedrooms, demanding that mother and father arise so that this special
day could get underway. Though some grumbled and feigned to pull the blankets
over their heads, most parents laughingly climbed out of bed, not less eager
than their children.
Today was a memorable day in the history of Kalaman, Not only was it the
annual Spring Dawning festival, it was also a victory celebration for the
armies of the Knights of Solamnia. Camped on the plains outside the walled
city, the army-led by its now-legendary general, an elf woman-would be making
a triumphal entry into the city at noon.
As the sun peeped over the walls, the sky above Kalaman was filled with the
smoke of cooking fires, and soon smells of sizzling ham and warm muffins,
frying bacon and exotic coffees rousted even the sleepiest from warm beds.
They would have been roused soon enough anyway, for almost immediately the
streets were filled with children. All discipline was relaxed on the occasion
of Spring Dawning. After a long winter of being cooped up indoors, children
were allowed to "run wild" for a day. By nightfall there would be bruised
heads, skinned knees, and stomachaches from too many sweets. But all would
remember it as a glorious day.
By mid-morning the festival was in full swing. Vendors hawked their wares in
gaily-colored booths. The gullible lost their money on games of chance.
Dancing bears capered in the streets, and illusionists drew gasps of amazement
from young and old.
Then at noon the bells rang out again. The streets cleared. People lined the
sidewalks. The city gates were flung open, and the Knights of Solamnia
prepared to enter Kalaman.
An expectant hush came over the crowd. Peering ahead eagerly, they jostled to
get a good view of the Knights, particularly the elfwoman of whom they had
heard so many stories. She rode in first, alone, mounted on a pure white
horse. The crowd-prepared to cheer-found themselves unable to speak, so awed
were they by the woman's beauty and majesty. Dressed in flashing silver armor
decorated with beaten gold work, Laurana guided her steed through the city
gates and into the streets. A delegation of children had been carefully
rehearsed to strew flowers in Laurana's path, but so overcome were the
children at the sight of the lovely woman in the glittering armor that they
clutched their flowers and never threw a single one.
Behind the golden-haired elfmaiden rode two who caused not a few in the crowd
to point in wonder-a kender and a dwarf, mounted together on a shaggy pony
with a back as broad as a barrel. The kender seemed to be having a wonderful
time, yelling and waving to the crowds. But the dwarf, sitting behind him,
grasping him around the waist with a deathlike grip, was sneezing so badly he
seemed likely to sneeze himself right off the back of the animal.
Following the dwarf and kender rode an elflord, so like the elfmaiden that no
one in the crowd needed his neighbor to tell him they were brother and sister.
Beside the elflord rode another elfmaid with strange silver hair and deep blue
eyes, who seemed shy and nervous among the crowd. Then came the Knights of
Solamnia, perhaps seventy-five strong, resplendent in gleaming armor. The
crowd began to cheer, waving flags in the air.
A few of the Knights exchanged grim glances at this, all of them thinking that
if they had ridden into Kalaman only a month before, they would have received
a far different reception. But now they were heroes. Three hundred years of
hatred and bitterness and unjust accusations were wiped from the minds of the
public as they cheered those who had saved them from the terrors of the
dragonarmies.
Marching after the Knights were several thousand footmen. And then, to the
great delight of the crowd, the sky above the city filled with dragons-not the
dreaded flights of red and blue the people had feared all winter. Instead, the
sun flashed off wings of silver and bronze and gold as the awesome creatures
circled and dove and pivoted in their well-organized flights. Knights sat in
the dragonsaddles, the barbed blades of the dragonlances sparkling in the
morning light.
After the parade, the citizens gathered to hear their Lord speak a few words
in honor of the heroes. Laurana blushed to hear it told that she alone was
responsible for the discovery of the dragonlances, the return of the good
dragons, and the tremendous victories of the armies. Stammering, she tried to
deny this, gesturing to her brother and to the Knights. But the yells and
cheers of the crowd drowned her out. Helplessly Laurana looked at Lord
Michael, Grand Master Gunthar Uth Wistan's representative, who had lately
arrived from Sancrist. Michael only grinned.
"Let them have their hero," he said to her above the shouting. "Or heroine, I
should say. They deserve it. All winter they lived in fear, waiting for the
day the dragons would appear in the skies. Now they have a beautiful heroine
who rides out of children's tales to save them."
"But it's not true!" Laurana protested, edging nearer Michael to make herself
heard. Her arms were filled with winter roses. Their fragrance was cloying,
but she dared not offend anyone by setting them aside. "I didn't ride out of a
children's story. I rode out of fire and darkness and blood. Putting me in
command was a political stratagem of Lord Gunthar's-we both know that. And if
my brother and Silvara hadn't risked their lives to bring the good dragons,
we'd be parading down these streets in chains behind the Dark Lady."
"Bah! This is good for them. Good for us, too," Michael added, glancing at
Laurana out of the corner of his eye as he waved to the crowd. "A few weeks
ago we couldn't have begged the Lord to give us a crust of stale bread. Now-
because of the Golden General-he's agreed to garrison the army in the town,
provide us with supplies, horses, anything we want. Young men are flocking to
join up. Our ranks will be swelled by a thousand or more before we leave for
Dargaard. And you've lifted the morale of our own troops. You saw the Knights
as they were in the High Clerist's Tower-look at them now."
Yes, thought Laurana bitterly. I saw them. Split by dissension among their own
ranks, fallen into dishonor, bickering and plotting among themselves. It took
the death of a fine and noble man to bring them to their senses. Laurana
closed her eyes. The noise, the smell of the roses-which always brought Sturm
to her mind-the exhaustion of battle, the heat of the noonday sun, all crashed
over her in a stifling wave. She grew dizzy and feared she might faint. The
thought was mildly amusing. How would that look-for the Golden General to keel
over like a wilted flower?
Then she felt a strong arm around her.
"Steady, Laurana," said Gilthanas, supporting her. Silvara was beside her,
taking the roses from her arms. Sighing, Laurana opened her eyes and smiled
weakly at the Lord, who was just concluding his second speech of the morning
to thunderous applause.
I'm trapped, Laurana realized. She would have to sit here the rest of the
afternoon, smiling and waving and enduring speech after speech praising her
heroism when all she wanted was to lie down in some dark, cool place and
sleep. And it was all a lie, all a sham. If only they knew the truth. What if
she stood up and told them she was so frightened during the battles that she
could remember details only in her nightmares? Told them that she was nothing
but a gamepiece for the Knights? Told them that she was here only because she
had run away from her home-a spoiled little girl chasing after a half-elven
man who didn't love her. What would they say?
"And now"-the Lord of Kalaman's voice rang out above the noise of the
crowd-"it is my honor and my very great privilege to present to you the woman
who has turned the tide of this war, the woman who has sent the dragonarmies
fleeing for their lives over the plains, the woman who has driven the evil
dragons from the sky, the woman whose armies captured the evil Bakaris,
commander of the Dragon Highlord's armies, the woman whose name is even now
being coupled with the great Huma's as the most valiant warrior on Krynn.
Within a week, she will be riding to Dargaard Keep to demand the surrender of
the Dragon Highlord known as the Dark Lady..."
The Lord's voice was drowned in cheering. He paused dramatically,
then-reaching behind him-caught hold of Laurana and nearly dragged her
forward. "Lauralanthalasa of the Royal House of Qualinesti!"
The noise was deafening. It reverberated off the tall stone buildings. Laurana
looked out over the sea of open mouths and wildly waving flags. They don't
want to hear about my fear, she realized wearily. They've fears enough of
their own. They don't want to hear about darkness and death. They want
children's tales about love and rebirth and silver dragons.
Don't we all.
With a sigh, Laurana turned to Silvara. Taking the roses back, she held them
up into the air, waving to the jubilant crowd. Then she began her speech.
Tasslehoff Burrfoot was having a splendid time. It had been an easy task to
evade Flint's watchful gaze and slip off the platform where he had been told
to stand with the rest of the dignitaries. Melting into the crowd, he was now
free to explore this interesting city again. Long ago, he'd come to Kalaman
with his parents and he cherished fond memories of the open-air bazaar, the
seaport where the white-winged ships lay at anchor, and a hundred other
wonders.
Idly he wandered among the festive crowd, his keen eyes seeing everything, his
hands busy stuffing objects into his pouches. Really, Tas thought, the people
of Kalaman were extremely careless! Purses had the most uncanny habit of
falling from people's belts into Tas's hands. The streets might be paved with
jewels the way he discovered rings and other fascinating trinkets.
Then the kender was transported into realms of delight when he came across a
cartographer's stall. And, as fortune would have it, the cartographer had gone
to watch the parade. The stall was locked and shuttered, with a large "CLOSED"
sign hanging on a hook.
"What a pity," thought Tas. "But I'm sure he wouldn't mind if I just looked at
his maps." Reaching out, he gave the lock an expert twitch, then smiled
happily. A few more "twitches" and it would open easily. "He mustn't really
mean for people to keep out if he puts on such a simple-minded lock. I'll just
pop in and copy a few of his maps to update my collection."
Suddenly Tas felt a hand on his shoulder. Irritated that someone should bother
him at a time like this, the kender glanced around to see a strange figure
that seemed vaguely familiar. It was dressed in heavy cloaks and robes, though
the spring day was warming rapidly. Even its hands were wrapped in cloth, like
bandages. Bother-a cleric, thought the kender, annoyed and preoccupied.
"I beg your pardon," said Tas to the cleric who had hold of him, "I don't mean
to be rude, but I was just-"
"Burrfoot?" interrupted the cleric in a cold, lisping voice. 'The kender who
rides with the Golden General?"
"Why, yes," Tas said, flattered that someone had recognized him. "That's me.
I've ridden with Laura-the, err-Golden General-for a long time now. Let's see,
I think it was in the late fall. Yes, we met her in Qualinesti right after we
escaped from the hobgoblin's prison wagons which was a short time after we
killed a black dragon in Xak Tsaroth. That's the most wonderful story-" Tas
forgot about the maps. "You see we were in this old, old city that had fallen
into a cavern and it was filled with gully dwarves. We met one named Bupu, who
had been charmed by Raistlin-"
"Shut up!" The cleric's wrapped hand went from Tasslehoff's shoulder to the
collar of his shirt. Gripping it expertly, the cleric twisted it with a sudden
jerk of its hand and lifted the kender off his feet. Although kender are
generally immune to the emotion of fear, Tas found that being unable to
breathe was an extremely uncomfortable sensation.
"Listen to me carefully," the cleric hissed, shaking the frantically
struggling kender as a wolf shakes a bird to break its neck.
"That's right. Hold still and it hurts less. I've got a message for the Golden
General." Its voice was soft and lethal. "It's here-" Tas felt a rough hand
stuffing something into his vest pocket. "See that you deliver it some time
tonight when she's alone. Understand?"
Choked by the cleric's hand, Tas couldn't speak or even nod, but he blinked
his eyes twice. The cloaked head nodded, dropped the kender back to the
ground, and walked rapidly off down the street.
Gasping for breath, the shaken kender stared at the figure as it walked away,
its long robes fluttering in the wind. Tas absently patted the scroll that had
been thrust into his pocket. The sound of that voice brought back very
unpleasant memories: the ambush on the road from Solace, heavily cloaked
figures like clerics... only they weren't clerics! Tas shuddered. A draconian!
Here! In Kalaman!
Shaking his head, Tas turned back to the cartographer's stall. But the
pleasure had gone out of the day. He couldn't even feel excited when the lock
fell open into his small hand.
"Hey, you!" shrieked a voice. "Kender! Get away from there!"
A man was running up to him, puffing and red in the face. Probably the
cartographer himself.
"You shouldn't have run," Tas said listlessly. "You needn't bother opening up
for me."
"Opening!" The man's jaw sagged. "Why, you little thief! I got here just in
time-"
"Thanks all the same." Tas dropped the lock into the man's hand and walked
off, absentmindedly evading the enraged cartographer's effort to grab him.
"I'll be going now. I'm not feeling very well. Oh, by the way, did you know
that lock's broken? Worthless. You should be more careful. You never know who
could sneak in. No, don't thank me. I haven't got time. Goodbye."
Tasslehoff wandered off. Cries of "Thief! Thief!" rang out behind him. A town
guardsman appeared, forcing Tas to duck into a butcher's shop to avoid being
run over. Shaking his head over the corruption of the world, the kender
glanced about, hoping for a glimpse of the culprit. Seeing no one interesting
in sight, he kept going, and suddenly wondered irritably how Flint had managed
to lose him again.

Laurana shut the door, turned the key in the lock, and leaned thankfully
against it, reveling in the peace and quiet and welcome solitude of her room.
Tossing the key on a table, she walked wearily over to her bed, not even
bothering to light a candle. The rays of the silver moon streamed in through
the leaded glass panes of the long, narrow window.
Downstairs, in the lower rooms of the castle, she could still hear the sounds
of merrymaking she had just left. It was nearly midnight. She had been trying
for two hours to escape. It finally took Lord Michael's intercession on her
behalf- pleading her exhaustion from the battles-that induced the lords and
ladies of the city of Kalaman to part with her.
Her head ached from the stuffy atmosphere, the smell of strong perfume, and
too much wine. She shouldn't have drunk so much, she knew. She had a weak head
for wine and, anyway, she didn't really like it. But the pain in her head was
easier to bear than the pain in her heart.
Throwing herself down on the bed, she thought hazily about getting up and
closing the shutters, but the moon's light was comforting. Laurana detested
lying in the darkness. Things lurked in the shadows, ready to spring out at
her. I should get undressed, she thought, I'll wrinkle this dress... and it's
borrowed...
There was a knock at her door.
Laurana woke with a start, trembling. Then she remembered where she was.
Sighing, she lay very still, closing her eyes again. Surely they'd realize she
was asleep and go away.
There was another knock, more insistent than the first.
"Laurana..."
"Tell me in the morning, Tas," Laurana said, trying to keep the irritation
from her voice.
"It's important, Laurana," Tas called. "Flint's with me."
Laurana heard a scuffling sound outside the door.
"Come on, tell her-"
"I will not! This was your doing!"
"But he said it was important and I-"
"All right, I'm coming!" Laurana sighed. Stumbling out of bed, she fumbled for
the key on the table, unlocked the door, and flung it open.
"Hi, Laurana!" Tas said brightly, walking inside. "Wasn't that a wonderful
party? I've never eaten roast peacock before-"
"What is it, Tas?" Laurana sighed, shutting the door behind them.
Seeing her pale, drawn face, Flint poked the kender in the back. Giving the
dwarf a reproachful look, Tas reached into the pocket of his fleecy vest and
drew forth a rolled scroll of parchment, tied with a blue ribbon.
"A-a cleric-sort of-said to give this to you, Laurana," Tas said.
"Is that all?" Laurana asked impatiently, snatching the scroll from the
kender's hand. "It's probably a marriage proposal. I've had twenty in the last
week. Not to mention proposals of a more unique nature."
"Oh, no," said Tas, suddenly serious. "It's not anything like that, Laurana.
It's from-" He stopped.
"How do you know who it's from?" Laurana fixed the kender with a piercing
gaze.
"I-uh-guess I-sort of-glanced at it-" Tas admitted. Then he brightened. "But
it was only because I didn't want to bother you with anything that wasn't
important."
Flint snorted.
"Thank you," Laurana said. Unrolling the scroll, she walked over to stand by
the window where the moonlight was bright enough to read by.
"We'll leave you alone," Flint said gruffly, herding the protesting kender
toward the door.
"No! Wait!" Laurana choked. Flint turned, staring at her in alarm.
"Are you all right?" he said, hurrying over to her as she sank down into a
nearby chair. "Tas-get Silvara!"
"No, no. Don't bring anyone. I'm... all right. Do you know what this says?"
she asked in a whisper.
"I tried to tell him," Tasslehoff said in an injured voice, "but he wouldn't
let me."
Her hand shaking, Laurana handed the scroll to Flint.
The dwarf opened it and read aloud.
"Tanis Half-Elven received a wound in the battle of Vingaard Keep. Although at
first he believed it was slight, it has worsened so that he is past even the
help of the dark clerics. I ordered that he be brought to Dargaard Keep, where
I could care for him. Tanis knows the gravity of his injury. He asks that he
be allowed to be with you when he dies, that he may explain matters to you and
so rest with an easy spirit.
"I make you this offer. You have as your captive my officer, Bakaris, who was
captured near Vingaard Keep. I will exchange Tanis Half-Elven for Bakaris. The
exchange will take place at dawn tomorrow in a grove of trees beyond the city
walls. Bring Bakaris with you. If you are mistrustful, you may also bring
Tanis's friends, Flint Fireforge and Tasslehoff Burr-foot. But no one else!
The bearer of this note waits outside the city gate. Meet him tomorrow at
sunrise. If he deems all is well, he will escort you to the half-elf. If not,
you will never see Tanis alive.
"I do this only because we are two women who understand each other.
"Kitiara"
There was an uneasy silence, then, "Humpf," Flint snorted, and rolled up the
scroll.
"How can you be so calm!" Laurana gasped, snatching the scroll from the
dwarf's hand. "And you"-her gaze switched angrily to Tasslehoff-"why didn't
you tell me before now? How long have you known? You read he was dying, and
you're so-so-"
Laurana put her head in her hands.
Tas stared at her, his mouth open. "Laurana," he said after a moment, "surely
you don't think Tanis-"
Laurana's head snapped up. Her dark, stricken eyes went to Flint, then to Tas.
"You don't believe this message is real do you?" she asked incredulously.
"Of course not!" Flint said.
"No," scoffed Tas. "It's a trick! A draconian gave it to me! Besides Kitiara's
a Dragon Highlord now. What would Tanis be doing with her-"
Laurana turned her face away abruptly. Tasslehoff stopped and glanced at
Flint, whose own face suddenly seemed to age.
"So that's it," the dwarf said softly. "We saw you talking to Kitiara on the
wall of the High Clerist's Tower. You were discussing more than Sturm's death,
weren't you?"
Laurana nodded, wordlessly, staring at her hands in her lap.
"I never told you," she murmured in a voice barely audible, "I couldn't... I
kept hoping... Kitiara said . . . said she'd left Tanis in-some place called
Flotsam ... to look after things while she was gone."
"Liar!" said Tas promptly.
"No." Laurana shook her head. "When she says we are two women who understand
each other, she's right. She wasn't lying. She was telling the truth, I know.
And at the Tower she mentioned the dream." Laurana lifted her head. "Do you
remember the dream?"
Flint nodded uncomfortably. Tasslehoff shuffled his feet.
"Only Tanis could have told her about the dream we all shared," Laurana
continued, swallowing a choking feeling in her throat. "I saw him with her in
the dream, just as I saw Sturm's death. The dream's coming true . . ."
"Now wait a minute," Flint said gruffly, grabbing hold of reality as a
drowning man grabs a piece of wood. "You said yourself you saw your own death
in the dream, right after Sturm's. And you didn't die. And nothing hacked up
Sturm's body, either."
"I haven't died yet, like I did in the dream," Tas said helpfully. "And I've
picked lots of locks! Well, not lots, but a few here and there, and none were
poisoned. Besides, Laurana, Tanis wouldn't-"
Flint shot Tas a warning glance. The kender lapsed into silence. But Laurana
had seen the glance and understood. Her lips tightened.
"Yes, he would. You both know it. He loves her." Laurana was quiet a moment,
then, "I'm going. I'll exchange Bakaris."
Flint heaved a sigh. He had seen this coming. "Laurana-"
"Wait a minute, Flint," she interrupted. "If Tanis received a message saying
you were dying, what would he do?"
"That's not the point," Flint mumbled.
"If he had to go into the Abyss itself, past a thousand dragons, he'd come to
you-"
"Perhaps and perhaps not," said Flint gruffly. "Not if he was leader of an
army. Not if he had responsibilities, people depending on him. He'd know I'd
understand-"
Laurana's face might have been carved of marble, so impassive and pure and
cold was her expression. "I never asked for these responsibilities. I never
wanted them. We can make it look as if Bakaris escaped-"
"Don't do it, Laurana!" Tas begged. "He's the officer who brought back Derek
and Lord Alfred's body at the High Clerist's Tower, the officer you shot in
the arm with the arrow. He hates you, Laurana! I-I saw the way he looked at
you the day we captured him!"
Flint's brows drew together. 'The lords and your brother are still below.
We'll discuss the best way to handle this-"
"I'm not discussing anything," Laurana stated, lifting her chin in the old
imperious gesture the dwarf knew so well. "I'm the general. It's my decision."
"Maybe you should ask someone's advice-"
Laurana regarded the dwarf with bitter amusement. "Whose?" she asked.
"Gilthanas's? What would I say? That Kitiara and I want to exchange lovers?
No, we'll tell no one. What would the knights have done with Bakaris anyway?
Execute him according to knightly ritual. They owe me something for all I've
done. I'll take Bakaris as payment."
"Laurana"- Flint tried desperately to think of some way to penetrate her
frozen mask-"there is a protocol that must be followed in prisoner exchange.
You're right. You are the general, and you must know how important this is!
You were in your father's court long enough-" That was a mistake. The dwarf
knew it as soon as he opened his mouth and he groaned inwardly.
"I am no longer in my father's court!" Laurana flashed. "And to the Abyss with
protocol!'' Rising to her feet, she regarded the Flint coldly, as if he were
someone she had just met. The dwarf was, in fact, strongly reminded of her as
he had seen her in Qualinesti, the evening she had run away from her home to
follow after Tanis in childish infatuation.
"Thank you for bringing this message. I have a great deal to do before
morning. If you have any regard for Tanis, please return to your rooms and say
nothing to anyone."
Tasslehoff cast Flint an alarmed glance. Flushing, the dwarf tried hastily to
undo the damage.
"Now, Laurana," he said gruffly, "don't take my words to heart. If you've made
your decision, I'll support you. I'm just being an old crotchety grandfather,
that's all. I worry about you, even if you are a general. And you should take
me with you-like the note says-"
"Me, too!" cried Tas indignantly.
Flint glared at him, but Laurana didn't notice. Her expression softened.
"Thank you, Flint. You too, Tas," she said wearily. "I'm sorry I snapped at
you. But I really believe I should go alone."
"No," Flint said stubbornly. "I care about Tanis as much as you. If there's
any chance he is dy-" The dwarf choked and wiped his hand across his eyes.
Then he swallowed the lump in his throat. "I want to be with him."
"Me, too," mumbled Tas, subdued.
"Very well." Laurana smiled sadly. "I can't blame you. And I'm sure he'd want
you to be there."
She sounded so certain, so positive she would see Tanis. The dwarf saw it in
her eyes. He made one final effort. "Laurana, what if it's a trap. An ambush-"
Laurana's expression froze again. Her eyes narrowed angrily Flint's protest
was lost in his beard. He glanced at Tas. The kender shook his head.
The old dwarf sighed.

11
The penalty of failure.

"There it is, sir," said the dragon, a huge red monster with glistening black
eyes and a wing span that was like the shadows of night. "Dargaard Keep. Wait,
you can see it clearly in the moonlight . . . when the clouds part."
"I see it," replied a deep voice. The dragon, hearing the dagger-edged anger
in the man's tone, began his descent swiftly, spiraling round and round as he
tested the shifting air currents among the mountains. Nervously eyeing the
keep surrounded by the rocky crags of the jagged mountains, the dragon looked
for a place to make a smooth and easy landing. It would never do to jounce
Lord Ariakas.
At the far northern end of the Dargaard Mountains stood their
destination-Dargaard Keep, as dark and dismal as its legends. Once-when the
world was young-Dargaard Keep had graced the mountain peaks, its rose-colored
walls rising in graceful sweeping beauty up from the rock in the very likeness
of a rose itself. But now, thought Ariakas grimly, the rose has died. The
Highlord was not a poetic man, nor was he much given to flights of fancy. But
the fire-blackened, crumbling castle atop the rock looked so much like a
decayed rose upon a withering bush that the image struck him forcibly. Black
latticework, stretching from broken tower to broken tower, no longer formed
the petals of the rose. Instead, mused Ariakas, it is the web of the insect
whose poison had killed it.
The great red dragon wheeled a final time. The southern wall surrounding the
courtyard had fallen a thousand feet to the base of the cliff during the
Cataclysm, leaving a clear passage to the gates of the keep itself. Breathing
a heartfelt sigh of relief, the red saw smooth tiled pavement beyond, broken
only here and there by rents in the stonework, suitable for a smooth landing.
Even dragons-who feared few things on Krynn-found it healthier to avoid Lord
Ariakas's displeasure.
In the courtyard below, there was a sudden fever of activity, looking like an
anthill disturbed by the approach of a wasp. Draconians shrieked and pointed.
The captain of the night watch came hurrying to the battlements, looking over
the edge into the courtyard. The draconians were right. A flight of red
dragons were indeed landing in the courtyard, one of them bearing an officer,
too, by the armor. The captain watched uneasily as the man leaped from the
dragon saddle before his mount had come to halt. The dragon's wings beat
furiously to avoid striking the officer, sending dust billowing about him in
moonlit clouds as he strode purposefully across the stones of the courtyard
toward the door. His black boots rang on the pavement, sounding like a death
knell.
And-with that thought-the captain gasped, suddenly recognizing the officer.
Turning, nearly stumbling over the draconian in his haste, he cursed the
soldier and ran through the keep in search of Acting Commander, Garibanus.
Lord Ariakas's mailed fist fell upon the wooden door with a thunderous blow
that sent splinters flying. Draconians scrambled to open it, then shrank back
abjectly as the Dragon Highlord stalked inside, accompanied by a blast of cold
wind that extinguished the candles and caused torch flames to waver.
Casting a swift glance from behind the gleaming mask of the dragonhelm as he
entered, Ariakas saw a large circular hallway spanned by a vaulted, domed
ceiling. Two giant curved staircases rose from either side of the entryway,
leading up to a balcony on the second level. As Ariakas looked around,
ignoring the groveling draconians, he saw Garibanus emerge from a doorway near
the top of the stairs, hastily buttoning his trousers and pulling a shirt over
his head. The captain of the watch stood-quaking-next to Garibanus, pointing
down at the Dragon Highlord.
Ariakas guessed in a moment whose company the acting commander had been
enjoying. Apparently he was filling in for the missing Bakaris in more ways
than one!
"So that's where she is!" Lord Ariakas thought in satisfaction. He strode
across the hallway and up the stairs, taking them two at a time. Draconians
scuttled out of his path like rats. The captain of the guard disappeared.
Ariakas was fully halfway up the stairs before Garibanus had collected himself
enough to address him.
"L-Lord Ariakas," he stammered, stuffing his shirt into his pants and hurrying
down the stairs. "This is an-err- unexpected honor."
"Not unexpected, I believe?" Ariakas said smoothly, his voice sounding
strangely metallic coming from the depths of the dragonhelm.
"Well, perhaps not," Garibanus said with a weak laugh.
Ariakas continued climbing, his eyes fixed on a doorway above him. Realizing
the lord's intended destination, Garibanus interposed himself between Ariakas
and the door.
"My lord," he began apologetically, "Kitiara is dressing. She-"
Without a word, without even pausing in his stride. Lord Ariakas swung his
gloved hand. The blow caught Garibanus in the ribcage. There was a whooshing
sound, like a bellows deflating, and the sound of bones cracking, then a wet
soggy splatter as the force of the blow sent the young man's body into the
wall opposite the stairs some ten yards distant. The limp body slid to the
floor below, but Ariakas never noticed. Without a backward glance, he resumed
his climb, his eyes on the door at the top of the stairs.
Lord Ariakas, commander-in-chief of the dragonarmies, reporting directly to
the Dark Queen herself, was a brilliant man, a military genius. Ariakas had
nearly held the rulership of the Ansalon continent in his grasp. Already he
was styling himself "Emperor." His Queen was truly pleased with him, his
rewards from her were many and lavish.
But now he saw his beautiful dream slipping through his fingers like smoke
from autumn fires. He had received reports of his troops fleeing wildly across
the Solamnic plains, falling back from Palanthas, withdrawing from Vingaard
Keep, abandoning plans for the siege of Kalaman. The elves had allied with
human forces in Northern and Southern Ergoth. The mountain dwarves had emerged
from their subterranean home of Thorbardin and, it was reported, allied with
their ancient enemies, the hill dwarves and a group of human refugees in an
attempt to drive the dragonarmies from Abanasinia. Silvanesti had been freed.
A Dragon Highlord had been killed in Ice Wall. And, if rumor was to be
believed, a group of gully dwarves held Pax Tharkas!
Thinking of this as he swept up the stairs, Ariakas worked himself into a
fury. Few survived Lord Ariakas's displeasure. None survived his furies.
Ariakas inherited his position of authority from his father, who had been a
cleric in high standing with the Queen of Darkness. Although only forty,
Ariakas had held his position almost twenty years-his father having met an
untimely death at the hands of his own son. When Ariakas was two, he had
watched his father brutally murder his mother, who had been attempting to flee
with her little son before the child became as perverted with evil as his
father.
Though Ariakas always treated his father with outward shows of respect, he
never forgot his mother's murder. He worked hard and excelled in his studies,
making his father inordinately proud. Many wondered whether that pride was
with the father as he felt the first thrusts of the knife-blade his
nineteen-year-old son plunged into his body in revenge for his mother's
death-and with an eye to the throne of Dragon Highlord.
Certainly it was no great tragedy to the Queen of Darkness, who quickly found
young Ariakas more than made up for the loss of her favorite cleric. The young
man had no clerical talents himself, but his considerable skills as a
magic-user won him the Black Robes and the commendations of the evil wizards
who instructed him. Although he passed the dreadful Tests in the Tower of High
Sorcery, magic was not his love. He practiced it infrequently, and never wore
the Black Robes which marked his standing as a wizard of evil powers.
Ariakas's true passion was war. It was he who had devised the strategy that
had enabled the Dragon Highlords and their armies to subjugate almost all of
the continent of Ansalon. It was he who had insured that they met with almost
no resistance, for it had been Ariakas's brilliant strategy to move swiftly,
striking the divided human, elf, and dwarven races before they had time to
unite, and snap them up piecemeal. By summer, Ariakas's plan called for him to
rule Ansalon unchallenged. Other Dragon Highlords on other continents of Krynn
were looking to him with undisguised envy-and fear. For one continent could
never satisfy Ariakas. Already his eyes were turning westward, across the
Sirrion Sea.
But now-disaster.
Reaching the door of Kitiara's bedchamber, Ariakas found it locked. Coldly he
spoke one word in the language of magic and the heavy wooden door blew apart.
Ariakas strode through the shower of sparks and blue flame that engulfed the
door into Kitiara's chamber, his hand on his sword.
Kit was in bed. At the sight of Ariakas she rose, her hand clutching a silken
dressing gown around her lithe body. Even through his raging fury, Ariakas was
still forced to admire the woman who, of all his commanders, he had come to
rely on most. Though his arrival must have caught her off guard, though she
must know she had forfeited her life by allowing herself to be defeated, she
faced him coolly and calmly. Not a spark of fear lit her brown eyes, not a
murmur escaped her lips.
This only served to enrage Ariakas further, reminding him of his extreme
disappointment in her. Without speaking, he yanked off the dragonhelm and
hurled it across the room where it slammed into an ornately carved wooden
chest, shattering it like glass.
At the sight of Ariakas's face, Kitiara momentarily lost control and shrank
back in her bed, her hand nervously clasping the ribbons of her gown.
Few there were who could look up on Ariakas's face without blenching. It was a
face devoid of any human emotion. Even his anger showed only in the twitching
of a muscle along his jaw. Long black hair swept down around his pallid
features. A day's growth of beard appeared blue on his smooth-shaven skin. His
eyes were black and cold as an ice-bound lake.
Ariakas reached the side of the bed in a bound. Ripping down the curtains that
hung around it, he reached out and grabbed hold of Kitiara's short, curly
hair. Dragging her from her bed, he hurled her to the stone floor.
Kitiara fell heavily, an exclamation of pain escaping her. But she recovered
quickly, and was already starting to twist to her feet like a cat when
Ariakas's voice froze her.
"Stay on your knees, Kitiara," he said. Slowly and deliberately he removed his
long, shining sword from its scabbard. "Stay on your knees and bow your head,
as the condemned do when they come to the block. For I am your executioner,
Kitiara. Thus do my commanders pay for their failure!"
Kitiara remained kneeling, but she looked up at him. Seeing the flame of
hatred in her brown eyes, Ariakas felt a moment's thankfulness that he held
his sword in his hand. Once more he was compelled to admire her. Even facing
imminent death, there was no fear in her eyes. Only defiance.
He raised his blade, but the blow did not fall.
Bone-cold fingers wrapped around the wrist of his sword-arm.
"I believe you should hear the Highlord's explanation," said a hollow voice.
Lord Ariakas was a strong man. He could hurl a spear with force enough to
drive it completely through the body of a horse. He could break a man's neck
with one twist of his hand. Yet he found he could not wrench himself loose
from the chill grasp that was slowly crushing his wrist. Finally, in agony,
Ariakas dropped the sword. It fell to the floor with a clatter.
Somewhat shaken, Kitiara rose to her feet. Making a gesture, she commanded her
minion to release Ariakas. The Lord whirled around, raising a hand to call
forth the magic that would reduce this creature to cinders.
Then he stopped. Sucking in his breath, Ariakas stumbled backwards, the magic
spell he had been prepared to cast slipping from his mind.
Before him stood a figure no taller than himself, clad in armor so old it
predated the Cataclysm. The armor was that of a Knight of Solamnia. The symbol
of the Order of the Rose was traced upon the front, barely visible and worn
with age. The armored figure wore no helm, it carried no weapon. Yet
Ariakas-staring at it-fell back another step. For the figure he stared at was
not the figure of a living man.
The being's face was transparent. Ariakas could see right through it to the
wall beyond. A pale light flickered in the cavernous eyes. It stared straight
ahead, as if it, too, could see right through Ariakas.
"A death knight!" he whispered in awe.
The Lord rubbed his aching wrist, numb with the cold of those who dwell in
realms far removed from the warmth of living flesh. More frightened than he
dared admit, Ariakas bent down to retrieve his sword, muttering a charm to
ward off the aftereffects of such a deadly touch. Rising, he cast a bitter
glance at Kitiara, who was regarding him with a crooked smile.
"This-this creature serves you?" he asked hoarsely.
Kitiara shrugged. "Let us say, we agree to serve each other."
Ariakas regarded her in grudging admiration. Casting a sidelong glance at the
death knight, he sheathed his sword.
"Does he always frequent your bedroom?" He sneered. His wrist ached
abominably.
"He comes and goes as he chooses," Kitiara replied. She gathered the folds of
the gown casually around her body, reacting apparently more from the chill in
the early spring air than out of a desire for modesty. Shivering, she ran her
hand through her curly hair and shrugged. "It's his castle, after all."
Ariakas paused, a faraway look in his eyes, his mind running back over ancient
legends. "Lord Soth!" he said suddenly, turning to the figure. "Knight of the
Black Rose."
The Knight bowed in acknowledgment.
"I had forgotten the ancient story of Dargaard Keep," Ariakas murmured,
regarding Kitiara thoughtfully. "You have more nerve than even I gave you
credit for, lady-taking up residence in this accursed dwelling! According to
legend. Lord Soth commands a troop of skeletal warriors-"
"An effective force in a battle," Kitiara replied, yawning. Walking over to a
small table near a fireplace, she picked up a cut-glass carafe. "Their touch
alone"-she regarded Ariakas with smile-"well, you know what their touch is
like to those who lack the magic skills to defend against it. Some wine?"
"Very well," Ariakas replied, his eyes still on the transparent face of Lord
Soth. "What about the dark elves, the banshee women who reputedly follow him?"
"They're here... somewhere." Kit shivered again, then lifted her wineglass.
"You'll probably hear them before long. Lord Soth doesn't sleep, of course.
The ladies help him pass the long hours in the night." For an instant, Kitiara
paled, holding the wineglass to her lips. Then she set it down untouched, her
hand shaking slightly. "It is not pleasant," she said briefly. Glancing
around, she asked, "What have you done with Garibanus?"
Tossing off the glass of wine, Ariakas gestured negligently. "I left him ...
at the bottom of the stairs."
"Dead?" Kitiara questioned, pouring the Highlord another glass.
Ariakas scowled. "Perhaps. He got in my way. Does it matter?"
"I found him . . . entertaining," Kitiara said. "He filled Bakaris's place in
more than one respect."
"Bakaris, yes." Lord Ariakas drank another glass. "So your commander managed
to get himself captured as your armies went down to defeat!"
"He was an imbecile," Kitiara said coldly. "He tried riding dragonback, even
though he is still crippled."
"I heard. What happened to his arm?"
"The elf woman shot him with an arrow at the High Clerist's Tower. It was his
own fault, and he now has paid for it. I had removed him from command, making
him my bodyguard. But he insisted on trying to redeem himself."
"You don't appear to be mourning his loss," Ariakas said, eyeing Kitiara. The
dressing gown, tied together only by two ribbons at the neck, did little to
cover her lithe body.
Kit smiled. "No, Garibanus is... quite a good replacement. I hope you haven't
killed him. It will be a bother getting someone else to go to Kalaman
tomorrow."
"What are you doing at Kalaman-preparing to surrender to the elf woman and the
knights?" Lord Ariakas asked bitterly, his anger returning with the wine.
"No," Kitiara said. Sitting down in a chair opposite Ariakas, she regarded him
coolly. "I'm preparing to accept their surrender."
"Ha!" Ariakas snorted. "They're not insane. They know they're winning. And
they're right!" His face flushed. Picking up the carafe, he emptied it into
his glass. "You owe your death knight your life, Kitiara. Tonight at least.
But he won't be around you forever."
"My plans are succeeding much better than I had hoped," Kitiara replied
smoothly, not in the least disconcerted by Ariakas's flickering eyes. "If I
fooled you, my lord, I have no doubt that I have fooled the enemy."
"And how have you fooled me, Kitiara?" Ariakas asked with lethal calm. "Do you
mean to say that you are not losing on all fronts? That you are not being
driven from Solamnia? That the dragonlances and the good dragons have not
brought about ignominious defeat?" His voice rose with each word.
"They have not!" Kitiara snapped, her brown eyes flashing. Leaning across the
table, she caught hold of Ariakas's hand as he was about to raise the
wineglass to his lips. "As for the good dragons, my lord, my spies tell me
their return was due to an elflord and a silver dragon breaking into the
temple at Sanction where they discovered what was happening to the good dragon
eggs. Whose fault was that? Who slipped up there? Guarding that temple was
your responsibility-"
Furiously, Ariakas wrenched his hand free of Kitiara's grip. Hurling the
wineglass across the room, he stood and faced her.
"By the gods, you go too far!" he shouted, breathing heavily.
"Quit posturing," Kitiara said. Coolly rising to her feet, she turned and
walked across the room. "Follow me to my war room, and I will explain my
plans."

Ariakas stared down at the map of northern Ansalon. "It might work," he
admitted.
"Of course, it will work," Kit said, yawning and stretching languidly. "My
troops have run before them like frightened rabbits. Too bad the knights
weren't astute enough to notice that we always drifted southward, and they
never wondered why my forces just seemed to melt away and vanish. Even as we
speak, my armies are gathering in a sheltered valley south of these mountains.
Within a week, an army several thousand strong will be ready to march on
Kalaman. The loss of their 'Golden General' will destroy their morale. The
city will probably capitulate without a fight. From there, I regain all the
land we appear to have lost. Give me command of that fool Toede's armies to
the south, send the flying citadels I've asked for, and Solamnia will think
it's been hit by another Cataclysm!"
"But the elfwoman-"
"Need not concern us," Kitiara said.
Ariakas shook his head. "This seems the weak link in your plans, Kitiara. What
about Half-Elven? Can you be certain he won't interfere?"
"It doesn't matter about him. She is the one who counts and she is a woman in
love." Kitiara shrugged. "She trusts me, Ariakas. You scoff, but it's true.
She trusts me too much and Tanis Half-Elven too little. But that's always the
way of lovers. The ones we love most are those we trust least. It proved quite
fortunate Bakaris fell into their hands."
Hearing a change in her voice, Ariakas glanced at Kitiara sharply, but she had
turned from him, keeping her face averted. Immediately he realized she was not
as confident as she seemed, and then he knew she had lied to him. The
half-elf! What about him? Where was he, for that matter? Ariakas had heard a
great deal about him, but had never met him. The Dragon Highlord considered
pressing her on this point, then abruptly changed his mind. Much better to
have in his possession the knowledge that she had lied. It gave him a power
over this dangerous woman. Let her relax in her supposed complacency.
Yawning elaborately, Ariakas feigned indifference. "What will you do with the
elfwoman?" he asked as she would expect him to ask. Ariakas's passion for
delicate blonde women was well known.
Kitiara raised her eyebrows, giving him a playful look. "Too bad, my lord,"
she said mockingly, "but Her Dark Highness has asked for the lady. Perhaps you
could have her when the Dark Queen is finished."
Ariakas shivered. "Bah, she'll be of no use to me then. Give her to your
friend. Lord Soth. He liked elfwomen once upon a time, if I remember
correctly."
"You do," murmured Kitiara. Her eyes narrowed. She held up her hand. "Listen,"
she said softly.
Ariakas fell silent. At first he heard nothing, then he gradually became aware
of a strange sound-a wailing keen, as if a hundred women mourned their dead.
As he listened, it grew louder and louder, piercing the stillness of the
night.
The Dragon Highlord set down his wineglass, startled to see his hand
trembling. Looking at Kitiara, he saw her face pale beneath its tan. Her large
eyes were wide. Feeling his eyes upon her, Kitiara swallowed and licked her
dry lips.
"Awful, isn't it?" she asked, her voice cracking.
"I faced horrors in the Towers of High Sorcery," said Ariakas softly, "but
that was nothing compared to this. What is it?"
"Come," Kit said, standing up. "If you have the nerve, I'll show you."
Together, the two left the war room, Kitiara leading Ariakas through the
winding corridors of the castle until they came back to Kit's bedroom above
the circular entry way with the vaulted ceiling.
"Stay in the shadows," Kitiara warned.
An unnecessary warning, Ariakas thought as they crept softly out onto the
balcony overlooking the circular room. Looking down over the edge of the
balcony, Ariakas was overcome with sheer horror at the sight below him.
Sweating, he drew back swiftly in the shadows of Kitiara's bedroom.
"How can you stand that?" he asked her as she entered and shut the door softly
behind her. "Does that go on every night?"
"Yes," she said, trembling. She drew a deep breath and closed her eyes. Within
a moment she was back in control. "Sometimes I think I'm used to it, then I
make the mistake of looking down there. The song isn't so bad..."
"It's ghastly!" Ariakas muttered, wiping cold sweat from his face. "So Lord
Soth sits down there on his throne every night, surrounded by his skeletal
warriors, and the dark hags sing that horrible lullaby!"
"And it is the same song, always," Kitiara murmured. Shivering, she absently
picked up the empty wine carafe, then set it back down on the table. "Though
the past tortures him, he cannot escape it. Always he ponders, wondering what
he might have done to avoid the fate that dooms him to walk forever upon the
land without rest. The dark elven women, who were part of his downfall, are
forced to relive his story with him. Nightly they must repeat it. Nightly he
must hear it."
"What are the words?"
"I know them, now, almost as well as he does." Kitiara laughed, then
shuddered. "Call for another carafe of wine and I'll tell you his tale, if you
have the time."
"I have time," Ariakas said, settling back in his chair. "Though I must leave
in the morning if I am to send the citadels."
Kitiara smiled at him, the charming, crooked smile that so many had found so
captivating.
"Thank you, my lord," she said. "I will not fail you again." "No," said
Ariakas coolly, ringing a small silver bell, "I can promise you that, Kitiara.
If you do, you will find his fate"-he motioned downstairs where the wailing
had reached a shivering pitch-"a pleasant one compared to your own."

12
The Knight of the Black Rose.

As you know," began Kitiara, "Lord Soth was a true and noble knight of
Solamnia. But he was an intensely passionate man, lacking in self-discipline,
and this was his downfall.
"Soth fell in love with a beautiful elfmaid, a disciple of the Kingpriest of
Istar. He was married at the time, but thoughts of his wife vanished at the
sight of the elfmaid's beauty. Forsaking both his sacred marriage vows and his
knightly vows, Soth gave in to his passion. Lying to the girl, he seduced her
and brought her to live at Dargaard Keep, promising to marry her. His wife
disappeared under sinister circumstances."
Kitiara shrugged, then continued:
"According to what I've heard of the song, the elfmaid remained true to the
knight, even after she discovered his terrible misdeeds. She prayed to the
Goddess Mishakal that the knight be allowed to redeem himself and, apparently,
her prayers were answered. Lord Soth was given the power to prevent the
Cataclysm, though it would mean sacrificing his own life.
"Strengthened by the love of the girl he had wronged, Lord Soth left for
Istar, fully intending to stop the Kingpriest and restore his shattered honor.
"But the knight was halted in his journey by elven women, disciples of the
Kingpriest, who knew of Lord Soth's crime and threatened to ruin him. To
weaken the effects of the elfmaid's love, they intimated that she had been
unfaithful to him in his absence.
"Soth's passions took hold of him, destroying his reason. In a jealous rage he
rode back to Dargaard Keep. Entering his door, he accused the innocent girl of
betraying him. Then the Cataclysm struck. The great chandelier in the entryway
fell to the floor, consuming the elfmaid and her child in flames. As she died,
she called down a curse upon the knight, condemning him to eternal, dreadful
life. Soth and his followers perished in the fire, only to be reborn in
hideous form."
"So this is what he hears," Ariakas murmured, listening.

And in the climate of dreams
When you recall her, when the world of the dream
expands, wavers in light,
when you stand at the edge of blessedness and sun.
Then we shall make you remember, shall make you live again through the long
denial of body
For you were first dark in the light's hollow, expanding like a stain, a
cancer
For you were the shark in the slowed water beginning to move
For you were the notched head of a snake, sensing forever warmth and form
For you were inexplicable death in the crib, the long house in betrayal
And you were more terrible than this in a loud alley of visions, for you
passed through unharmed, unchanging
As the women screamed, unraveling silence, halving the door of the world,
bringing forth monsters
As a child opened in parabolas of fire There at the borders of two lands
burning
As the world split, wanting to swallow you back willing to give up everything
to lose you in darkness.
You passed through these unharmed, unchanging,
but now you see them
strung on our words-on your own conceiving
as you pass from night-to awareness of night
to know that hatred is the calm of philosophers
that its price is forever
that it draws you through meteors
through winter's transfixion
through the blasted rose
through the sharks' water
through the black compression of oceans
through rock-through magma
to yourself-to an abscess of nothing
that you will recognize as nothing
that you will know is coming again and again
under the same rules.

13
The trap.

Bakaris slept fitfully in his jail cell. Though haughty and insolent during
the day, his nights were tortured by erotic dreams of Kitiara and fearful
dreams of his execution at the hands of the Knights of Solamnia. Or perhaps it
was his execution at Kitiara's hands. He was never certain, when he woke in a
cold sweat, which it had been. Lying in his cold cell in the still hours of
the night when he could not sleep, Bakaris cursed the elven woman who had been
the cause of his downfall. Over and over he plotted his revenge upon her-if
only she would fall into his hands.
Bakaris was thinking of this, hovering between sleep and wakefulness, when the
sound of a key in the lock of his cell door brought him to his feet. It was
near dawn, near the hour of execution! Perhaps the knights were coming for
him!
"Who is it?" Bakaris called harshly.
"Hush!" commanded a voice. "You are in no danger, if you keep quiet and do as
you are told."
Bakaris sat back down on his bed in astonishment. He recognized the voice. How
not? Night after night it had spoken in his vengeful thoughts. The elf woman!
And the commander could see two other figures in the shadows, small figures.
The dwarf and the kender, most likely. They always hung around the elf woman.
The cell door opened. The elf woman glided inside. She was heavily cloaked and
carried another cloak in her hand.
"Hurry," she ordered coldly. "Put this on."
"Not until I know what this is about," Bakaris said suspiciously, though his
soul sang for joy.
"We are exchanging you for ... for another prisoner," Laurana replied.
Bakaris frowned. He mustn't seem too eager.
"I don't believe you," he stated, lying back down on his bed. "It's a trap-"
"I don't care what you believe!" Laurana snapped impatiently. "You're coming
if I have to knock you senseless! It won't matter whether you are conscious or
not, just so long as I'm able to exhibit you to Kiti-the one wants you!"
Kitiara! So that was it. What was she up to? What game was she playing?
Bakaris hesitated. He didn't trust Kit any more than she trusted him. She was
quite capable of using him to further her own ends, which is undoubtedly what
she was doing now. But perhaps he could use her in return. If only he knew
what was going on! But looking at Laurana's pale, rigid face, Bakaris knew
that she was quite prepared to carry out her threat. He would have to bide his
time.
"It seems I have no choice," he said. Moonlight filtered through a barred
window into the filthy cell, shining on Bakaris's face. He'd been in prison
for weeks. How long he didn't know, he'd lost count. As he reached for the
cloak, he caught Laurana's cold green eyes, which were fixed on him intently,
narrow slightly in disgust.
Self-consciously, Bakaris raised his good hand and scratched the new growth of
beard.
"Pardon, your ladyship," he said sarcastically, "but the servants in your
establishment have not thought fit to bring me a razor. I know how the sight
of facial hair disgusts you elves!"
To his surprise, Bakaris saw his words draw blood. Laurana's face turned pale,
her lips chalk-white. Only by a supreme effort did she control herself.
"Move!" she said in a strangled voice.
At the sound, the dwarf entered the room, hand on his battle-axe. "You heard
the general," Flint snarled. "Get going. Why your miserable carcass is worth
trading for Tanis-"
"Flint!" said Laurana tersely.
Suddenly Bakaris understood! Kitiara's plan began to take shape in his mind.
"So-Tanis! He's the one I'm being exchanged for." He watched Laurana's face
closely. No reaction. He might have been speaking of a stranger instead of a
man Kitiara had told him was this woman's lover. He tried again, testing his
theory. "I wouldn't call him a prisoner, however, unless you speak of a
prisoner of love. Kit must have tired of him. Ah, well. Poor man. I'll miss
him. He and I have much in common-"
Now there was a reaction. He saw the delicate jaws clench, the shoulders
tremble beneath the cloak. Without a word, Laurana turned and stalked out of
the cell. So he was right. This had something to do with the bearded half-elf.
But what? Tanis had left Kit in Flotsam. Had she found him again? Had he
returned to her? Bakaris fell silent, wrapping the cloak around him. Not that
it mattered, not to him. He would be able to use this new information for his
own revenge. Recalling Laurana's strained and rigid face in the moonlight,
Bakaris thanked the Dark Queen for her favors as the dwarf shoved him out the
cell door.
The sun had not risen yet, although a faint pink line on the eastern horizon
foretold that dawn was an hour or so away. It was still dark in the city of
Kalaman-dark and silent as the town slept soundly following its day and night
of revelry. Even the guards yawned at their post or, in some cases, snored as
they slept soundly. It was an easy task for the four heavily cloaked figures
to flit silently through the streets until they came to a small locked door in
the city wall.
"This used to lead to some stairs that led up to the top of the wall, across
it, then back down to the other side," whispered Tasslehoff, fumbling in one
of his pouches until he found his lock-picking tools.
"How do you know?" Flint muttered, peering around nervously.
"I used to come to Kalaman when I was little," Tas said. Finding the slender
piece of wire, his small, skilled hands slipped it inside the lock. "My
parents brought me. We always came in and out this way."
"Why didn't you use the front gate, or would that have been too simple?" Flint
growled.
"Hurry up!" ordered Laurana impatiently.
"We would have used the front gate," Tas said, manipulating the wire. "Ah,
there." Removing the wire, he put it carefully back into his pouch, then
quietly swung the old door open. "Where was I? Oh, yes. We would have used the
front gate, but kender weren't allowed in the city."
"And your parents came in anyway!" Flint snorted, following Tas through the
door and up a narrow flight of stone stairs. The dwarf was only half-listening
to the kender. He kept his eye on Bakaris, who was, in Flint's view, behaving
himself just a bit too well. Laurana had withdrawn completely within herself.
Her only words were sharp commands to hurry.
"Well, of course," Tas said, prattling away cheerfully. "They always
considered it an oversight. I mean, why should we be on the same list as
goblins? Someone must have put us there accidentally. But my parents didn't
consider it was polite to argue, so we just came in and out by the side door.
Easier for everyone all around. Here we are. Open that door-it's not usually
locked. Oops, careful. There's a guard. Wait until he's gone."
Pressing themselves against the wall, they hid in the shadows until the guard
had stumbled wearily past, nearly asleep on his feet. Then they silently
crossed the wall, entered another door, ran down another flight of stairs, and
were outside the city walls.
They were alone. Flint, looking around, could see no sign of anybody or
anything in the half-light before dawn. Shivering, he huddled in his cloak,
feeling apprehension creep over him. What if Kitiara was telling the truth?
What if Tanis was with her? What if he was dying?
Angrily Flint forced himself to stop thinking about that. He almost hoped it
was a trap! Suddenly his mind was wrenched from its dark thoughts by a harsh
voice, speaking so near that he started in terror.
"Is that you, Bakaris?"
"Yes. Good to see you again, Gakhan."
Shaking, Flint turned to see a dark figure emerge from the shadows of the
wall. It was heavily cloaked and swathed in cloth. He remembered Tas's
description of the draconian.
"Are they carrying any other weapons?" Gakhan demanded, his eyes on Flint's
battle-axe.
"No," Laurana answered sharply.
"Search them," Gakhan ordered Bakaris.
"You have my word of honor," Laurana said angrily. "I am a princess of the
Qualinesti-"
Bakaris took a step toward her. "Elves have their own code of honor," he
sneered. "Or so you said the night you shot me with your cursed arrow."
Laurana's face flushed, but she made no answer nor did she fall back before
his advance.
Coming to stand in front of her, Bakaris lifted his right arm with his left
hand, then let it fall. "You destroyed my career, my life."
Laurana, holding himself rigid, watched him without moving. "I said I carry no
weapons."
"You can search me, if you like," offered Tasslehoff, interposing
himself-accidentally-between Bakaris and Laurana. "Here!" He dumped the
contents of a pouch onto Bakaris's foot.
"Damn you!" Bakaris swore, cuffing the kender on the side of the head.
"Flint!" Laurana cautioned warningly through clenched teeth. She could see the
dwarf's face red with rage. At her command, the dwarf choked back his anger.
"I'm s-sorry, truly!" Tas snuffled, fumbling around the ground after his
things.
"If you delay much longer, we won't have to alert the guard," Laurana said
coldly, determined not to tremble at the man's foul touch. "The sun will be up
and they will see us clearly."
"The elfwoman is right, Bakaris," Gakhan said, an edge in his reptilian voice.
"Take the dwarf's battle-axe and let's get out of here."
Looking at the brightening horizon-and at the cloaked and hooded
draconian-Bakaris gave Laurana a vicious glance, then snatched the battle-axe
away from the dwarf.
"He's no threat! What's an old man like him going to do, anyway?" Bakaris
muttered.
"Get moving," Gakhan ordered Laurana, ignoring Bakaris. "Head for that grove
of trees. Keep hidden and don't try alerting the guard. I am a magic-user and
my spells are deadly. The Dark Lady said to bring you safely, 'general.' I
have no instructions regarding your two friends."
They followed Gakhan across the flat, open ground outside the city gates to a
large grove of trees, keeping in the shadows as much as possible. Bakaris
walked beside Laurana. Holding her head high, she resolutely refused to even
acknowledge his existence. Reaching the trees, Gakhan pointed.
"Here are our mounts," he said.
"We're not going anywhere!" Laurana said angrily, staring at the creatures in
alarm.
At first Flint thought they were small dragons, but as he drew nearer, the
dwarf caught his breath.
"Wyvern!" he breathed.
Distantly related to dragons, wyvern are smaller and lighter and were often
used by the Highlords to relay messages, as the griffons were used by the
elven lords. Not nearly as intelligent as dragons, the wyvern are noted for
their cruel and chaotic natures. The animals in the grove peered at the
companions with red eyes, their scorpion-like tails curled menacingly. Tipped
with poison, the tail could sting an enemy to death within seconds.
"Where is Tanis?" Laurana demanded.
"He grew worse," Gakhan answered. "If you want to see him, you must come to
Dargaard Keep."
"No," Laurana drew back, only to feel Bakaris's hand close over her arm in a
firm grip.
"Don't call for help," he said pleasantly, "or one of your friends will die.
Well, it seems we're taking a little trip to Dargaard Keep. Tanis is a dear
friend. I'd hate for him to miss seeing you." Bakaris turned to the draconian.
"Gakhan, go back to Kalaman. Let us know the reaction of the people when they
discover their 'general' missing."
Gakhan hesitated, his dark reptilian eyes regarding Bakaris warily. Kitiara
had warned him something like this might occur. He guessed what Bakaris had in
mind-his own private revenge. Gakhan could stop Bakaris, that was no problem.
But there was the chance that-during the unpleasantness-one of the prisoners
might escape and go for help. They were too near the city walls for comfort.
Blast Bakaris anyway! Gakhan scowled, then realized there was nothing he could
do but hope Kitiara had provided for this contingency. Shrugging, Gakhan
comforted himself with the thought of Bakaris's fate when he returned to the
Dark Lady.
"Certainly, Commander," the draconian replied smoothly. Bowing, Gakhan faded
back into the shadows. They could see his cloaked figure darting from tree to
tree, heading for Kalaman. Bakaris's face grew eager, the cruel lines around
the bearded mouth deepened.
"Come on. General." Bakaris shoved Laurana toward the wyvern.
But instead of advancing, Laurana whirled to face the man,
"Tell me one thing," she said through pale lips. "Is it true? Is Tanis with
... with Kitiara? Th-the note said he was wounded at Vingaard Keep . . .
dying..."
Seeing the anguish in her eyes-anguish not for herself, but for the half-elf,
Bakaris smiled. He had never dreamed revenge could be so satisfying. "How
should I know? I've been locked in your stinking prison. But I find it
difficult to believe he'd be wounded. Kit never allowed him near a fight! The
only battles he wages are those of love..."
Laurana's head drooped. Bakaris laid a hand on her arm in mocking sympathy.
Angrily Laurana shook free, turning to keep her face hidden.
"I don't believe you!" Flint growled. "Tanis would never allow Kitiara do
this-"
"Oh, you're right there, dwarf," Bakaris said, realizing quickly just how far
his lies would be believed. "He knows nothing of this. The Dark Lady sent him
to Neraka weeks ago, to prepare for our audience with the Queen."
"You know, Flint," Tas said solemnly. "Tanis was really fond of Kitiara. Do
you remember that party at the Inn of the Last Home? It was Tanis's Day of
Life Gift party. He'd just 'come of age' by elven standards and-boy! Was that
some party! Do you remember? Caramon got a tankard of ale dumped over his head
when he grabbed Dezra. And Raistlin drank too much wine and one of his spells
misfired and burned up Otik's apron, and Kit and Tanis were together in that
corner next to the fire-pit, and they were-"
Bakaris glanced at Tas in annoyance. The commander disliked being reminded of
how close Kitiara really was to the half-elf.
"Tell the kender to keep quiet, General," Bakaris growled, "or I'll let the
wyvern have him. Two hostages would suit the Dark Lady just as well as three."
"So it is a trap," Laurana said softly, looking around in a daze. "Tanis isn't
dying . . . he's not even there! I've been a fool-"
"We're not going anywhere with you!" Flint stated, planting his feet on the
ground firmly.
Bakaris regarded him coolly. "Have you ever seen a wyvern sting anyone to
death?"
"No," said Tas with interest, "but I saw a scorpion once. Is it like that? Not
that I'd want to try it, mind you," the kender faltered, seeing Bakaris's face
darken.
"The guards on the walls of the city might well hear your screams," Bakaris
said to Laurana, who stared at him as if he were speaking a language she
didn't comprehend. "But, by then, it would be too late."
"I've been a fool," Laurana repeated softly.
"Say the word, Laurana!" Flint said stubbornly. "We'll fight-"
"No," she said in a small voice, like a child's. "No. I won't risk your lives,
not you and Tas. It was my folly. I will pay. Bakaris, take me- Let my friends
go-"
"Enough of this!" Bakaris said impatiently. "I'm not letting anyone go!"
Climbing onto the back of a wyvern, he extended his hand to Laurana. "There's
only two, so we'll have to double up."
Her face expressionless, Laurana accepted Bakaris's help and climbed onto the
wyvern. Putting his good arm around her, he held her close, grinning.
At his touch, Laurana's face regained some of its color. Angrily, she tried to
free herself from his grip.
"You are much safer this way, General," Bakaris said harshly in her ear. "I
would not want you to fall."
Laurana bit her lip and stared straight ahead, forcing herself not to cry.
"Do these creatures always smell so awful," Tas said, regarding the wyvern
with disgust as he helped Flint mount. "I think you should convince them to
bathe-"
"Watch the tail," Bakaris said coldly. "The wyvern will generally not kill
unless I give them the command, but they are high-strung. Little things upset
them."
"Oh." Tas gulped. "I'm sure I didn't mean to be insulting. Actually, I suppose
one could get used to the smell, after a bit-"
At a signal from Bakaris, the wyvern spread their leathery wings and soared
into the air, flying slowly under the unaccustomed burden. Flint gripped
Tasslehoff tightly and kept his eyes on Laurana, flying ahead of them with
Bakaris. Occasionally the dwarf saw Bakaris lean close to Laurana and he saw
Laurana pull away from him. The dwarf's face grew grim.
"That Bakaris is up to no good!" the dwarf muttered to Tas.
"What?" said Tas, turning around.
"I said that Bakaris is up to no good!" the dwarf shouted. "And I'll wager
he's acting on his own and not following orders, either. That Gakhan-character
wasn't at all pleased about being ordered off."
"What?" Tas yelled. '1 can't hear! All this wind-"
"Oh, never mind!" The dwarf felt dizzy all of a sudden. He was finding it hard
to breathe. Trying to take his mind off himself, he stared gloomily down at
the treetops emerging from the shadows as the sun began to rise.
After flying for about an hour, Bakaris made a motion with his hand and the
wyvern began slowly circling, searching for a clear place to land on the
heavily forested mountainside. Pointing at a small clearing just barely
visible among the trees, Bakaris shouted instructions to the lead beast. The
wyvern landed as ordered and Bakaris climbed down.
Flint glanced around, his fears growing. There was no sign of any fortress. No
sign of life of any kind. They were in a small cleared area, surrounded by
tall pine trees whose ancient limbs were so thick and tangled that they
effectively shut out most of the sun's light. Around them, the forest was dark
and filled with moving shadows. At one end of the clearing Flint saw a small
cave, carved out of the cliff face.
"Where are we?" Laurana asked sternly. "This can't possibly be Dargaard Keep.
Why are we stopping?"
"Astute observation, 'general,' " Bakaris said pleasantly. "Dargaard Keep is
about a mile farther up the mountain. They're not expecting us yet. The Dark
Lady probably hasn't even had her breakfast. We wouldn't want to be impolite
and disturb her, would we?" He glanced over at Tas and Flint. "You two-stay
put," he instructed, as the kender seemed about to jump down. Tas froze.
Moving to stand near Laurana, Bakaris placed his hand on the neck of the
wyvern. The beast's lidless eyes followed his every move as expectantly as a
dog waiting to be fed.
"You get down, Lady Laurana," Bakaris said with lethal softness, coming quite
near her as she sat upon the wyvern's back, regarding him scornfully. "We've
time for a little ... breakfast ourselves..."
Laurana's eyes flashed. Her hand moved to her sword with such conviction she
almost convinced herself it was there. "Stand away from me!" she commanded
with such presence that, for a moment, Bakaris halted. Then, grinning, he
reached up and grabbed hold of her wrist.
"No, lady. I wouldn't struggle. Remember the wyvern-and your friends over
there. One word from me, and they will die very nasty deaths!"
Cringing, Laurana looked over to see the wyvern's scorpion tail poised above
Flint's back. The beast quivered with anticipation of the kill.
"No! Laurana-" Flint began in agony, but she cast a sharp glance at him,
reminding him that she was still the general. Her face drained of life, she
allowed Bakaris to help her down.
"There, I thought you looked hungry," Bakaris said, grinning.
"Let them go!" Laurana demanded. "It's me you want-"
"You're right there," Bakaris said, grabbing hold of her around her waist.
"But their presence seems to insure your good behavior."
"Don't you worry about us, Laurana!" Flint roared.
"Shut up, dwarf!" Bakaris cried in a rage. Shoving Laurana back against the
body of the wyvern, he turned to stare at the dwarf and the kender. Flint's
blood chilled as he saw the wild madness in the man's eyes.
"I-I think we'd better do as he says, Flint," Tas said, swallowing. "He'll
hurt Laurana-"
"Hurt her? Oh, not much," Bakaris said, laughing. "She will still be useful to
Kitiara for whatever purpose she may have in mind. But don't move, dwarf. I
may forget myself!" Bakaris warned, hearing Flint choke in anger. He turned
back to Laurana. "As it is, Kitiara won't mind if I have a little fun with the
lady first. No, don't faint-"
It was an old elven self-defense technique. Flint had seen it done often and
he tensed, ready to act as Laurana's eyes rolled up, her body sagged, and her
knees seemed to give way.
Instinctively, Bakaris reached to catch her.
"No, you don't! I like my women lively-oof!"
Laurana's fist slammed into his stomach, knocking the breath from his body.
Doubling over in pain, he fell forward. Bringing her knee up, Laurana caught
him directly under the chin. As Bakaris pitched into the dirt, Flint grabbed
the startled kender and slid off the wyvern.
"Run, Flint! Quickly!" Laurana gasped, leaping away from the wyvern and the
man groaning on the ground. "Get into the woods!"
But Bakaris, his face twisted with rage, reached out his hand and grabbed
Laurana's ankle. She stumbled and fell flat, kicking frantically at him.
Wielding a tree limb, Flint leaped at Bakaris as the commander was struggling
to his feet. Hearing Flint's roar, Bakaris spun around and struck the dwarf in
the face with the back of his hand. In the same motion, he caught hold of
Laurana's arm and dragged her to her feet. Then, turning, he glared at Tas,
who had run up beside the unconscious dwarf,
"The lady and I are going into the cave..." Bakaris said, breathing heavily.
He gave Laurana's arm a wrench, causing her to cry out in pain. "Make one
move, kender, and I'll break her arm. Once we get into the cave, I don't want
to be disturbed. There's a dagger in my belt. I'll be holding it to the lady's
throat. Do you understand, little fool?"
"Yes, s-sir," stammered Tasslehoff. "I-I wouldn't dream of interfering. I-I'll
just stay here with-with Flint."
"Don't go into the woods." Bakaris began to drag Laurana toward the cave.
"Draconians guard the forest."
"N-no, sir," stuttered Tas, kneeling down beside Flint, his eyes wide.
Satisfied, Bakaris glared once more at the cowering kender, then shoved
Laurana toward the entrance to the cave.
Blinded by tears, Laurana stumbled forward. As if to remind her she was
trapped, Bakaris twisted her arm again. The pain was excruciating. There was
no way to break free of the man's powerful grip. Cursing herself for falling
into this trap, Laurana tried to battle her fear and think clearly. It was
hard, the man's hand was strong, and his smell-the human smell-
reminded her of Tanis in a horrifying way.
As if guessing her thoughts, Bakaris clutched her close to him, rubbing his
bearded face against her smooth cheek.
"You will be one more woman the half-elf and I have shared-" he whispered
hoarsely, then his voice broke off in a bubble of agony.
For an instant, Bakaris's grip on Laurana's arm tightened almost past
endurance. Then it loosened. His hand slipped from her arm. Laurana tore free
of his grip, then spun around to face him.
Blood oozed between Bakaris's fingers as he clutched at his side where
Tasslehoff's little knife still protruded from the wound. Drawing his own
dagger, the man lunged at the defiant kender.
Something snapped in Laurana, letting loose a wild fury and hatred she had not
guessed lurked inside her. No longer feeling any fear, no longer caring if she
lived or died, Laurana had one thought in mind-she would kill this human male.
With a savage shriek, she flung herself at him, knocking him to the ground. He
gave a grunt, then lay still beneath her. Desperately Laurana fought, trying
to grab his knife. Then she realized his body was not moving. Slowly she rose
to her feet, shaking in reaction.
For a moment she could see nothing through the red mist before her eyes. When
it cleared, she saw Tasslehoff roll the body over. Bakaris lay dead. His eyes
stared up at the sky, a look of profound shock and surprise on his face. His
hand still clutched the dagger he had driven into his own gut.
"What happened?" Laurana whispered, quivering with anger and revulsion.
"You knocked him down and he fell on his knife," Tas said calmly.
"But before that-"
"Oh, I stuck him," Tas said. Plucking his knife from the man's side, he looked
at it proudly. "And Caramon told me it wouldn't be of any use unless I met a
vicious rabbit! Wait until I tell him!"
"You know, Laurana," he continued, somewhat sadly, "everyone always
underestimates us kender. Bakaris really should have searched my pouches. Say,
that was a neat fainting trick you pulled. Did you-"
"How's Flint?" Laurana interrupted, not wanting to remember those last few
horrible moments. Without quite knowing what she was doing or why, she pulled
her cape from her shoulders and threw it down over the bearded face. "We've
got to get out of here."
"He'll be all right," Tas said, glancing over at the dwarf, who was groaning
and shaking his head. "What about the wyvern? Do you think they'll attack us?"
"I don't know," Laurana said, eyeing the animals. The wyvern stared around
uneasily, uncertain as to what had happened to their master. "I've heard
they're not very smart. They generally won't act on their own. Maybe-if we
don't make any sudden moves-we can escape into the forest before they figure
out what's happened. Help Flint."
"Come on, Flint," Tas said urgently, tugging at the dwarf. "We've got to esc-"
The kender's voice was cut off by a wild cry, a cry of such fear and terror
that it made Tas's hair stand on end. Looking up, he saw Laurana staring at a
figure that had-apparently-emerged from the cave. At the sight of the figure,
Tasslehoff felt the most terrible sensation sweep over his body. His heart
raced, his hands went cold, he couldn't breathe.
"Flint!" he managed to gasp before his throat closed completely.
The dwarf, hearing a tone in the kender's voice he'd never heard before,
struggled to sit up. "What-"
Tas could only point.
Flint focused his bleary vision in the direction Tas indicated.
"In the name of Reorx," the dwarf said, his voice breaking, "what is that?"
The figure moved relentlessly toward Laurana, who-held spellbound at its
command-could do nothing but stare at it. Dressed in antique armor, it might
have been a Knight of Solamnia. But the armor was blackened as if it had been
burned by fire. An orange light flared beneath its helm, while the helm itself
seemed perched on empty air.
The figure reached out an armored arm. Flint choked in horror. The armored arm
did not end in a hand. The knight seemingly grasped hold of Laurana with
nothing but air. But she screamed in pain, falling to her knees in front of
the ghastly vision. Her head slumped forward, she collapsed, senseless from
the chill touch. The knight released his grip, letting the inert body slip to
the ground. Bending down, the knight lifted her in his arms.
Tas started to move, but the knight turned his flaring orange gaze upon him
and the kender was held fast, gazing into the orange flame of the creature's
eyes. Neither he nor Flint could look away, though the horror was so great
that the dwarf feared he might lose his reason. Only his love and concern for
Laurana kept him clinging to consciousness. Over and over he told himself he
must do something, he must save her. But he couldn't make his trembling body
obey. The knight's flickering gaze swept over the two.
"Go back to Kalaman," said a hollow voice. 'Tell them we have the elfwoman.
The Dark Lady will arrive tomorrow at noon, to discuss terms of surrender."
Turning, the knight walked over Bakaris's body, the figure's shimmering armor
passing right through the corpse as if it no longer existed. Then the knight
vanished into the dark shadows of the woods, carrying Laurana in his arms.
With the knight's departure, the spell was lifted. Tas, feeling weak and sick,
began to shiver uncontrollably. Flint struggled to his feet.
"I'm going after it-" the dwarf muttered, though his hands shook so he could
barely lift his helm from the dirt.
"N-no," stammered Tasslehoff, his face strained and white as he stared after
the knight. "Whatever that thing was, we can't fight it. I-I was scared,
Flint!" The kender shook his head in misery. "I-I'm sorry, but I can't face
that-that thing again! We've got to go back to Kalaman. Maybe we can get
help-"
Tas started off into the woods at a run. For a moment Flint stood angry and
irresolute, staring after Laurana. Then his face crumpled in agony. "He's
right," he mumbled. "I can't go after that thing either. Whatever it was, it
wasn't of this world."
Turning away, Flint caught a glimpse of Bakaris, lying beneath Laurana's
cloak. Swift pain cramped the dwarf's heart. Ignoring it, Flint said to
himself with sudden certainty, "He was lying about Tanis. And so was Kitiara.
He's not with her, I know it!" The dwarf clenched his fist. "I don't know
where Tanis is, but someday I'll have to face him and I'll have to tell him
... I let him down. He trusted me to keep her safe, and I failed!" The dwarf
closed his eyes. Then he heard Tas shout. Sighing, he stumbled blindly after
the kender, rubbing his left arm as he ran. "How will I ever tell him?" he
moaned. "How?"

14
A peaceful interlude.

"All right," said Tanis, glaring at the man who sat so calmly in front of him.
"I want answers. You deliberately took us into the maelstrom! Why? Did you
know this place was here? Where are we? Where are the others?"
Berem sat before Tanis in a wooden chair. It was ornately carved with figures
of birds and animals in a style popular among the elves. In fact, it reminded
Tanis strongly of Lorac's throne in the doomed elven kingdom of Silvanesti.
The likeness did nothing to calm Tanis's spirits, and Berem flinched under the
half-elf's angry stare. The hands that were too young for the middle-aged
man's body plucked at his shabby trousers. He shifted his gaze to glance
nervously around their strange surroundings.
"Damn it! Answer me!" Tanis raved. Flinging himself at Berem, he gripped the
man's shirt and yanked him up from his chair. Then his clenching hands moved
to the man's throat.
"Tanis!" Swiftly Goldmoon rose and laid a restraining hand on Tanis's arm. But
the half-elf was beyond reason. His face was so twisted with fear and anger
that she didn't recognize him. Frantically she tore at the hands that gripped
Berem. "Riverwind, make him stop!"
The big Plainsman grasped Tanis by the wrists and wrenched him away from
Berem, holding the half-elf in his strong arms.
"Leave him alone, Tanis!"
For a moment, Tanis struggled, then went limp, drawing a deep, shuddering
breath.
"He's a mute," Riverwind said sternly. "Even if he wanted to tell you, he
couldn't. He can't talk-"
"Yes, I can."
The three stopped, startled, staring at Berem.
"I can talk," he said calmly, speaking Common. Absently he rubbed his throat
where the marks of Tanis's fingers stood out red against his tan skin.
"Then why pretend you can't?" Tanis asked, breathing heavily.
Berem rubbed his neck, his eyes on Tanis. "People don't ask questions of a man
who can't talk. ..."
Tanis forced himself to calm down, to think about this a moment. Glancing at
Riverwind and Goldmoon, he saw Riverwind scowl and shake his head. Goldmoon
shrugged slightly. Finally Tanis dragged another wooden chair over to sit in
front of Berem. Noticing that the back of the chair was split and cracked, he
sat down carefully. "Berem," Tanis spoke slowly, curbing his impatience,
"you're talking to us. Does that mean you'll answer our questions?"
Berem stared at Tanis, then nodded his head, once.
"Why?" Tanis asked.
Berem licked his lips, glancing around. "I-You must help me-get out of
here-I-I can't stay here-"
Tanis felt chilled, despite the warm stuffiness of the room. "Are you in
danger? Are we in danger? What is this place?"
"I don't know!" Berem looked around helplessly. "I don't know where we are. I
only know I cannot stay here. I must get back!"
"Why? The Dragon Highlords are hunting for you. One of th-the Highlords-"
Tanis coughed, then spoke huskily. "One of them told me that you were the key
to complete victory for the Dark Queen. Why, Berem? What do you have that they
want?"
"I don't know!" Berem cried, clenching his fist. "I only know that they have
been chasing me ... I have been fleeing them for-for years! No peace ... no
rest!"
"How long, Berem?" Tanis asked softly. "How long have they been chasing you?"
"Years!" Berem said in a strangled voice. "Years ... I don't know how long."
Sighing, he seemed to sink back into his calm complacency. "I am three hundred
and twenty-two years old. Twenty-three? Twenty-four?" He shrugged. "For most
of those years, the Queen has been seeking me."
"Three hundred and twenty-two!" Goldmoon said in astonishment. "But-but you're
human! That's not possible!"
"Yes, I am human," Berem said, his blue eyes focusing on Goldmoon. "I know it
is impossible. I have died. Many times." His gaze switched to Tanis. "You saw
me die. It was in Pax Tharkas. I recognized you when you first came on the
ship."
"You did die when the rocks fell on you!" Tanis exclaimed. "But we saw you
alive at the wedding feast, Sturm and I-"
"Yes. I saw you, too. That's why I fled. I knew . . . there would be more
questions." Berem shook his head. "How could I explain my survival to you? I
do not know myself how I survive! All I know is that I die and then I'm alive
again. Again and again." His head sank into his hands. "All I want is peace!"
Tanis was completely mystified. Scratching his beard, he stared at the man.
That he was lying was almost certain. Oh, not about dying and coming back to
life. Tanis had seen that himself. But he knew for a fact that the Queen of
Darkness was exerting almost all forces she could spare from the war to search
for this man. Surely he must know why!
"Berem, how did the green gemstone get, uh, into your flesh?"
"I don't know," Berem answered in such a low voice they could barely hear him.
Self-consciously, his hand clutched his breast as if it pained him. "It is
part of my body, like my bones and my blood. I-I think it is what brings me
back to life."
"Can you remove it?" Goldmoon asked gently, sinking down onto a cushion next
to Berem, her hand on his arm.
Berem shook his head violently, his gray hair falling over his eyes. "I've
tried!" he muttered, "Many times I've tried to rip it out! I might as well try
to tear out my own heart!"
Tanis shivered, then sighed in exasperation. This was no help! He still had no
idea where they were. He'd hoped Berem could tell them . . . Once more, Tanis
looked around their strange surroundings. They were in a room of an obviously
ancient building, lit with a soft eerie light that seemed to come from the
moss that covered the walls like tapestry. The furniture was as old as the
building and in battered, shabby condition, though it must have been rich
once. There were no windows. Nothing could be heard outside. They had no idea
how long they'd been here. Time had grown confused, broken only by eating some
of the strange plants and sleeping fitfully.
Tanis and Riverwind had explored the building but could find no exit and no
other signs of life. Tanis wondered, in fact, if some magical spell had not
been laid over the whole thing, a spell designed to keep them inside. For
every time they ventured forth, the narrow, dimly lit hallways always led them
inexplicably back to this room.
They remembered little about what happened after the ship sank into the
maelstrom. Tanis recalled hearing the wooden planks shattering. He remembered
seeing the mast fall, the sails rip. He heard screams. He saw Caramon washed
overboard by a gigantic wave. He remembered seeing Tika's red curls swirling
in the water, then she, too, was gone. There had been the dragon ... and
Kitiara.... The scratches of the dragon's talons remained on his arm. Then
there was another wave ... he remembered holding his breath until he knew he
would die from the pain in his lungs. He remembered thinking that death would
be easy and welcome, even as he fought to grab hold of a piece of wood. He
remembered surfacing in the rushing water, only to be sucked down again and
knowing it was the end....
And then he had awakened in this strange place, his clothes wet with seawater,
to find Riverwind and Goldmoon and Berem here with him.
At first Berem had seemed terrified of them, crouching in a corner, refusing
to let them come near. Patiently Goldmoon spoke to him and brought him food.
Gradually, her gentle ministrations won him over. That and-Tanis recognized
now- his intense desire to leave this place.
Tanis had supposed, when he first began to question Berem, that the man had
steered the ship into the maelstrom because he knew this place existed, that
he had brought them here on purpose.
But now the half-elf wasn't so certain. It was apparent from the confused and
frightened look on Berem's face that he had no idea where they were either.
The mere fact that he was even talking to them gave an indication that what he
said was true. He was desperate. He wanted out of here. Why?
"Berem-" Tanis began, getting up and pacing about the room. He felt Berem's
gaze follow him. "If you are running from the Queen of Darkness, this seems
like it might be an ideal place to hide-"
"No!" Berem shouted, half-rising.
Tanis spun around- "Why not? Why are you so determined to get out of here? Why
do you want to go back to where she will find you?"
Berem cringed, huddling back down in his chair. "I-I don't know anything about
this place! I swear it! I-I m-must get back. ... There's someplace I must
go... I'm hunting for something... Until I find it, there'll be no rest."
"Find it! Find what?" Tanis shouted. He felt Goldmoon's hand on his and he
knew he was raving like a maniac, but it was so frustrating! To have what the
Queen of Darkness would give the world to acquire and not know why!
"I can't tell you!" Berem whimpered.
Tanis sucked in his breath, closing his eyes, trying to calm himself. His head
throbbed. He felt as if he might fly into a thousand pieces. Goldmoon rose to
her feet. Putting both her hands on his shoulders, she whispered soothing
words he could not comprehend, except for the name of Mishakal. Slowly the
terrible feeling passed, leaving him drained and exhausted.
"All right, Berem." Tanis sighed. "It's all right. I'm sorry. We won't talk
about it anymore. Tell me about yourself. Where are you from?"
Berem hesitated a moment, his eyes narrowed and he grew tense. Tanis was
struck by Berem's peculiar manner. "I'm from Solace. Where are you from?" he
repeated casually.
Berem regarded him warily. "You-you would never have heard of it. A-A small
village outside of ... outside of..." He swallowed, then cleared his throat.
"Neraka."
"Neraka?" Tanis looked at Riverwind.
The Plainsman shook his head. "He's right. I have never heard of it."
"Nor I," Tanis muttered. "Too bad Tasslehoff and his maps aren't here . . .
Berem, why-"
"Tanis!" Goldmoon cried.
The half-elf rose at the sound of her voice, his hand going reflexively to the
sword that wasn't there. Dimly he remembered struggling with it in the water,
its weight dragging him down. Cursing himself for not setting Riverwind to
guard the door, he could do nothing now but stare at the red-robed man who
stood framed in its opening.
"Hello," the man said pleasantly, speaking Common.
The red robes brought Raistlin's image back to Tanis with such force that the
half-elf's vision blurred. For a moment he thought it was Raistlin. Then he
saw clearly. This mage was older-much older, and his face was kind.
"Where are we?" Tanis demanded harshly. "Who are you? Why were we brought
here?"
"KreeaQUEKH' the man said in disgust. Turning, he walked away.
"Damn!" Tanis jumped forward, intent on grabbing the man and dragging him
back. But he felt a firm hand on his shoulder.
"Wait," Riverwind counseled. "Calm down, Tanis. He's a magic-user. You
couldn't fight him even if you had a sword. We'll follow him, see where he
goes. If he laid a spell on this place, perhaps he'll have to lift it to get
out himself."
Tanis drew a deep breath. "You're right, of course." He gasped for air. "I'm
sorry. I don't know what's wrong with me. I feel tight and stretched, like the
skin over a drum. We'll follow him. Goldmoon, you stay here with Berem-"
"No!" Berem shouted. Throwing himself out of the chair, he clutched at Tanis
with such force he nearly knocked him down. "Don't leave me here! Don't!"
"We're not going to leave you!" Tanis said, trying to extricate himself from
Berem's deathlike grip. "Oh, all right. Maybe we'd all better stay together
anyway."
Hurrying out into the narrow corridor, they started down the bleak, deserted
hallway.
"There he goes!" Riverwind pointed.
In the dim light, they could just see a bit of red robe whisking around a
corner. Walking softly, they followed after it. The hallway led down another
hallway with other rooms branching off it.
"This was never here before!" Riverwind exclaimed. "There was always solid
wall."
"Solid illusion," Tanis muttered. Stepping into the hallway, they looked
around curiously. Rooms filled with the same ancient, mismatched furniture as
in their room opened from the empty corridor. These rooms, too, were empty,
but all lit with the same strange glowing lights. Perhaps it was an inn. If
so, they appeared to be its only customers and might have been its only
customers for a hundred years.
They made their way through broken corridors and vast pillared halls. There
wasn't time to investigate their surroundings, not while trailing the
red-robed man, who was proving remarkably quick and elusive. Twice they
thought they had lost him, only to catch a glimpse of the red robes floating
down a circular stairway beneath them, or flitting through an adjacent
hallway.
It was at one such juncture that they stood for a moment, glancing down two
divergent hallways, feeling lost and frustrated.
"Split up," Tanis said after a moment. "But don't go far. We'll meet back
here. If you see any sign of him, Riverwind, whistle once. I'll do the same."
Nodding, the Plainsman and Goldmoon slipped down one hallway while Tanis-with
Berem practically tripping on his heels-searched the other one.
He found nothing. The hallway led to a large room, eerily lit as was
everything else in this strange place. Should he look in it or turn back?
After hesitating a moment, Tanis decided to take a quick glance inside. The
room was empty, except for a huge round table. And on the table, he saw as he
drew closer, was a remarkable map!
Tanis bent quickly over the map, hoping for a clue as to where and what this
mysterious place was. The map was a miniature replica of the city! Protected
by a dome of clear crystal, it was so exact in detail that Tanis had the
strange feeling the city beneath the crystal was more real than the one where
he stood.
"Too bad Tas isn't here," he thought to himself wistfully, picturing the
kender's delight.
The buildings were constructed in the ancient style; delicate spires rose into
the crystal sky, light sparkled off the white domes. Stone archways spanned
garden boulevards. The streets were laid out like a great spider web, leading
directly into the heart of the city itself.
Tanis felt Berem pluck nervously at his sleeve, gesturing that they should
leave. Even though he could talk, it was obvious that the man had grown
accustomed to, and perhaps even preferred, silence.
"Yes, just a moment," Tanis said, reluctant to go. He had heard nothing from
Riverwind and there was every possibility this map might lead them out of this
place.
Bending over the glass, he stared at the miniature more closely. Around the
center of the city stood great pavilions and columned palaces. Domes made of
glass cradled summer flowers amid the winter snows. In the exact center of the
city itself rose a building that seemed familiar to Tanis, though he knew he
had never been in this city in his life. Still, he recognized it. Even as he
studied it, searching his memory, the hair prickled on the back of his neck.
It seemed to be a temple to the gods. And it was the most beautiful structure
he had ever seen, more beautiful than the Towers of the Sun and the Stars in
the elven kingdoms. Seven towers rose to the heavens as if praising the gods
for their creation. The center tower soared into the skies far above the rest,
as if it did not praise the gods, but rivaled them. Confused memories of his
elven teachers came back to him, telling him stories of the Cataclysm, stories
of the Kingpriest-
Tanis drew back from the miniature, his breath catching in his throat. Berem
stared at him in alarm, the man's face going white.
"What is it?" he croaked in fear, clutching at Tanis.
The half-elf shook his head. He could not speak. The terrible implications of
where they were and what was going on were breaking over him like red waters
of the Blood Sea.
In confusion, Berem looked at the center of the map. The man's eyes widened,
then he shrieked, a scream unlike any Tanis had heard before. Suddenly Berem
threw himself bodily upon the crystal dome, beating at it as if he would tear
it apart.
"The City of Damnation!" Berem moaned. "The City of Damnation."
Tanis started forward to calm him, then he heard Riverwind's shrill whistle.
Grabbing Berem, Tanis hauled him away from the crystal. "I know," he said.
"Come on, we've got to get out of here."
But how? How did you get out of a city that was supposed to have been blasted
off the face of Krynn? How did you get out of a city that must lie at the very
bottom of the Blood Sea?
As he shoved Berem through the door of the map room. Tanis glanced above the
doorway. Words were carved in its crumbling marble. Words that had once spoken
of one of the wonders of the world. Words whose letters were now cracked and
covered with moss. But he could read them.
Welcome, O noble visitor, to our beautiful city.
Welcome to the city beloved of the gods.
Welcome, honored guest, to
Istar.

15
"I killed him once..."

"I've seen what you're doing to him! You're trying to murder him!" Caramon
shouted at Par-Salian. Head of the Tower of High Sorcery-the last Tower of
High Sorcery, located in the weird, alien forests of Wayreth- Par-Salian was
the highest ranking in the Order of magic-users currently living on Krynn.
To the twenty-year-old warrior, the withered old man in the snowy white robes
was a thing he might have broken with his bare hands. The young warrior had
put up with a good deal the last two days, but now his patience had run out.
"We are not in the business of murder," Par-Salian said in his soft voice.
"Your brother knew what he faced when he agreed to undergo these Trials. He
knew death was the penalty for failure."
"He didn't, not really," Caramon mumbled, brushing his hand across his eyes,
"Or if he did, he didn't care. Sometimes his . . . his love for his magic
clouds his thinking."
"Love? No." Par-Salian smiled sadly. "I do not think we could call it love."
"Well, whatever," Caramon muttered. "He didn't realize what you were going to
do to him! It's all so damn serious-"
"Of course," Par-Salian said mildly. "What would happen to you, warrior, if
you went into battle without knowing how to use your sword?"
Caramon scowled. "Don't try to weasel out-"
"What would happen?" Par-Salian persisted.
"I'd be killed," Caramon said with the elaborate patience one uses when
speaking to an elderly person who is growing a bit childish. "Now-"
"Not only would you die," Par-Salian continued, "but your comrades, those who
depend on you, might they also die because of your incompetence?"
"Yes," Caramon said impatiently, starting to continue his tirade. Then,
pausing, he fell silent.
"You see my point," Par-Salian said gently. "We do not require this Test of
all who would use magic. There are many with the gift who go through life,
content with using the first elementary spells taught by the schools. These
are enough to help them in their day-to-day lives, and that is all they want.
But sometimes there comes a person like your brother. To him, the gift is more
than a tool to help him through life. To him, the gift is life. He aspires
higher. He seeks knowledge and power that can be dangerous-not only to the
user but to those around him as well. Therefore we force all magic-users who
would enter into those realms where true power can be attained to take the
Test, to submit themselves to the Trials. Thus we weed out the incompetent..."
"You've done your best to weed out Raistlin!" Caramon snarled. "He's not
incompetent, but he's frail and now he's hurt, maybe dying!"
"No, he isn't incompetent. Quite the contrary. Your brother has done very
well, warrior. He has defeated all of his enemies. He has handled himself like
a true professional. Almost too professional." Par-Salian appeared thoughtful.
"I wonder if someone hasn't taken an interest in your brother."
"I wouldn't know." Caramon's voice hardened with resolve. "And I don't care.
All I know is that I am putting a stop to it. Right now."
"You cannot. You will not be permitted. He isn't dying-"
"You can't stop me!" Caramon stated coldly. "Magic! Tricks to keep kids
amused! True power! Bah! It's not worth getting killed over-"
"Your brother believes it is," Par-Salian said softly. "Shall I show you how
much he believes in his magic? Shall I show you true power?"
Ignoring Par-Salian, Caramon took a step forward, determined to end his
brother's suffering. That step was his last-at least for some time. He found
himself immobilized, frozen in place as surely as if his feet were encased in
ice. Fear gripped Caramon. It was the first time he had ever been spellbound,
and the helpless feeling of being totally under another's control was more
terrifying than facing six axe-wielding goblins.
"Watch." Par-Salian began to chant strange words. "I am going to show you a
vision of what might have been..."
Suddenly Caramon saw himself entering the Tower of High Sorcery! He blinked in
astonishment. He was walking through the doors and down the eerie corridors!
The image was so real that Caramon looked down at his own body in alarm,
half-afraid he might find he wasn't really there. But he was. He seemed to be
in two places at the same time. True power. The warrior began to sweat, then
shivered with a chill.
Caramon-the Caramon in the Tower-was searching for his brother. Up and down
empty corridors he wandered, calling Raistlin's name. And finally he found
him.
The young mage lay on the cold stone floor. Blood trickled from his mouth.
Near him was the body of a dark elf, dead-by Raistlin's magic. But the cost
had been terrible. The young mage himself seemed near death.
Caramon ran to his brother and lifted the frail body in his strong arms.
Ignoring Raistlin's frantic pleas to leave him alone, the warrior began to
carry his twin from this evil Tower. He would take Raistlin from this place if
it was the last thing he did.
But-just as they came near the door that led out of the Tower-a wraith
appeared before them. Another test, Caramon thought grimly. Well this will be
one test Raistlin won't have to handle. Gently laying his brother down, the
warrior turned to meet this final challenge.
What happened then made no sense. The watching Caramon blinked in
astonishment. He saw himself cast a magic spell. Dropping his sword, he held
strange objects in his hands and began to speak words he didn't understand!
Lightning bolts shot from his hands! The wraith vanished with a shriek.
The real Caramon looked wildly at Par-Salian, but the mage only shook his head
and-wordlessly-pointed back to the image that wavered before Caramon's eyes.
Frightened and confused, Caramon turned back to watch.
He saw Raistlin rise slowly.
"How did you do that?" Raistlin asked, propping himself up against the wall.
Caramon didn't know. How could he do something that took his brother years of
study! But the warrior saw himself rattling off a glib explanation. Caramon
also saw the look of pain and anguish on his brother's face.
"No, Raistlin!" the real Caramon cried. "It's a trick! A trick of this old
man's! I can't do that! I'd never steal your magic from you! Never!"
But the image Caramon-swaggering and brash-went over to "rescue" his "little"
brother, to save him from himself.
Raising his hands, Raistlin held them out toward his brother. But not to
embrace him. No. The young mage, sick and injured and totally consumed with
jealousy, began to speak the words of the one spell, the last spell he had
strength to cast.
Flames flared from Raistlin's hands. The magical fire billowed forth-and
engulfed his brother.
Caramon watched in horror, too stunned to speak, as his own image was consumed
in fire... .He watched as his brother collapsed onto the cold stone floor.
"No! Raist-"
Cool, gentle hands touched his face. He could hear voices, but their words
were meaningless. He could understand, if he chose. But he didn't want to
understand. His eyes were closed. He could open them, but he refused. Opening
his eyes, hearing those words, would only make the pain real.
"I must rest," Caramon heard himself say, and he sank back into darkness.
He was approaching another Tower, a different Tower. The Tower of the Stars in
Silvanesti. Once more Raistlin was with him, only now his brother wore the
Black Robes. And now it was Raistlin's turn to help Caramon. The big warrior
was wounded. Blood pulsed steadily from a spear-wound that had nearly taken
off his arm.
"I must rest," Caramon said again.
Gently Raistlin laid him down, making him comfortable, his back propped up
against the cold stone of the Tower. And then Raistlin started to leave.
"Raist! Don't-" Caramon cried. "You can't leave me here!"
Looking around, the injured, defenseless warrior saw hordes of the undead
elves who had attacked them in Silvanesti waiting to leap upon him. Only one
thing held them back, his brother's magical power.
"Raist! Don't leave me!" he screamed.
"How does it feel to be weak and alone?" Raistlin asked him softly.
"Raist, My brother..."
"I killed him once, Tanis, I can do it again!"
"Raist! No! Raist!"
"Caramon, please..." Another voice. This one gentle. Soft hands touched him.
"Caramon, please! Wake up! Come back, Caramon. Come back to me. I need you."
No! Caramon pushed away that voice. He pushed away the soft hands. No, I don't
want to come back. I won't. I'm tired. I hurt. I want to rest.
But the hands, the voice, wouldn't let him rest. They grabbed him, pulling him
from the depths where he longed to sink.
And now he was falling, falling into a horrible red darkness. Skeletal fingers
clutched at him, eyeless heads whirled past him, their mouths gaping in silent
cries. He drew a breath, then sank into blood. Struggling, smothering, he
finally fought his way back to the surface and gasped for air once more.
Raistlin! But no, he's gone. His friends. Tanis. Gone, too. He saw him swept
away. The ship. Gone. Cracked in half. Sailors cut apart, their blood mingling
with the blood-red sea.
Tika! She was near him. He pulled her close. She was gasping for air. But he
could not hold onto her. The swirling water tore her from his arms and swept
him under. This time he could not find the surface. His lungs were on fire,
bursting. Death...rest... sweet, warm...
But always those hands! Dragging him back to the gruesome surface. Making him
breathe the burning air. No, let me go!
And then other hands, rising up from the blood-red water. Firm hands, they
took him down from the surface. He fell down . . . down . . . into merciful
darkness. Whispered words of magic soothed him, he breathed... breathed
water... and his eyes closed... the water was warm and comforting... He was a
child once more.
But not complete. His twin was missing.
No! Waking was agony. Let him float in that dark dream forever. Better than
the sharp, bitter pain.
But the hands tugged at him. The voice called to him.
"Caramon, I need you..."
Tika.

"I'm no cleric, but I believe he'll be all right now. Let him sleep awhile."
Tika brushed away her tears quickly, trying to appear strong and in control.
"What... what was wrong?" she made herself ask calmly, though she was unable
to restrain a shudder. "Was he hurt when the ship . . . went into th-the
whirlpool. He's been like this for days! Ever since you found us."
"No, I don't think so. If he had been injured, the sea elves would have healed
him. This was something within himself. Who is this 'Raist' he talks about?"
"His twin brother," Tika said hesitantly.
"What happened? Did he die?"
"No-no. I-I'm not quite sure what happened. Caramon loved his brother very
much and he ... Raistlin betrayed him."
"I see." The man nodded solemnly. "It happens, up there. And you wonder why I
choose to live down here."
"You saved his life!" Tika said. "And I don't know you . . . your name."
"Zebulah," the man answered, smiling. "And I didn't save his life. He came
back for love of you."
Tika lowered her head, her red curls hid her face. "I hope so," she whispered.
"I love him so much. I would die myself, if it would save him."
Now that she was certain Caramon would be all right, Tika focused her
attention on this strange man. She saw he was middle-aged, clean-shaven, his
eyes as wide and frank as his smile. Human, he was dressed in red robes.
Pouches dangled from his belt.
"You're a magic-user," Tika said suddenly. "Like Raistlin!"
"Ah, that explains it." Zebulah smiled. "Seeing me, in his semi-conscious
state, made this young man think of his brother."
"But what are you doing here?" Tika glanced around at her strange
surroundings, seeing them for the first time.
She had seen them, of course, when the man brought her here, but she hadn't
noticed them in her worry. Now she realized she was in a chamber of a ruined,
crumbling building. The air was warm and stifling. Plants grew lustily in the
moist air.
There was some furniture, but it was as ancient and ruined as the room in
which it was haphazardly placed. Caramon lay on a three-legged bed-the fourth
corner being held up by a stack of old, moss-covered books. Thin rivulets of
water, like small, glistening snakes, trickled down a stone wall that gleamed
with moisture. Everything gleamed with moisture, in fact, reflecting the pale,
eerie, green light that glowed from the moss growing on the wall. The moss was
everywhere, of every different color and variety. Deep green, golden yellow,
coral red-it climbed the walls and crawled across the domed ceiling.
"What am I doing here?" she murmured. "And where is here?"
"Here is- Well, I suppose you could say here" Zebulah answered pleasantly.
"The sea elves saved you from drowning and I brought you here."
"Sea elves? I never heard of sea elves," Tika said, glancing around curiously,
as if she might see one hiding in a closet. "And I don't remember elves saving
me. All I remember is some sort of huge, gentle fish..."
"Oh, you needn't look around for the sea elves. You won't see them. They fear
and distrust KreeaQUEKH- 'air-breathers' in their language. And those fish
were the sea elves, in the only shape they let KreeaQUEKH see them. Dolphins,
you call them."
Caramon stirred and moaned in his sleep. Laying her hand upon his forehead,
Tika brushed back his damp hair, soothing him.
"Why did they save our lives, then?" she asked.
"Do you know any elves, land elves?" Zebulah asked.
"Yes," Tika answered softly, thinking of Laurana.
"Then you know that to all elves, life is sacred."
"I understand." Tika nodded. "And like the land elves, they renounce the world
rather than help it."
"They are doing what they can to help," Zebulah rebuked her severely. "Do not
criticize what you do not understand, young woman."
"I'm sorry," Tika said, flushing. She changed the subject. "But you, you're
human. Why-"
"Why am I here? I have neither the time nor the inclination to relate my story
to you, for it is obvious you would not understand me either. None of the
others do."
Tika caught her breath. "There are others? Have you seen any more from our
ship... our friends?"
Zebulah shrugged. "There are always others down here. The ruins are vast, and
many hold small pockets of air. We take those we rescue to the nearest
dwellings. As for your friends, I couldn't say. If they were on the ship with
you, they were most likely lost. The sea elves have given the dead the proper
rituals and sent their souls upon their way." Zebulah stood up. "I'm glad your
young man survived. There's lots of food around Here. Most of the plants you
see are edible. Wander about the ruins if you like. I've laid a magic spell on
them so you can't get into the sea and drown. Fix the place up. You'll find
more furniture-"
"But wait!" Tika cried. "We can't stay here! We must return to the surface.
Surely there must be some way out?"
"They all ask me that," Zebulah said with a touch of impatience. "And,
frankly, I agree. There must be some way out. People seem to find it on
occasion. Then, there are those who simply decide that-like me-they don't want
to leave. I have several old friends who have been around for years. But, see
for yourself. Look around. Just be careful you stay in the parts of the ruins
we've arranged." He turned toward the door.
"Wait! Don't go!" Jumping up, tipping over the rickety chair she sat upon,
Tika ran after the red-robed magic-user. "You might see my friends. You could
tell them-"
"Oh, I doubt it," Zebulah replied. "To tell you the truth-and no offense,
young woman-I'm fed up with your conversation. The longer I live here, the
more KreeaQUEKH like you irritate me. Always in a hurry. Never satisfied to
stay in one place. You and your young man would be much happier down here in
this world than up there in that one. But no, you'll kill yourselves trying to
find your way back. And what do you face up there? Betrayal!" He glanced back
at Caramon.
"There is a war up there!" Tika cried passionately. "People are suffering.
Don't you care about that?"
"People are always suffering up there," Zebulah said. "Nothing I can do about
it. No, I don't care. After all, where does caring get you? Where did it get
him?" With an angry gesture at Caramon, Zebulah turned and left, slamming the
ramshackle door behind him.
Tika stared after the man uncertainly, wondering if she shouldn't run out and
grab him and hang onto him. He was apparently their only link to the world up
there. Wherever down here was...
"Tika..."
"Caramon!" Forgetting Zebulah, Tika ran to the warrior, who was struggling to
sit up.
"Where in the name of the Abyss are we?" he asked, looking around with wide
eyes. "What happened? The ship-"
"I'm-I'm not sure," Tika faltered. "Do you feel well enough to sit? Perhaps
you should lie down..."
"I'm all right," Caramon snapped. Then, feeling her flinch at his harshness,
he reached out and pulled her in his arms. "I'm sorry, Tika. Forgive me. It's
just... I..." He shook his head.
"I understand," Tika said softly. Resting her head on his chest, she told him
about Zebulah and the sea elves. Caramon listened, blinking in confusion as he
slowly absorbed all he heard. Scowling, he looked at the door.
"I wish I'd been conscious," he muttered. 'That Zebulah character knows the
way out, more than likely. I'd have made him show us."
"I'm not so sure," Tika said dubiously. "He's a magic-user like-" She broke
off hurriedly. Seeing the pain in Caramon's face, she nestled closer to him,
reaching up to stroke his face.
"Do you know, Caramon," she said softly, "he's right in a way. We could be
happy here. Do you realize, this is the first time we've ever been alone. I
mean really and truly alone together? And it's so still and peaceful and
beautiful in a way. The glowing light from the moss is so soft and eerie, not
harsh and glaring like sunlight. And listen to the water murmuring, its
singing to us. Then there's this old, old furniture, and this funny bed..."
Tika stopped talking. She felt Caramon's arms tighten around her. His lips
brushed her hair. Her love for him surged through her, making her heart stand
still with pain and longing. Swiftly she put her arms around him, holding him
close, feeling his heart beat against hers.
"Oh, Caramon!" she whispered breathlessly. "Let's be happy! Please! I-I know
that-that sometime we'll have to leave. We'll have to find the others and
return to the world above. But for now, let's be alone-together!"
"Tika!" Caramon clasped her, crushing her to him as if he would mold their
bodies into one, single, living being. "Tika, I love you! I-I told you once
that I couldn't make you mine until I could commit myself to you completely. I
can't do that-not yet."
"Yes, you can!" Tika said fiercely. Pushing away from him, she looked into his
eyes. "Raistlin's gone, Caramon! You can make your own life!"
Caramon shook his head gently. "Raistlin's still a part of me. He always will
be, just as I'll always be a part of him. Can you understand?"
No, she couldn't, but she nodded anyway, her head drooping.
Smiling, Caramon drew a quivering breath. Then he put his hand beneath her
chin and raised her head. Her eyes were beautiful, he thought. Green with
flecks of brown. They shimmered now with tears. Her skin was tan from living
outdoors and more freckled than ever. Those freckles embarrassed her. Tika
would have given seven years of her life for creamy skin like Laurana's. But
Caramon loved every freckle, he loved the crisp, curling red hair that clung
to his hands.
Tika saw the love in his eyes. She caught her breath. He drew her near. His
heart beating faster, he whispered, "I'll give you what I can of myself, Tika,
if you'll settle for that. I wish, for your sake, it was more."
"I love you!" was all she said, clasping him around the neck.
He wanted to be certain she understood. "Tika-" he began.
"Hush, Caramon . . ."

16
Apoletta.

After a long chase through the streets of a city whose crumbling beauty seemed
a horror to Tanis, they entered one of the lovely palaces in the center.
Running through a dead garden and into a hall, they rounded a corner and came
to a halt. The red-robed man was nowhere to be seen.
"Stairs!" Riverwind said suddenly. His own eyes growing accustomed to the
strange light, Tanis saw they were standing at the top of a flight of marble
stairs that descended so steeply they had lost sight of their quarry. Hurrying
to the landing, they could once more see the red robes fluttering down them.
"Keep in the shadows near the wall," Riverwind cautioned, motioning them to
the side of the stairway that was big enough for fifty men to walk down it
abreast.
Faded and cracked murals on the walls were still so exquisite and life-like
that Tanis had the fevered impression the people portrayed there were more
alive than he was. Perhaps some of them had been standing in this very spot
when the fiery mountain struck the Temple of the Kingpriest... Putting the
thought out of his mind, Tanis kept going.
After running down about twenty steps, they came to a broad landing, decorated
with life-size statues of silver and gold. From here, the stairs continued
down, leading to another landing, leading to more steps, and so on until they
were all exhausted and breathless. Still the red robes fluttered ahead of
them.
Suddenly Tanis noticed a change in the air. It was becoming more humid, the
smell of the sea was strong. Listening, he could hear the faint sounds of
water lapping against stone. He felt Riverwind touch his arm, pulling him back
into the shadows. They were near the bottom of the steps. The red-robed man
was in front of them, standing at the very bottom, peering into a pool of dark
water that stretched out before him into a vast, shadowy cavern.
The red-robed man knelt by the side of the water. And then Tanis was aware of
another figure; this one in the water! He could see hair shining in the
torchlight-it had a faint greenish cast. Two slender white arms rested on the
stone steps, the rest of the figure was submerged. The figure's head lay
cradled on its arms, in a state of complete relaxation. The red-robed man
reached out a hand and gently touched the figure in the water. The figure
raised its head.
"I have been waiting," a woman's voice said, sounding reproachful.
Tanis gasped. The woman spoke elven! Now he could see her face, the large,
luminous eyes, pointed ears, delicate features....
A sea elf!
Confused tales from his childhood came back to Tanis as he tried to follow the
conversation of the red-robed man and the elven woman, who was smiling at him
fondly.
"I'm sorry, beloved," the red-robed man said soothingly, in elven, sitting
down beside her. "I went to see how the young man you were concerned about was
doing. He'll be all right, now. It was a close one, though. You were correct.
He was certainly intent on dying. Something about his brother-a
magic-user-betraying him."
"Caramon!" Tanis murmured. Riverwind looked at him questioningly. The
Plainsman could not, of course, follow the elven conversation. Tanis shook his
head, not wanting to miss what else was said.
"QueaKI'ICHKeecx" said the woman in scorn. Tanis was puzzled, that word was
certainly not elven!
"Yes!" The man frowned. "After I made sure those two were safe, I went to see
some of the others. One of them-a bearded fellow, a half-elf, leaped at me as
if he would swallow me whole! The others we managed to save are doing well."
"We laid out the dead with ceremony," said the woman, and Tanis could hear the
ages-old sorrow in her voice, the sorrow of the elves for the loss of life.
"I would have liked to ask them what they were doing in the Blood Sea of
Istar. I've never known a ship's captain foolish enough to dare the maelstrom.
The girl told me there's war going on above. Maybe they had no choice."
The elven woman playfully splashed water on the red-robed man. "There's always
war going on above! You are too curious, my beloved. Sometimes I think you
might leave me and return to your world. Especially after you talk with these
KreeaQUEKH."
Tanis heard a note of true concern in the woman's voice, though she was still
playfully splashing the man.
The red-robed man leaned down and kissed her on the wet, greenish hair shining
in the light of the sputtering torch on the wall above them. "No, Apoletta.
Let them have their wars and their brothers who betray brothers. Let them have
their impetuous half-elves and their foolish sea captains. As long as my magic
serves me, I will live below the waves-"
"Speaking of impetuous half-elves," Tanis interrupted in elven as he strode
rapidly down the stairs. Riverwind, Gold-moon, and Berem followed, though they
had no idea what was being said.
The man turned his head in alarm. The elven woman disappeared into the water
so swiftly that Tanis wondered for a moment if he might have imagined her
existence. Not a ripple on the dark surface betrayed where she had been.
Reaching the bottom of the steps, Tanis caught hold of the magic-user's hand
just as he was about to follow the sea elf into the water.
"Wait! I'm not going to swallow you!" Tanis pleaded. "I'm sorry I acted the
way I did back there. I know this looks bad, sneaking around after you like
this. But we had no choice! I know I can't stop you if you're going to cast a
spell or something. I know you could engulf me in flames or put me to sleep or
wrap me in cobweb or a hundred other things. I've been around magic-users. But
won't you please listen to us? Please help us. I heard you talking about two
of our friends-a big man and a pretty red-haired girl. You said the man nearly
died-his brother betrayed him. We want to find them. Won't you tell us where
they are?"
The man hesitated.
Tanis went on hurriedly, losing coherence in his efforts to keep hold of this
man who might be able to help them. "I saw the woman here with you. I heard
her speak. I know who she is. A sea elf, isn't she? You are right. I am
half-elven. But I was raised among the elves, and I've heard their legends. I
thought that's all they were, legends. But then I thought dragons were
legends, too. There is a war being fought in the world above. And you're
right. There always seems to be a war being fought somewhere. But this war
won't stay up above. If the Queen of Darkness conquers, you can be certain
she'll find out the sea elves are down here. I don't know if there are dragons
below the ocean, but-"
"There are sea dragons, half-elf," said a voice, and the elven woman
reappeared in the water once more. Moving with a flash of silver and green,
she glided through the dark sea until she reached the stone steps. Then,
resting her arms on them, she gazed up at him with brilliant green eyes. "And
we have heard rumors of their return. We did not believe them, though. We did
not know the dragons had awakened. Whose fault was that?"
"Does it matter?" asked Tanis wearily. "They have destroyed the ancient
homeland. Silvanesti is a land of nightmares now. The Qualinesti were driven
from their homes. The dragons are killing, burning. Nothing, no one is safe.
The Dark Queen has one purpose-to gain dominance over every living being. Will
you be safe? Even down here? For I presume we are below the sea?"
"You are right, half-elf," said the red-robed man, sighing.
"You are below the sea, in the ruins of the city of Istar. The sea elves saved
you and brought you here, as they bring all those whose ships are wrecked. I
know where your friends are and I can take you there. Beyond that, I don't see
what more I can do for you."
"Get us out of here," Riverwind said flatly, understanding the conversation
for the first time. Zebulah had spoken in Common. "Who is this woman, Tanis?
She looks elven."
"She is a sea elf. Her name is . . ." Tanis stopped.
"Apoletta," said the elven woman, smiling. "Forgive me for not extending a
formal greeting, but we do not clothe our bodies as do you KreeaQUEKH. Even
after all these years, I cannot persuade my husband to quit covering his body
in those ridiculous robes when he goes onto the land. Modesty, he calls it. So
I will not embarrass either you or him by getting out of the water to greet
you as is proper."
Flushing, Tanis translated the elven woman's words to his friends. Goldmoon's
eyes widened. Berem did not seem to hear, he was lost in some sort of inner
dream, only vaguely aware of what was happening around him. Riverwind's
expression did not change. Apparently nothing he heard about elves could
surprise him anymore.
"Anyway, the sea elves are the ones who rescued us," Tanis went on. "Like all
elves, they consider life sacred and will help anyone lost at sea or drowning.
This man, her husband-"
"Zebulah," he said, extending his hand.
"I am Tanis Half-Elven, Riverwind and Goldmoon of the Que-shu tribe, and
Berem, uh-" Tanis faltered and fell silent, not quite knowing where to go from
here.
Apoletta smiled politely, but her smile quickly faded. "Zebulah," she said,
"find the friends the half-elf speaks of and bring them back here."
"We should go with you," Tanis offered. "If you thought I was going to swallow
you, there's no telling what Caramon might do-"
"No," said Apoletta, shaking her head. The water glistened on her hair and
sparkled on her smooth green-tinged skin. "Send the barbarians, half-elf. You
stay here. I would talk with you and learn more of this war you say could
endanger us. It saddens me to hear the dragons have awakened. If that is true,
I fear you might be right. Our world will no longer be safe."
"I will be back soon, beloved," Zebulah said.
Apoletta reached out her hand to her husband. Taking it, he raised it to his
lips, kissing it gently. Then he left. Tanis quickly translated for Riverwind
and Goldmoon, who readily agreed to go in search of Caramon and Tika.
As they followed Zebulah back through the eerie, broken streets, he told them
tales of the fall of Istar, pointing out various landmarks as they went along.
"You see-" he explained, "when the gods hurled the fiery mountain onto Krynn,
it struck Istar, forming a giant crater in the land. The seawater rushed in to
fill up the void, creating what came to be known as the Blood Sea. Many of the
buildings in Istar were destroyed, but some survived and, here and there,
retained small pockets of air. The sea elves discovered that this was an
excellent place to bring mariners they rescued from capsized ships- Most of
them soon feel quite at home."
The mage spoke with a hint of pride, which Goldmoon found amusing, though she
kindly did not allow her amusement to show. It was the pride of ownership, as
if the ruins belonged to Zebulah and he had arranged to display them for the
public's enjoyment.
"But you are human. You are not a sea elf. How did you come to live here?"
Goldmoon asked.
The magic-user smiled, his eyes looking back across the years. "I was young
and greedy," he said softly, "always in hopes of finding a quick way to make
my fortune. My magic arts took me down into the depths of the ocean, searching
for the lost wealth of Istar. I found riches all right, but not gold or
silver.
"One evening I saw Apoletta, swimming among the sea forests. I saw her before
she saw me, before she could change her shape. I fell in love with her... and
long I worked to make her mine. She could not live up above and, after I had
existed so long in the peace and tranquil beauty down here, I knew I no longer
had a life in the world above either. But I enjoy talking to your kind
occasionally, so I wander among the ruins now and then, to see who the elves
have brought in."
Goldmoon looked around the ruins as Zebulah paused to catch his breath between
stories. "Where is the fabled temple of the Kingpriest?" she asked.
A shadow passed over the mage's face. The look of pleasure he had worn was
replaced by an expression of deep sorrow tinged with anger.
"I'm sorry," Goldmoon said quickly. "I did not mean to cause you pain..."
"No, it's all right," Zebulah said with a brief, sad smile. "In fact, it is
good for me to remember the darkness of that dreadful time. I tend to
forget-in my daily ramblings here-that this used to be a city of laughing,
crying, living, and breathing beings. Children played in these streets-they
were playing that terrible evening when the gods cast the fiery mountain
down."
He was silent for a moment then, with a sigh, continued.
"You ask where the temple stands. It stands no longer. In the place where the
Kingpriest stood, shouting his arrogant demands to the gods, there is a dark
pit. Although it is filled with seawater, nothing lives within it. None know
its depth, for the sea elves will not venture near it. I have looked into its
dark, still waters as long as I could bear the terror, and I do not believe
there is an end to its darkness. It is as deep as the heart of evil itself."
Zebulah stopped in one of the sea-dark streets and peered at Goldmoon
intently. "The guilty were punished. But why the innocent? Why did they have
to suffer? You wear the medallion of Mishakal the Healer. Do you understand?
Did the goddess explain it to you?"
Goldmoon hesitated, startled by the question, searching within her soul for
the answer. Riverwind stood beside her, stern and silent as always, his
thoughts hidden.
"Often I myself have questioned," Goldmoon faltered. Moving nearer Riverwind,
she touched his arm with her hand as though to reassure herself he was near.
"In a dream, once, I was punished for my questioning, for my lack of faith.
Punished by losing the one I love." Riverwind put his strong arm around her
and held her close. "But whenever I feel ashamed of my questioning, I am
reminded that it was my questioning that led me to find the ancient gods."
She was silent a moment. Riverwind stroked her silver-gold hair and she
glanced up at him with a smile. "No," she said softly to Zebulah, "I do not
have the answer to this great riddle. I still question. I still burn with
anger when I see the innocent suffer and the guilty rewarded. But I know now
that my anger can be as a forging fire. In its heat, the raw lump of iron that
is my spirit is tempered and shaped to form the shining rod of steel that is
my faith. That rod supports my weak flesh."
Zebulah studied Goldmoon silently as she stood amid the ruins of Istar, her
silver-golden hair shining like the sunlight that would never touch the
crushed buildings. The classic beauty of her face was marked by the effects of
the dark roads she had traveled. Far from marring that beauty, the lines of
suffering and despair had refined it. There was wisdom in her eyes, enhanced
now by the great joy that came from the knowledge of the new life she carried
within her body.
The mage's gaze went to the man who held the woman so tenderly. His face, too,
bore the marks of the long, tortuous path he had walked. Although stern and
stoic that face would always be, his deep love for this woman showed clearly
in the man's dark eyes and the gentleness of his touch.
Perhaps I have made a mistake staying beneath the waters so long, Zebulah
thought, suddenly feeling very old and sad. Perhaps I could have helped, if I
had stayed above and used my anger as these two used theirs-to help them find
answers. Instead, I let my anger gnaw at my soul until it seemed easiest to
hide it down here.
"We should delay no longer," said Riverwind abruptly. "Caramon will soon get
it into his head to come looking for us, if he has not already."
"Yes," said Zebulah, clearing his throat. "We should go, although I do not
think the young man and woman will have left. He was very weak-"
"Was he injured?" Goldmoon asked in concern.
"Not in body," Zebulah replied as they entered a tumbledown building on a
crumbling side-street. "But he has been injured in his soul. I could see that
even before the girl told me about his twin brother."
A dark line appeared between Goldmoon's finely drawn brows, her lips
tightened.
"Pardon me. Lady of the Plains," Zebulah said with a slight smile, "but I see
that forging fire you spoke of blaze in your eyes."
Goldmoon flushed. "I told you I was still weak. I should be able to accept
Raistlin and what he did to his brother without questioning. I should have
faith that it is all part of the greater good I cannot envision. But I'm
afraid 1 can't. All I can do is pray that the gods keep him out of my path."
"Not me," said Riverwind suddenly, his voice harsh. "Not me," he repeated
grimly.

Caramon lay staring into the darkness. Tika, cradled in his arms, was fast
asleep. He could feel her heart beating, he could hear her soft breathing. He
started to run his hand through the tangle of red curls that lay upon his
shoulder, but Tika stirred at his touch and he stopped, fearful of waking her.
She should rest. The gods alone knew how long she had been awake, watching
over him. She would never tell him, he knew that. When he had asked, she had
only laughed and teased him about his snoring.
But there had been a tremor in her laughter, she had been unable to look into
his eyes.
Caramon patted her shoulder reassuringly and she nestled close. He felt
comforted as he realized she slept soundly, and then he sighed. Only a few
weeks ago, he had vowed to Tika that he would never take her love unless he
could commit himself to her body and soul. He could still hear his words, "My
first commitment is to my brother. I am his strength."
Now Raistlin was gone, he had found his own strength. As he had told Caramon,
"I need you no longer."
I should be glad, Caramon told himself, staring into the darkness. I love Tika
and I have her love in return. And now we are free to express that love. I can
make that commitment to her. She can come first in all my thoughts now. She is
loving, giving. She deserves to be loved.
Raistlin never did. At least that's what they all believe. How often have I
heard Tanis ask Sturm when he thought I couldn't hear why I put up with the
sarcasm, the bitter recriminations, the imperious commands. I've seen them
look at me with pity. I know they think I'm slow-thinking sometimes and I am-
compared to Raistlin. I am the ox, lumbering along, bearing the burden without
complaint. That's what they think of me.
They don't understand. They don't need me. Even Tika doesn't need me-not like
Raist needed me. They never heard him wake screaming in the night when he was
little. We were left alone so much, he and I. There was no one there in the
darkness to hear him and comfort him but me. He could never remember those
dreams, but they were awful. His thin body shook with fear. His eyes were wild
with the sight of terrors only he could see. He clutched at me, sobbing. And
I'd tell him stories or make funny shadow-pictures on the wall to drive away
the horror.
"Look, Raist," I'd say, "bunnies . . ." and I'd hold up two fingers and wiggle
them like a rabbit's ears.
After awhile, he'd stop trembling. He wouldn't smile or laugh. He never did
either, much, even when he was little. But he would relax.
"I must sleep. I am so tired," he'd whisper, holding my hand fast. "But you
stay awake, Caramon. Guard my sleep. Keep them away. Don't let them get me."
"I'll stay awake. I won't let anything hurt you, Raist!" I'd promise.
Then he would smile-almost-and, exhausted, his eyes would close. I kept my
promise. I would stay awake while he slept. And it was funny. Maybe I did keep
them away, because as long as I was awake and watching, the nightmares never
came to him.
Even when he was older, sometimes he'd still cry out in the night and reach
out to me. And I'd be there. But what will he do now? What will he do without
me when he's alone, lost, and frightened in the darkness?
What will I do without him?
Caramon shut his eyes and, softly, fearful of waking Tika, he began to cry.

17
Unexpected help.

"And that's our story," said Tanis simply.
Apoletta had listened attentively to him, her green eyes intent upon his face.
She had not interrupted. When he was finished, she remained silent. Resting
her arms on the side of the steps leading into the still water, she seemed
lost in thought. Tanis did not disturb her. The feeling of peace and serenity
present beneath the sea soothed and comforted him. The thought of returning to
the harsh, glaring world of sunlight and blaring noise seemed suddenly
frightening. How easy it would be to ignore everything and stay here, beneath
the sea, hidden forever in this silent world.
"What about him?" she asked finally, nodding her head at Berem.
Tanis came back to reality with a sigh.
"I don't know," he said, shrugging, glancing at Berem. The man was staring
into the darkness of the cavern. His lips were moving, as if repeating a chant
over and over.
"He is the key, according to the Queen of Darkness. Find him, she said, and
victory is hers."
"Well," Apoletta said abruptly, "you've got him. Does that make victory
yours?"
Tanis blinked. The question caught him by surprise. Scratching his beard, he
pondered. It was something that had not occurred to him.
"True ... we have got him," he murmured, "but what do we do with him? What is
there about him that grants victory-to either side?"
"Doesn't he know?"
"He claims he doesn't."
Apoletta regarded Berem, frowning. "I would say he was lying," she said after
a moment, "but then he is human, and I know little of the strange workings of
the human mind. There is a way you can find out, however. Journey to the
Temple of the Dark Queen at Neraka."
"Neraka!" repeated Tanis, startled. "But that's-" He was interrupted by a cry
of such wild fear and terror that he nearly leaped into the water. His hand
went to his empty scabbard. With a curse, he whirled around expecting nothing
less than a horde of dragons.
There was only Berem, staring at him with wide eyes.
"What is it, Berem?" Tanis asked irritably. "Did you see something?"
"He didn't see anything, Half-Elf," Apoletta said, studying Berem with
interest. "He reacted that way when I said Neraka-"
"Neraka!" Berem repeated, shaking his head wildly. "Evil! Great evil! No ...
no ..."
"That's where you came from," Tanis told him, stepping nearer.
Berem shook his head firmly.
"But you told me-"
"A mistake!" Berem muttered. "I didn't mean Neraka. I m-meant. . . Takar . . .
Takar! That's what I meant. . ."
"You meant Neraka. You know the Dark Queen has her great Temple there, in
Neraka!" Apoletta said sternly.
"Does she?" Berem looked directly at her, his blue eyes wide and innocent.
"The Dark Queen, a Temple in Neraka? No, there's nothing there but a small
village. My village . . ." Suddenly he grasped his stomach and doubled over,
as if in pain. "I don't feel good. Leave me alone-" he mumbled like a child
and slumped to the marble floor near the edge of the water. Sitting there,
clutching his stomach, he stared into the darkness.
"Berem!" said Tanis in exasperation.
"Don't feel good . . ." Berem muttered sullenly.
"How old did you say he was?" Apoletta asked.
"Over three hundred years, or so he claims" Tanis said in disgust. "If you
believe only half of what he says, that cuts it down to one hundred and fifty,
which doesn't seem too plausible either, not for a human."
"You know," replied Apoletta thoughtfully, "the Queen's Temple at Neraka is a
mystery to us. It appeared suddenly, after the Cataclysm, so far as we have
been able to determine. Now we find this man who would trace his own history
to that same time and place."
"It is strange..." said Tanis, glancing again at Berem.
"Yes. It may be nothing more than coincidence, but follow coincidence far
enough and you'll find it tied to fate, so my husband says." Apoletta smiled.
"Coincidence or not, I don't see myself walking into the Temple of the Queen
of Darkness and asking why she's searching the world for a man with a green
gemstone buried in his chest," Tanis said wryly, sitting down near the water's
edge again.
"I suppose not," Apoletta admitted. "It's hard to believe though, from what
you say, that she has grown so powerful. What have the good dragons been doing
all this time?"
"Good dragons!" Tanis repeated, astounded. "What good dragons?"
Now it was Apoletta's turn to look amazed. "Why, the good dragons. The silver
dragons and gold dragons. Bronze dragons. And the dragonlances. Surely the
silver dragons gave you those that were in their keeping..."
"I never heard of silver dragons," Tanis replied, "except in some old song
about Huma. The same with dragonlances. We've been searching for them so long
without a trace, I was beginning to believe they didn't exist except in
children's stories."
"I don't like this." Apoletta rested her chin on her hands, her face drawn and
pale. "Something's wrong. Where are the good dragons? Why aren't they
fighting? At first I discounted rumors of the sea dragons' return, for I knew
the good dragons would never permit it. But if the good dragons have
disappeared, as I must believe from talking with you, Half-Elf, then I fear my
people truly are in danger." She lifted her head, listening. "Ah, good, here
comes my husband with the rest of your friends." She pushed away from the
edge. "He and I can go back to my people and discuss what we must do-"
"Wait!" Tanis said, hearing footsteps coming down the marble stairs. "You've
got to show us the way out! We can't stay here!"
"But I don't know the way out," Apoletta said, her hands making circles in the
water as she kept herself afloat. "Neither does Zebulah. It was never our
concern."
"We could wander through these ruins for weeks!" Tanis cried. "Or maybe
forever! You're not certain people do escape from this place, are you? Maybe
they just die!"
"As I said," Apoletta repeated coldly, "it was never our concern."
"Well, make it your concern!" Tanis shouted. His voice echoed back eerily
across the water. Berem looked up at him and shrank away in alarm. Apoletta's
eyes narrowed in anger. Tanis drew in a deep breath, then bit his lip,
suddenly ashamed.
"I'm sorry-" he began, but then Goldmoon came up to him, placing her hand on
his arm.
"Tanis? What is it?" she asked.
"Nothing that can be helped." Sighing, he glanced past her. "Did you find
Caramon and Tika? Are they all right?"
"Yes, we found them," Goldmoon answered, her gaze following Tanis's. Together
they watched the two come slowly down the stairs behind Riverwind and Zebulah.
Tika was staring around in wonder. Caramon, Tanis noticed, kept his eyes
focused straight ahead. Seeing the man's face, Tanis looked back at Goldmoon.
"You didn't answer my second question?" he said softly.
"Tika's all right," Goldmoon answered. "As for Caramon-" She shook her head.
Tanis looked back at Caramon and could barely restrain an exclamation of
dismay. He would not have recognized the jovial, good-natured warrior in this
man with the grim, tear-streaked face, the haunted, shadowed eyes.
Seeing Tanis's shocked look, Tika drew near Caramon and slipped her hand
through his arm. At her touch, the warrior seemed to awaken from his dark
thoughts. He smiled down at her. But there was something in Caramon's smile-a
gentleness, a sorrow-that had never been there before.
Tanis sighed again. More problems. If the ancient gods had returned, what were
they trying to do to them? See how heavy the burden could get before they
collapsed beneath it? Did they find this amusing? Trapped beneath the sea ...
Why not just give up? Why not just stay down here? Why bother searching for a
way out? Stay down here and forget everything. Forget the dragons . . . forget
Raistlin . . . forget Laurana . . . Kitiara. . . .
"Tanis..." Goldmoon shook him gently.
They were all standing around him now. Waiting for him to tell them what to
do.
Clearing his throat, he started to speak. His voice cracked and he coughed.
"You needn't look at me!" he said finally, harshly. "I don't have any answers.
We're trapped, apparently. There's no way out."
Still they watched him, with no dimming of the faith and trust in their eyes.
Tanis glared at them angrily. "Quit looking at me to lead you! I betrayed you!
Don't you realize that! It's my fault. Everything's my fault! Find someone
else-"
Turning to hide tears he could not stop, Tanis stared out across the dark
water, wrestling with himself to regain control. He did not realize, until she
spoke, that Apoletta had been watching him.
"Perhaps I can help you, after all," the sea elf said slowly.
"Apoletta, what are you saying?" Zebulah said fearfully, hurrying to the edge
of the water. "Consider-"
"I have considered," Apoletta replied. "The half-elf said we should be
concerned about what happens in the world. He is right. The same thing could
happen to us that happened to our Silvanesti cousins. They renounced the world
and allowed dark and evil things to creep into their land. We have been warned
in time. We can still fight the evil. Your coming here may have saved us,
Half-Elf," she said earnestly. "We owe you something in return."
"Help us get back to our world," Tanis said.
Apoletta nodded gravely. "I will do so. Where would you go?"
Sighing, Tanis shook his head. He couldn't think. "I suppose one place is as
good as another," he said wearily.
"Palanthas," Caramon said suddenly. His deep voice echoed across the still
water.
The others glanced at him in uncomfortable silence. Riverwind frowned darkly.
"No," said Apoletta, swimming to the edge once more, "I cannot take you to
Palanthas. Our borders extend only as far as Kalaman. Beyond that, we dare not
venture. Especially if what you say is true, for beyond Kalaman lies the
ancient home of the sea dragons."
Tanis wiped his eyes and nose, then turned back around to face his friends.
"Well? Any more suggestions?"
They were silent, watching him. Then Goldmoon stepped forward.
"Shall I tell you a story, Half-Elf?" she said, resting her gentle hand upon
his arm. "A story of a woman and man, lost and alone and frightened. Bearing a
great burden, they came to an inn. The woman sang a song, a blue crystal staff
performed a miracle, and a mob attacked them. One man stood up. One man took
charge. One man-a stranger-said, 'We'll go out through the kitchen.' " She
smiled. "Do you remember, Tanis?"
"I remember," he whispered, caught and held by her beautiful, sweet
expression.
"We're waiting, Tanis," she said simply.
Tears dimmed his vision again. Tanis blinked rapidly, then glanced around.
Riverwind's stern face was relaxed. Smiling a half-smile, he laid his hand on
Tanis's arm. Caramon hesitated a moment, then-striding forward-embraced Tanis
in one of his bear-like hugs.
"Take us to Kalaman," Tanis told Apoletta when he could breathe again. "It's
where we were headed anyway."
The companions slept at the edge of the water, getting what rest they could
before the journey, which Apoletta told them would be long and strenuous.
"How will we travel? By boat?" Tanis asked, watching as Zebulah stripped off
his red robes and dove into the water.
Apoletta glanced at her husband, treading water easily beside her. "You will
swim," she said. "Didn't you wonder how we brought you down here? Our magic
arts, and those of my husband, will give you the ability to breathe water as
easily as you now breathe air."
"You're going to turn us into fish?" Caramon asked, horrified.
"I suppose you could look at it that way," Apoletta replied. "We will come for
you at the ebb tide."
Tika clasped Caramon's hand. He held onto her tightly, and Tanis, seeing them
share a secret look between them, suddenly felt his burden lighten. Whatever
turmoil surged in Caramon's soul, he had found a strong anchor to keep him
from being swept out into dark waters.
"We'll never forget this beautiful place," Tika said softly.
Apoletta only smiled.

18
Dark tidings.

"Papa! Papa!"
"What is it. Little Rogar?" The fisherman, accustomed to the excited cries of
his small son, who was just big enough to begin discovering the wonders of the
world, did not raise his head from his work. Expecting to hear about anything
from a starfish stranded on the bank to a lost shoe found stuck in the sand,
the fisherman kept on restringing his net as the little boy dashed up to him.
"Papa," said the tow-haired child, eagerly grabbing his father's knee and
getting himself entangled in the net in the process, "a pretty lady. Drown
dead."
"Eh?" the fisherman asked absently.
"A pretty lady. Drown dead," the little boy said solemnly, pointing with a
chubby finger behind him.
The fisherman stopped his work now to stare at his son. This was something
new.
"A pretty lady? Drowned?"
The child nodded and pointed again, down the beach.
The fisherman squinted his eyes against the blazing noon sun and peered down
the shoreline. Then he looked back at his son and his brows came together in a
stern expression.
"Is this more of Little Rogar's stories?" he asked severely. "Because if it
is, you'll be taking yer dinner standing up."
The child shook his head, his eyes wide. "No," he said, rubbing his small
bottom in memory. "I promised."
The fisherman frowned, looking out to sea. There'd been a storm last night,
but he hadn't heard anything that sounded like a ship smashing up on the
rocks. Perhaps some of the town's people with their fool pleasure boats had
been out yesterday and been stranded after dark. Or worse, murder. This
wouldn't be the first body washed up ashore with a knife in its heart.
Hailing his oldest son, who was sluicing out the bottom of the dinghy, the
fisherman put his work aside and stood up. He started to send the small boy in
to his mother, then remembered he needed the child to guide them.
"Take us to the pretty lady," the fisherman said in a heavy voice, giving his
other son a meaningful glance.
Tugging his father along eagerly. Little Rogar headed back down the beach
while his parent and his older brother followed more slowly, fearing what they
might find.
They had gone only a short distance before the fisherman saw a sight that
caused him to break into a run, his older son pounding along behind.
"A shipwreck. No doubt!" the fisherman puffed. "Blasted landlubbers! Got no
business going out in those eggshell boats."
There was not just one pretty lady lying on the beach, but two. Near them were
four men. All were dressed in fine clothes. Broken timbers lay scattered
around, obviously the remains of a small pleasure craft.
"Drown dead," said the little boy, bending to pat one of the pretty ladies.
"No, they're not!" grunted the fisherman, feeling for the life-beat in the
woman's neck. One of the men was already beginning to stir-an older man,
seemingly about fifty, he sat up and stared around in confusion. Seeing the
fisherman, he started in terror and crawled over on his hands and knees to
shake one of his unconscious companions.
"Tanis, Tanis!" the man cried, rousing a bearded man, who sat up suddenly.
"Don't be afraid," the fisherman said, seeing the bearded man's alarm. "We're
going to help, if we can. Davey, run back and get yer ma. Tell her to bring
blankets and that bottle of brandy I saved from Yuletide. Here, mistress," he
said gently, helping one of the women to sit up. "Take it easy. You'll be all
right. Strange sort of business-" the fisherman muttered to himself, holding
the woman in his arms and patting her soothingly. "For being near drowned,
none of them seems to have swallowed any water..." Wrapped in blankets, the
castaways were escorted back to the fisherman's small house near the beach.
Here they were given douses of brandy and every other remedy the fisherman's
wife could think of for drowning. Little Rogar regarded them all with pride,
knowing that his "catch" would be the talk of the village for the next week.
"Thank you again for your help," Tanis said gratefully.
"Glad to be there," the man said gruffly. "Just be wary. Next time you go out
in one of them small boats, head for shore the first sign of a storm."
"Err, yes, I'll-we'll do that," Tanis said in some confusion. "Now, if you
could just tell us where we are..."
"Yer north of the city," the fisherman said, waving a hand. "About two-three
miles. Davey can give ye a lift in the cart."
"That's very kind of you," Tanis said, hesitating and glancing at the others.
They returned his look, Caramon shrugging. "Uh, I know this sounds strange,
but we-we were blown off course. What city are we north of?"
"Why, Kalaman, to be sure," the fisherman said, eyeing them suspiciously.
"Oh!" said Tanis. Laughing weakly, he turned to Caramon. What did I tell you?
We-uh-weren't blown as far off course as you thought."
"We weren't?" Caramon said, his eyes open wide. "Oh, we weren't," he amended
hastily as Tika dug her elbow into his ribs. "Yeah, I guess I was wrong, as
usual. You know me, Tanis, never could get my bearings-"
"Don't overdo it!" Riverwind muttered, and Caramon fell silent.
The fisherman gave them all a dark look. "Yer a strange bunch, no doubt," he
said. "You can't remember how you came to smash up. Now you don't even know
where you are. I reckon you was all drunk, but that's not my concern. If
you'll take my advice, you'll none of you set foot in a boat again, drunk or
sober. Davey, bring round the cart."
Giving them a final, disgusted glance, the fisherman lifted his small son on
his shoulder and went back to work. His older son disappeared, presumably
going to fetch the cart.
Tanis sighed, looking around at his friends.
"Do any of you know how we got here?" he asked quietly. "Or why we're dressed
like this?"
One by one, they all shook their heads.
"I remember the Blood Sea and the maelstrom," Goldmoon said. "But then the
rest seems like something I dreamed."
"I remember Raist..." Caramon said softly, his face grave. Then, feeling
Tika's hand slip through his, he looked down at her. His expression softened.
"And I remember-"
"Hush," Tika said, blushing, laying her cheek against his arm. Caramon kissed
her red curls. "It wasn't a dream," she murmured.
"I remember a few things, too," Tanis said grimly, looking at Berem. "But it's
disjointed, fragmented. None of it seems to go together right in my mind.
Well, it's no good looking back. We've got to look forward. We'll go to
Kalaman and find out what's been happening. I don't even know what day it is!
Or month for that matter. Then-"
"Palanthas," Caramon said. "We'll go to Palanthas."
"We'll see," Tanis said, sighing. Davey was returning with the cart, drawn by
a bony horse. The half-elf looked at Caramon. "Are you really certain you want
to find that brother of yours?" he asked quietly.
Caramon did not answer.
The companions arrived in Kalaman about mid-morning.
"What's going on?" Tanis asked Davey as the young man drove the cart through
the city streets. "Is there a festival?"
The streets were crowded with people. Most of the shops were closed and
shuttered. Everyone stood around in small clumps, talking together in excited
tones.
"It looks more like a funeral," Caramon said. "Someone important must have
died."
"That-or war," Tanis muttered. Women were weeping, men looked sorrowful or
angry, children stood about, staring fearfully at their parents.
"Can't be war, sir," Davey said, "and Spring Dawning festival was two days
ago. Don't know what's the matter. Just a minute. I can find out if you want,"
he said, pulling the horse to a stop.
"Go ahead," Tanis said. "Just a minute, though. Why can't it be war?"
"Why, we've won the war!" Davey said, staring at Tanis in astonishment. "By
the gods, sir, you musta been drunk if you don't remember. The Golden General
and the good dragons-"
"Oh, yes," Tanis said hastily.
"I'll stop in here, at the fish market," Davey said, hopping down. "They'll
know."
"We'll come with you." Tanis motioned the others.
"What's the news?" Davey called, running up to a knot of men and women
standing before a shop redolent with the odor of fresh fish.
Several men turned immediately, all speaking at once. Coming up behind the
boy, Tanis caught only parts of the excited conversation. "Golden General
captured!... City doomed... people fleeing . . . evil dragons . . ."
Try as they might, the companions could make nothing out of this. The people
seemed reluctant to talk around strangers- giving them dark, mistrustful
glances, especially seeing their rich clothing.
The companions thanked Davey once more for the ride into town, then left him
among his friends. After a brief discussion, they decided to head for the
marketplace, hoping to find out more details of what had happened. The crowds
grew denser as they walked until they practically had to fight their way
through the packed streets. People ran here and there, asking for the latest
rumors, shaking their heads in despair. Occasionally they saw some citizens,
their belongings hastily packed in bundles, heading for the city gates.
"We should buy weapons," Caramon said grimly. 'The news doesn't sound good.
Who do you suppose this 'Golden General' is, anyway? The people seem to think
a lot of him if his disappearance throws them into this much turmoil."
"Probably some Knight of Solamnia," Tanis said. "And you're right, we should
buy weapons." He put his hand to his belt. "Damn! I had a purse of
funny-looking old gold coins, but it's gone now! As if we didn't have enough
trouble..."
"Wait a minute!" Caramon grunted, feeling his belt. "Why! What the- My purse
was here a second ago!" Whirling around, the big warrior caught a glimpse of
small figure disappearing among the crush of people, a worn leather pouch in
its hand. "Hey! You! That's mine!" Caramon roared. Scattering people like
straws in the wind, he leaped after the small thief. Reaching out a huge hand,
he caught hold of a fleecy vest and plucked the squirming figure up off the
street. "Now give me back-" The big warrior gasped. "Tasslehoff!"
"Caramon!" Tasslehoff cried.
Caramon dropped him in astonishment. Tasslehoff stared around wildly. "Tanis!"
he shouted, seeing the half-elf coming through the crowd. "Oh, Tanis!" Running
forward, Tas threw his arms around his friend. Burying his face in Tanis's
belt, the kender burst into tears.

The people of Kalaman lined the walls of their city. Just a few days before
they had done the same thing, only then their mood had been festive as they
watched the triumphant procession of knights and silver and golden dragons.
Now they were quiet, grim with despair. They looked out over the plain as the
sun rose to its zenith in the sky. Nearly noon. They waited silently.
Tanis stood next to Flint, his hand on the dwarf's shoulder. The old dwarf had
nearly broken down at the sight of his friend.
It was a sad reunion. In hushed and broken voices, Flint and Tasslehoff took
turns telling their friends what had happened since they were parted in Tarsis
months ago. One would talk until overcome, then the other would carry on the
story. Thus the companions heard of the discovery of the dragonlances, the
destruction of the dragon orb, and Sturm's death.
Tanis bowed his head, overwhelmed with sorrow at this news. For a moment, he
couldn't imagine the world without his noble friend. Seeing Tanis's grief,
Flint's gruff voice went on to tell of Sturm's great victory and the peace he
had found in death.
"He is a hero in Solamnia now," Flint said. "Already they're telling stories
of him, like they do of Huma. His great sacrifice saved the Knighthood, or so
it is said. He would have asked for nothing more, Tanis."
The half-elf nodded wordlessly. Then, trying to smile, "Go on," he said. "Tell
me what Laurana did when she arrived in Palanthas. And is she still there? If
so, we were thinking about going-"
Flint and Tas exchanged glances. The dwarf's head bowed. The kender looked
away, snuffling and wiping his small nose with a handkerchief.
"What is it?" Tanis asked in a voice he didn't recognize as his own. Tell me."
Slowly, Flint related the story. "I'm sorry, Tanis," the dwarf said, wheezing.
"I let her down-"
The old dwarf began to sob so pitifully that Tanis's heart ached with sorrow.
Gasping his friend in his arms, he held him tightly.
"It wasn't your fault, Flint," he said, his voice harsh with tears. "It's
mine, if anyone's. It was for me she risked death and worse."
"Start placing blame and you will end cursing the gods," said Riverwind,
laying his hand on Tanis's shoulder. "Thus do my people say."
Tanis was not comforted. "What time is the-the Dark Lady to come?" "Noon,"
said Tas softly.
Now it was nearly noon and Tanis stood with the rest of the citizens of
Kalaman, waiting for the arrival of the Dark Lady. Gilthanas stood some
distance from Tanis, pointedly ignoring him. The half-elf couldn't blame him.
Gilthanas knew why Laurana had left, he knew what bait Kitiara had used to
snare his sister. When he asked Tanis coldly if it was true that he had been
with the Dragon Highlord, Kitiara, Tanis could not deny it.
"Then I hold you responsible for whatever happens to Laurana," Gilthanas said,
his voice shaking in rage. "And I will pray to the gods nightly that whatever
cruel fate befalls her, you will meet the same thing-only a hundred times
worse!"
"Don't you think I'd accept that if it would bring her back!" Tanis cried in
anguish. But Gilthanas only turned away.
Now the people began to point and murmur. A dark shadow was visible in the
sky-a blue dragon.
That's her dragon," Tasslehoff said solemnly. "I saw it at the High Clerist's
Tower."
The blue dragon circled lazily above the city in slow spirals, then landed
leisurely within bow-shot of the city walls. A deathly hush fell upon the city
as the dragon's rider stood up in the stirrups. Removing her helm, the Dark
Lady began to speak, her voice ringing through the clear air.
"By now you have heard that I have captured the elf woman you call the 'Golden
General!' " Kitiara shouted. "In case you need proof, I have this to show
you." She raised her hand. Tanis saw the flash of sunlight on a beautifully
crafted silver helm. "In my other hand, though you cannot see it from where
you stand, I have a lock of golden hair. I will leave both these here, on the
plain, when I depart, that you may have something to remember your 'general'
by."
There was a harsh murmur from the people lining the walls. Kitiara stopped
speaking a moment, regarding them coldly. Watching her, Tanis dug his nails
into his flesh to force himself to remain calm. He had caught himself
contemplating a mad scheme to leap from the wall and attack her where she
stood.
Goldmoon, seeing the wild, desperate look on his face, moved near and laid her
hand on his arm. She felt his body shaking, then he stiffened at her touch,
bringing himself under control. Looking down at his clenched hands, she was
horrified to see blood trickling down his wrists.
"The elfmaid, Lauralanthalasa, has been taken to the Queen of Darkness at
Neraka. She will remain as hostage with the Queen until the following
conditions are met. First, the Queen demands that a human called Berem, the
Everman, be turned over to her immediately. Second, she demands that the good
dragons return to Sanction, where they will give themselves up to Lord
Ariakas. Finally, the elflord, Gilthanas, will call for the Knights of
Solamnia and the elves of both the Qualinesti and Silvanesti tribes to lay
down their arms. The dwarf, Flint Fireforge, will require of his people that
they do the same."
"This is madness!" Gilthanas called out in answer, stepping forward to the
edge of the wall and staring down at the Dark Lady. "We cannot agree to these
demands! We have no idea who this Berem is, or where to find him. I cannot
answer for my people, nor can I answer for the good dragons. These demands are
totally unreasonable!"
"The Queen is not unreasonable," Kitiara replied smoothly. "Her Dark Majesty
has foreseen that these demands will need time to be acted upon. You have
three weeks. If, within that time, you have not found the man, Berem, whom we
believe to be in the area around Flotsam, and if you have not sent away the
good dragons, I will return and, this time, you will find more than a lock of
your general's hair before the gates of Kalaman."
Kitiara paused.
"You will find her head"
With that, she tossed the helm down onto the ground at her dragon's feet,
then, at a word, Skie lifted his wings and rose into the air.
For long moments, no one spoke or moved. The people stared down at the helm
lying before the wall. The red ribbons fluttering bravely from the top of the
silver helm seemed the only movement, the only color. Then someone cried out
in terror, pointing.
Upon the horizon appeared an incredible sight. So awful was it that no one
believed it at first, each thinking privately he must be going mad. But the
object drifted closer and all were forced to admit its reality, though that
did not diminish the horror.
Thus it was that the people of Krynn had their first glimpse of Lord Ariakas's
most ingenious war machine-the flying citadels.
Working in the depths of the temples of Sanction, the black-robed magic-users
and dark clerics ripped a castle from its foundations and set it in the skies.
Now, floating upon dark gray storm clouds, lit by jagged barbs of white
lightning, surrounded by a hundred flights of red and black dragons, the
citadel loomed over Kalaman, blotting out the noon sun, casting its dreadful
shadow over the city.
The people fled the walls in terror. Dragonfear worked its horrible spell,
causing panic and despair to fall upon all who dwelt in Kalaman. But the
citadel's dragons did not attack. Three weeks, their Dark Queen had ordered.
They would give these wretched humans three weeks. And they would keep watch
to see that, during this time, the Knights and the good dragons did not take
the field.
Tanis turned to the rest of the companions who stood huddled upon the walls,
staring bleakly at the citadel. Accustomed to the effects of dragonfear, they
had been able to withstand it and were not fleeing in panic as were the rest
of the citizens of Kalaman. Consequently they stood alone together upon the
walls.
"Three weeks," Tanis said clearly, and his friends turned to him.
For the first time since they had left Flotsam, they saw that his face was
free of its self-condemning madness. There was peace in his eyes, much as
Flint has seen peace in Sturm's eyes after the knight's death.
"Three weeks," Tanis repeated in a calm voice that sent shivers up Flint's
spine, "we have three weeks. That should be time enough. I'm going to Neraka,
to the Dark Queen." His eyes went to Berem, who stood silently nearby. "You're
coming with me."
Berem's eyes opened wide in stark terror. "Not" he whimpered, shrinking
backwards. Seeing the man about to run, Caramon's huge hand reached out and
caught hold of him.
"You will go with me to Neraka," Tanis said in a soft voice, "or I will take
you right now and give you to Gilthanas. The elf lord loves his sister dearly.
He would not hesitate to hand you over to the Queen of Darkness if he thought
that would buy Laurana's freedom. You and I know differently. We know that
giving you up wouldn't change matters a bit. But he doesn't. He is an elf, and
he would believe she would keep her bargain."
Berem stared at Tanis warily. "You won't give me up?"
"I'm going to find out what's going on," Tanis stated coldly, avoiding the
question. "At any rate, I'll need a guide, someone who knows the area . . ."
Wrenching himself free of Caramon's grip, Berem regarded them with a hunted
expression. "I'll go," he whimpered. "Don't give me to the elf . . ."
"All right," Tanis said coldly. "Quit sniveling. I'll be leaving before dark
and I've got a lot to do-"
Turning abruptly, he was not surprised to feel a strong hand grip his arm. "I
know what you're going to say, Caramon." Tanis did not turn around. "And the
answer is no. Berem and I are going alone."
"Then you'll go to your deaths alone," Caramon said quietly, holding onto
Tanis firmly.
"If so, then that's what I'll do!" Tanis tried without success to break free
of the big man. "I'm not taking any of you with me."
"And you'll fail," Caramon said. "Is that what you want? Are you going just to
find a way to die that will end your guilt? If so, I can offer you my sword
right now. But if you truly want to free Laurana then you're going to need
help."
"The gods have reunited us," Goldmoon said gently. "They have brought us
together again in our time of greatest need. It is a sign from the gods,
Tanis. Don't deny it."
The half-elf bowed his head. He could not cry, there were no tears left.
Tasslehoff's small hand slipped into his.
"Besides," said the kender cheerfully, "think how much trouble you'd get into
without me!"

19
A single candle.

The city of Kalaman was deathly silent the night after the Dark Lady issued
her ultimatum. Lord Calof declared a State of War, which meant all taverns
were closed, the city gates were locked and barred, no one allowed to leave.
The only people permitted to enter were families from the small farming and
fishing villages near Kalaman. These refugees began arriving near sundown,
telling fearful tales of draconians swarming over their land, looting and
burning. Although some of the noblemen of Kalaman had been opposed to such a
drastic measure as a declared State of War, Tanis and Gilthanas-united for
once-had forced the Lord to make this decision. Both of them painted vivid and
horrifying pictures of the burning of the city of Tarsis. These proved
extremely convincing. Lord Calof made his declaration, but then stared at the
two men helplessly. It was obvious he had no idea what to do in regard to the
defense of the city. The horrifying shadow of the floating citadel hovering
above had completely unnerved the lord, and most of his military leaders were
in little better shape. After listening to some of their wilder ideas, Tanis
rose to his feet.
"I have a suggestion, my lord," he said respectfully. "You have a person here,
well-qualified to take over the defense of this city-"
"You, Half-Elf?" interrupted Gilthanas with a bitter smile.
"No," said Tanis gently. "You, Gilthanas."
"An elf?" said Lord Calof in amazement.
"He was in Tarsis. He has had experience fighting the draconians and the
dragons. The good dragons trust him and will follow his judgment."
"That's true!" Calof said. A look of vast relief crossed his face as he turned
to Gilthanas. "We know how elves feel about humans, my lord, and-I must
admit-most humans feel the same about elves. But we would be eternally
grateful if you could help us in this time of peril."
Gilthanas stared at Tanis, puzzled for a moment. He could read nothing in the
half-elf's bearded face. It was almost, he thought, the face of a dead man.
Lord Calof repeated his question, adding something about "reward," apparently
thinking Gilthanas's hesitation was due to a reluctance to accept the
responsibility.
"No, my lord!" Gilthanas came out of his reverie with a start. "No reward is
necessary or even wanted. If I can help save the people of this city, that
will be reward enough. As for being of different races"-Gilthanas looked once
more at Tanis- "perhaps I have learned enough to know that doesn't make any
difference. It never did."
"Tell us what to do," Calof said eagerly.
"First, I would like a word with Tanis," Gilthanas said, seeing the half-elf
preparing to depart.
"Certainly. There is a small room through the door to your right where you may
talk in private." The lord gestured.

Once inside the small, luxuriously appointed room, both men stood in
uncomfortable silence for long moments, neither looking at the other directly.
Gilthanas was the first to break the silence.
"I have always despised humans," the elflord said slowly, "and now I find
myself preparing to take on the responsibility of protecting them." He smiled.
"It is a good feeling," he added softly, looking directly at Tanis for the
first time.
Tanis's eyes met Gilthanas's and his grim face relaxed for a moment, though he
did not return the elflord's smile. Then his gaze fell, his grave expression
returned.
"You're going to Neraka, aren't you?" Gilthanas said after another long pause.
Tanis nodded, wordlessly.
"Your friends? They're going with you?"
"Some of them," Tanis replied. "They all want to go, but-" He found he could
not continue, remembering their devotion. He shook his head.
Gilthanas stared down at an ornately carved table, absently running his hand
over the gleaming wood.
"I must leave," Tanis said heavily, starting for the door. "I have a lot yet
to do. We plan to leave at midnight, after Solinari's set-"
"Wait." Gilthanas put his hand on the half-elf's arm. "I-I want to tell you
I'm sorry . . . about what I said this morning. No, Tanis, don't leave. Hear
me out. This isn't easy for me." Gilthanas paused a moment. "I've learned a
great deal, Tanis- about myself. The lessons have been hard ones. I forgot
them... when I heard about Laurana. I was angry and frightened and I wanted to
hit someone. You were the closest target. What Laurana did, she did out of
love for you. I'm learning about love, too, Tanis. Or I'm trying to learn."
His voice was bitter. "Mostly I'm learning about pain. But that's my problem."
Tanis was watching him now. Gilthanas's hand was still on his shoulder.
"I know now, after I've had time to think," Gilthanas continued softly, "that
what Laurana did was right. She had to go, or her love would have been
meaningless. She had faith in you, believed in you enough to go to you when
she heard you were dying, even though it meant going to that evil place-"
Tanis's head bowed. Gilthanas gripped him tightly, both hands on his
shoulders.
"Theros Ironfeld said once that-in all the years he had lived-he had never
seen anything done out of love come to evil. We have to believe that, Tanis.
What Laurana did, she did out of love. What you do now, you do out of love.
Surely the gods will bless that."
"Did they bless Sturm?" Tanis asked harshly. "He loved!"
"Didn't they? How do you know?"
Tanis's hand closed over Gilthanas's. He shook his head. He wanted to believe.
It sounded wonderful, beautiful... just like tales of dragons. As a child,
he'd wanted to believe in dragons, too...
Sighing, he walked away from the elflord. His hand was on the doorknob when
Gilthanas spoke again.
"Farewell... brother."

The companions met by the wall, at the secret door Tasslehoff had found that
led up and over the walls, out into the plains beyond. Gilthanas could, of
course, have given them permission to leave by the front gates, but the fewer
people who knew of this dark journey the better as far as Tanis was concerned.
Now they were gathered inside the small room at the top of the stairs.
Solinari was just sinking behind the distant mountains. Tanis, standing apart
from the others, watched the moon as its last silvery rays touched the
battlements of the horrible citadel hovering above them. He could see lights
in the floating castle. Dark shapes moved around. Who lived in that dreadful
thing? Draconians? The black-robed mages and dark clerics whose power had torn
it from the soil and now kept it drifting among masses of thick gray clouds?
Behind him, he heard the others talking in soft voices-all except for Berem.
The Everman-watched over closely by Caramon-stood apart, his eyes wide and
fearful.
For long moments Tanis watched them, then he sighed. He faced another parting,
and this one grieved him so that he wondered if he had the strength to make
it. Turning slightly, he saw the last beaming rays of Solinari's fading light
touch Goldmoon's beautiful silver-gold hair. He saw her face, peaceful and
serene-even though she contemplated a journey into darkness and danger. And he
knew he had the strength.
With a sigh, he walked away from the window to rejoin his friends.
"Is it time?" Tasslehoff asked eagerly.
Tanis smiled, his hand reaching out fondly to stroke Tas's ridiculous topknot
of hair. In a changing world, kenders remained constant.
"Yes," Tanis said, "it is time." His eyes went to Riverwind. "For some of us."
As the Plainsman met the half-elf's steady, unwavering gaze, the thoughts in
his mind were reflected in his face, as clear to Tanis as clouds flitting
across the night sky. First Riverwind was uncomprehending, perhaps he had not
even heard Tanis's words. Then the Plainsman realized what had been said. Now
he understood, and his stern, rigid face flushed, the brown eyes flared. Tanis
said nothing. He simply shifted his gaze to Goldmoon.
Riverwind looked at his wife, who stood in a pool of silvery moonlight,
waiting, her own thoughts far away. There was a sweet smile on her lips. A
smile Tanis had seen only recently. Perhaps she was seeing her child playing
in the sun.
Tanis looked back at Riverwind. He saw the Plainsman's inner struggle, and
Tanis knew that the Que-shu warrior would offer-no, he would insist-on
accompanying them, even though it meant leaving Goldmoon behind.
Walking to him, Tanis put his hands on the tall man's shoulders, looking into
the Plainsman's dark eyes.
"Your work is done, my friend," Tanis said. "You have walked winter's path far
enough. Here our roads separate. Ours leads into a bleak desert. Yours wends
its way through green and blossoming trees. You have a responsibility to the
son or daughter you are bringing into the world." He put his hand on
Goldmoon's shoulder now, drawing her near, seeing her about to protest.
"The baby will be born in the autumn," Tanis said softly, "when the
vallenwoods are red and golden. Don't cry, my dear." He gathered Goldmoon into
his arms. "The vallenwoods will grow again. And you will take the young
warrior or the young maiden into Solace, and you will tell them a story of two
people who loved each other so much they brought hope into a world of
dragons."
He kissed her beautiful hair. Then Tika, weeping softly, took his place,
bidding Goldmoon farewell. Tanis turned to Riverwind. The Plainsman's stern
mask was gone; his face showed plainly the marks of his grief. Tanis himself
could barely see through his tears.
"Gilthanas will need help, planning the defense of the city." Tanis cleared
his throat. "I wish to the gods this was truly the end of your dark winter,
but I'm afraid it must last a little longer."
"The gods are with us, my friend, my brother," Riverwind said brokenly,
embracing the half-elf. "May they be with you, as well. We will wait here for
your return."
Solinari dipped behind the mountains. The only lights in the night sky were
the cold and glittering stars and the hideous gleam of windows in the citadel,
watching them with yellow eyes. One by one, the companions bid the Plainsmen
goodbye. Then, following Tasslehoff, they silently crossed the wall, entered
another door, and crept down another staircase. Tas shoved open the door at
the bottom. Moving cautiously, hands on their weapons, the companions stepped
out onto the plain.
For a moment, they stood huddled together, staring out across the plain
where-even in the deep darkness-it seemed to them they would be visible to
thousands of eyes watching from the citadel above.
Standing next to Berem, Tanis could feel the man shivering with fear and he
felt glad he had assigned Caramon to watch him. Ever since Tanis had stated
they were going to Neraka, the half-elf had seen a frantic, haunted look in
the man's blue eyes-much like the look of a trapped animal. Tanis caught
himself pitying the man, then hardened his heart. Too much was at stake. Berem
was the key; the answer lay within him and within Neraka. Just how they were
going to go about discovering the answer, Tanis hadn't decided yet, although
the beginnings of a plan stirred in his brain.
Far away, the blaring noise of horns split the night air. An orange light
flared on the horizon. Draconians, burning a village. Tanis gripped his cloak
around him. Though Spring Dawning had come and past, the chill of winter was
still in the air.
"Move out," he said softly.
One by one, he watched them run across the strip of open grassland, racing to
reach the shelter of the grove of trees beyond. Here small, fast-flying brass
dragons waited to carry them into the mountains.
This might all end tonight, Tanis though nervously, watching Tasslehoff
scamper into the darkness like a mouse. If the dragons were discovered, if the
watching eyes in the citadel saw them-it would be all over. Berem would fall
into the hands of the Queen. Darkness would cover the land.
Tika followed Tas, running lightly and surely. Flint ran close behind,
wheezing. The dwarf looked older. The thought that he was unwell crossed
Tanis's mind, but he knew Flint would never agree to stay behind. Now Caramon
ran through the darkness, his armor clanking. One hand was fixed firmly on
Berem, tugging him along beside him.
My turn, Tanis realized, seeing the others safely sheltered within the grove.
This is it. For good or for evil, the story is drawing near its end. Glancing
up, he saw Goldmoon and Riverwind watching them from the small window in the
tower room.
For good or for evil.
What if it does end in darkness, Tanis wondered for the first time. What will
become of the world? What will become of those I'm leaving behind?
Steadily he looked up at these two people who were as dear to him as the
family he'd never known. And, as he watched, he saw Goldmoon light a candle.
For a brief instant the flame illuminated her face and Riverwind's. They
raised their hands in parting, then extinguished the flame lest unfriendly
eyes see it.
Taking a deep breath, Tanis turned and tensed himself to run.
The darkness might conquer, but it could never extinguish hope. And though one
candle-or many-might flicker and die, new candles would be lit from the old.
Thus hope's flame always burns, lighting the darkness until the coming of day.

BOOK 2
1
An old man and a golden dragon.

He was an ancient gold dragon, the oldest of his kind. In his day, he had been
a fierce warrior. The scars of his victories were visible on his wrinkled
golden skin. His name had once been as shining as his glories, but he had
forgotten it long ago. A few of the younger, irreverent gold dragons referred
to him affectionately as Pyrite- Fool's Gold-due to his not infrequent habit
of mentally fading out of the present and reliving his past.
Most of his teeth were gone. It had been eons since he had munched up a nice
bit of deer meat or torn apart a goblin. He was able to gum a rabbit now and
then, but mostly he lived on oatmeal.
When Pyrite lived in the present, he was an intelligent, if irascible,
companion. His vision was dimming, though he refused to admit it, and he was
as deaf as a doorknob. His mind was quick. His conversation was still sharp as
a tooth-so the saying went among dragons. It was just that he rarely discussed
the same topic as anyone else in his company.
But when he was back in his past, the other golds took to their caves. For
when he remembered them, he could still throw spells remarkably well, and his
breath weapons were as effective as ever.
On this day, however, Pyrite was neither in past nor in present. He lay on the
Plains of Estwilde, napping in the warm spring sunshine. Next to him sat an
old man doing the same thing, his head pillowed on the dragon's flank.
A battered and shapeless pointed hat rested over the old man's face to shield
his eyes from the sun. A long white beard flowed out from under the hat.
Booted feet stuck out from beneath long, mouse-colored robes.
Both slept soundly. The gold dragon's flanks heaved and thrummed with his
wheezing breath. The old man's mouth was wide open, and he sometimes woke
himself with a prodigious snore. When this happened, he would sit bolt
upright-sending his hat rolling onto the ground (which did not help its
appearance) and look around in alarm. Seeing nothing, he would grunt to
himself in annoyance, replace his hat (after he found it), poke the dragon
irritably in the ribs, then go back to his nap.
A casual passerby might have wondered what in the name of the Abyss these two
were doing calmly sleeping on the Plains of Estwilde, even though it was a
fine, warm spring day. The passerby might have supposed the two were waiting
for someone, for the old man would occasionally awaken, remove his hat, and
peer solemnly up into the empty sky.
A passerby might have wondered-had there been any passers by. There were not.
At least no friendly ones. The Plains of Estwilde were crawling with draconian
and goblin troops. If the two knew they were napping in a dangerous place,
they did not seem to mind.
Awakening from a particularly violent snore, the old man was just about to
scold his companion sternly for making such terrible noises when a shadow fell
across them.
"Ha!" the old man said angrily, staring up. "Dragonriders! A whole passel of
'em. Up to no good, too, I suppose." The old man's white eyebrows came
together in a V-shape above his nose. "I've had about enough of this. Now they
have the nerve to come and cut off my sunshine. Wake up!" he shouted, poking
at Pyrite with a weather-beaten old wooden staff.
The gold dragon grumbled, opened one golden eye, stared at the old man (seeing
only a mouse-colored blur), and calmly shut his eye again.
The shadows continued to pass over-four dragons with riders.
"Wake up, I say, you lazy lout!" the old man yelled. Snoring blissfully, the
gold rolled over on his back, his clawed feet in the air, his stomach turned
to the warm sun.
The old man glared at the dragon for a moment, then, in sudden inspiration,
ran around to the great head, "War!" he shouted gleefully, directly into one
of the dragon's ears. "It's war! We're under attack-"
The effect was startling. Pyrite's eyes flared open. Rolling over onto his
stomach, his feet dug into the ground so deeply he nearly mired himself. His
head reared up fiercely, his golden wings spread and began to beat, sending
clouds of dust and sand a mile high.
"War!" he trumpeted. "War! We're called. Gather the flights! Mount the
attack!"
The old man appeared rather taken aback by this sudden transformation, and he
was also rendered momentarily speechless by the accidental inhalation of a
mouthful of dust. Seeing the dragon start to leap into the air, however, he
ran forward, waving his hat.
"Wait!" he yelled, coughing and choking. "Wait for me!"
"Who are you that I should wait?" Pyrite roared. The dragon stared through the
billowing sand. "Are you my wizard?"
"Yes, yes," the old man called hastily. "I'm-uh-your wizard. Drop your wing a
bit so I can climb on. Thanks, there's a good fellow. Now I... oh! Whoa! I'm
not strapped in! ... Look out! My hat! Confound it, I didn't tell you to take
off yet!"
"We've got to reach the battle in time," Pyrite cried fiercely. "Huma's
fighting alone!"
"Huma!" The old man snorted. "Well, you're not going to arrive in time for
that battle! Few hundred years late. But that's not the battle I had in mind.
It's those four dragons there, to the east. Evil creatures! We've got to stop
them-"
"Dragons! Ah, yes! I see them!" roared Pyrite, swooping up in hot pursuit of
two extremely startled and highly insulted eagles.
"No! No!" yelled the old man, kicking the dragon in the flanks. "East, you
ninny! Fly two more points to the east!"
"Are you sure you're my wizard?" Pyrite asked in a deep voice. "My wizard
never spoke to me in that tone."
"I'm-uh, sorry, old fellow," the old man said quickly, "just a bit nervous.
Upcoming conflict and all that."
"By the gods, there are four dragons!" Pyrite said in astonishment, having
just caught a blurred glimpse of them.
"Take me in close so I can get a good shot at them," the old man shouted. "I
have a really wonderful spell-Fireball. Now," he muttered, "if I can just
remember how it goes."
Two dragonarmy officers rode among the flight of four brass dragons. One rode
at the front. A bearded man, his helm seemed slightly large for him and was
worn pulled well down over his face, shadowing his eyes. The other officer
rode behind the group. He was a huge man, nearly splitting out of his black
armor. He wore no helm-there probably wasn't one large enough-but his face was
grim and watchful, particularly over the prisoners who rode the dragons in the
center of the flight.
It was an odd assortment of prisoners-a woman dressed in mismatched armor, a
dwarf, a kender, and a middle-aged man with long, unkempt gray hair.
The same passerby who had observed the old man and his dragon might have
noticed that the officers and their prisoners went out of their way to avoid
detection by any ground troops of the Dragon Highlord. Indeed, when one group
of draconians spotted them and began to shout, trying to attract their
attention, the dragonarmy officers studiously ignored them. A truly sharp
observer might also have wondered what brass dragons were doing in the Dragon
Highlord's service.
Unfortunately, neither the old man nor his decrepit golden dragon was a sharp
observer.
Keeping in the clouds, they sneaked up on the unsuspecting group.
"Whiz down out of here at my command," the old man said, cackling to himself
in high glee over the prospect of a fight. "We'll attack 'um from the rear."
"Where's Sir Huma?" the gold asked, peering blearily through the cloud.
"Dead," muttered the old man, concentrating on his spell.
"Dead!" roared the dragon in dismay. "Then we're too late?"
"Oh, never mind!" snapped the old man irritably. "Ready?"
"Dead," repeated the dragon sadly. Then his eyes blazed. "But we'll avenge
him!"
"Yes, quite," said the old man. "Now ... at my signal- No! Not yet! You-"
The old man's words were lost in a rush of wind as the gold dove out of the
cloud, plummeting down on the four smaller dragons beneath him like a spear
shooting from the sky.
The big dragonarmy officer in the back caught a glimpse of movement above him
and glanced up. His eyes widened.
"Tanis!" he yelled in alarm at the officer in the front.
The half-elf turned. Alerted by the sound of Caramon's voice, he was ready for
trouble, but at first he couldn't see anything. Then Caramon pointed.
Tanis looked up.
"What in the name of the gods-" he breathed.
Streaking down out of the sky, diving straight for them, was a golden dragon.
Riding on the dragon was an old man, his white hair flying out behind him
(he'd lost his hat), his long white beard blowing back over his shoulders. The
dragon's mouth was bared in a snarl that would have been vicious if it hadn't
been toothless.
"I think we're under attack," Caramon said in awe.
Tanis had come to the same conclusion. "Scatter!" he yelled, swearing under
his breath. Down below them, an entire division of draconians watched the
aerial battle with intense inter-est. The last thing he had wanted to do was
call attention to the group, now some crazy old man was ruining everything.
The four dragons, hearing Tanis's command, broke instantly from formation-but
not soon enough. A brilliant fireball burst right in their midst, sending the
dragons reeling in the sky.
Momentarily blinded by the brilliant light, Tanis dropped the reins and threw
his arms around the creature's neck as it went rolling about out of control.
Then he heard a familiar voice.
"That got'em! Wonderful spell, Fireball-"
"Fizban!" Tanis groaned.
Blinking his eyes, he fought desperately to bring his dragon under control.
But it seemed the beast knew how to handle himself better than the
inexperienced rider, for the brass soon righted himself. Now that Tanis could
see, he flashed a glance around at the others. They appeared unhurt, but they
were scattered all over the sky. The old man and his dragon were pursuing
Caramon-the old man had his hand outstretched, apparently all set to cast
another devastating spell. Caramon was yelling and gesturing-he, too, had
recognized the befuddled old mage.
Racing toward Fizban from behind came Flint and Tasslehoff, the kender
shrieking in glee and waving his hands, Flint hanging on for dear life. The
dwarf looked positively green.
But Fizban was intent upon his prey. Tanis heard the old man shout several
words and extend his hand. Lightning shot from his fingertips. Fortunately his
aim was off. The lightning streaked past Caramon's head, forcing the big man
to duck but otherwise not injuring him.
Tanis swore an oath so vile he startled himself. Kicking his dragon in the
flanks, he pointed at the old man.
"Attack!" he commanded the dragon. "Don't hurt him, just drive him out of
here."
To his amazement, the brass refused. Shaking his head, the dragon began to
circle, and it suddenly occurred to Tanis that the creature intended to land!
"What? Are you mad?" Tanis swore at the dragon. "You're taking us down into
the dragonarmies!"
The dragon seemed deaf, and now Tanis saw that all the other brass dragons
were circling, preparing to land.
In vain Tanis pleaded with his dragon. Berem, sitting behind Tika, clutched
the woman so desperately she could barely breathe. The Everman's eyes were on
the draconians, who were swarming over the plains toward where the dragons
were going to land. Caramon was flailing about wildly, trying to avoid the
lightning bolts that zapped all around him. Flint had even come to life,
tugging frantically at his dragon's reins, roaring in anger, while Tas was
still yelling wildly at Fizban. The old man followed after them all, herding
the brass dragons before him like sheep.
They landed near the foothills of the Khalkist Mountains. Looking quickly
across the plains, Tanis could see draconians swarming toward them.
We might bluff our way out of this, Tanis thought feverishly, though their
disguises had been intended only to get them into Kalaman, not deceive a party
of suspicious draconians. However, it was worth a shot. If only Berem would
remember to stay in the background and keep quiet.
But before Tanis could say a word, Berem leaped from the back of his dragon
and took off, running frantically into the foothills. Tanis could see the
draconians pointing at him, yelling.
So much for keeping in the background. Tanis swore again. The bluff might
still work... they could always claim a prisoner was trying to escape. No, he
realized in despair, the draconians would simply chase after Berem and catch
him. According to what Kitiara had told him, all the draconians in Krynn had
descriptions of Berem.
"In the name of the Abyss!" Tanis forced himself to calm down and think
logically, but the situation was fast getting out of control. "Caramon! Go
after Berem. Flint, you- No, Tasslehoff, get back here! Damn it! Tika, go
after Tas. No, on second thought, stay with me. You, too, Flint-"
"But Tasslehoff's gone after that crazy old-"
"And if we're lucky, the ground will open and swallow them both!" Tanis
glanced back over his shoulder and swore savagely. Berem-driven by fear-was
clambering over rocks and scrub bushes with the lightness of a mountain goat,
while Caramon-hampered by the dragon armor and his own arsenal of
weapons-slipped down two feet for every foot he gained.
Looking back across the Plains, Tanis could see the draconians clearly.
Sunlight gleamed off their armor and their swords and spears. Perhaps there
was still a chance, if the brass dragons would attack-
But just as he started to order them into battle, the old man came running up
from where he had landed his ancient gold dragon. "Shoo!" said the old man to
the brass dragons. "Shoo-get away! Go back to wherever you came from!"
"No! Wait!" Tanis nearly tore out his beard in frustration, watching as the
old man ran among the brass dragons, waving his arms like a farmer's wife
driving her chickens to shelter.
Then the half-elf stopped swearing for-to his astonishment- the brass dragons
prostrated themselves fiat on the ground before the old man in his
mouse-colored robes. Then, lifting their wings, they soared gracefully into
the air.
In a rage, forgetting he was dressed in captured dragonarmy armor, Tanis ran
across the trampled grass toward the old man, following Tas. Hearing them
coming, Fizban turned around to face them.
"I've a good mind to wash your mouth out with soap," the old mage snapped,
glowering at Tanis. "You're my prisoners now, so just come along quietly or
you'll taste my magic-"
"Fizban!" cried Tasslehoff, throwing his arms around the old man.
The old mage peered down at the kender hugging him, then staggered backwards
in amazement.
"It's Tassle-Tassle-" he stammered.
"Burrfoot," Tas said backing off and bowing politely. "Tasslehoff Burrfoot."
"Great Huma's ghost!" Fizban exclaimed.
"This is Tanis Half-Elven. And that is Flint Fireforge. You remember him?"
Tasslehoff continued, waving a small hand at the dwarf.
"Uh, yes, quite," Fizban muttered, his face flushing.
"And Tika ... and that's Caramon up there... oh, well, you can't sec him now.
Then there's Berem. We picked him up in Kalaman and-oh, Fizban!- he's got a
green gem-ugh, ouch, Tanis, that hurt!"
Clearing his throat, Fizban cast a bleak look around.
"You're-uh-not with the-err-uh-dragonarmies?"
"No," said Tanis grimly, "we're not! Or at least we weren't." He gestured
behind them. "That's likely to change any moment now, though."
"Not with the dragonarmies at all?" Fizban pursued hopefully. "You're sure you
haven't converted? Been tortured? Brainwashed?"
"No, damn it!" Tanis yanked off his helm. "I'm Tanis Half-Elven, remember-"
Fizban beamed. "Tanis Half-Elven! So pleased to see you again, sir." Grabbing
Tanis's hand, he shook it heartily.
"Confound it!" Tanis snapped in exasperation, snatching his hand out of the
old man's grip.
"But you were riding dragons!"
"Those were good dragons!" Tanis shouted. "They've come back!"
"No one told me!" The old man gasped indignantly.
"Do you know what you've done?" Tanis continued, ignoring the interruption.
"You've blown us out of the skies! Sent back our only means to get to Neraka-"
"Oh, I know what I've done," Fizban mumbled. He glanced back over his
shoulder. "My, my. Those fellows seem to be gaining. Mustn't be caught by
them. Well, what are we doing standing around?" He glared at Tanis. "Some
leader you are! I suppose I'll have to take charge... Where's my hat?"
"About five miles back," stated Pyrite with a great yawn.
"You still here?" Fizban said, glaring at the gold dragon in annoyance.
"Where else would I be?" the dragon asked gloomily.
"I told you to go with the others!"
"I didn't want to." Pyrite snorted. A bit of fire flared from his nose, making
it twitch. This was followed by a tremendous sneeze. Sniffing, the dragon
continued peevishly. "No respect for age, those brass dragons. They talk
constantly! And giggle. Gets on my nerves, that silly giggle..."
"Well, you'll just have to go back by yourself then!" Fizban stalked up to
stare the dragon in its bleary eye. "We're going on a long journey into
dangerous country-"
"We're going?" Tanis cried. "Look, old man, Fizban, whatever your name is, why
don't you and your-uh-friend here go back. You're right. It's going to be a
long, dangerous journey. Longer, now, that we've lost our dragons and-"
"Tanis..." said Tika warningly, her eyes on the draconians.
"Into the hills quick," Tanis said, drawing a deep breath, trying to control
his fear and his anger. "Go on, Tika. You and Flint. Tas-" He grabbed the
kender.
"No, Tanis! We can't leave him here!" Tas wailed.
"Tas!" Tanis said in a voice that warned the kender the half-elf had plainly
had enough and wasn't going to stand for anything further. Apparently the old
man understood the same thing.
"I've got to go with these folks," he said to the dragon. "They need me. You
can't go back on your own. You'll just have to sallyforth-"
"Polymorph!" the dragon said indignantly. "The word is 'polymorph!' You never
get that right-"
"Whatever!" the old man yelled. "Quickly! We'll take you with us."
"Very well," the dragon said. "I could use the rest."
"I don't think-" Tanis began, wondering what they would do with a large gold
dragon, but it was too late.
While Tas watched, fascinated, and Tanis fumed in impatience, the dragon spoke
a few words in the strange language of magic. There was a bright flash and
then, suddenly, the dragon vanished.
"What? Where?" Tasslehoff looked all around.
Fizban leaned over to pick up something out of the grass.
"Get moving! Now!" Tanis hustled Tas and the old man into the foothills,
following after Tika and Flint.
"Here," Fizban said to Tas as they ran. "Hold out your hand."
Tas did as instructed. Then the kender caught his breath in awe. He would have
come to a dead stop to examine it, except Tanis caught him by the arm and
dragged him forward.
In the palm of Tas's hand gleamed a tiny golden figure of a dragon, carved in
exquisite detail. Tas imagined he could even see the scars on the wings. Two
small red jewels glittered in the eyes, then-as Tas watched-the jewels winked
out as golden eyelids closed over them.
"Oh, Fizban, it-it's-beautiful! Can I truly keep it?" Tas yelled over his
shoulder to the old man, who was puffing along behind.
"Sure, my boy!" Fizban beamed. "At least until this adventure's ended."
"Or it ends us," Tanis muttered, climbing rapidly over the rocks. The
draconians were drawing nearer and nearer.

2
The golden span.

Up and up into the hills they climbed, the draconians in pursuit of the group,
who now appeared to them to be spies.
The group had lost the trail Caramon used chasing after Berem, but could not
take time to search for it. They were considerably startled, therefore, when
they suddenly came across Caramon, sitting calmly on a boulder,
Berem-unconscious-stretched out beside him.
"What happened?" Tanis asked, breathing heavily, exhausted after the long
climb.
"I caught up with him, finally." Caramon shook his head. "And he put up a
fight. He's strong for an old guy, Tanis. I had to dunk him. I'm afraid I was
a bit too hard, though," he added, staring down at the comatose figure
remorsefully.
"Great!" Tanis was too tired even to swear.
"I'll handle this," Tika said, reaching into a leather pouch.
"The draconians are coming up past that last big rock," Flint reported as he
stumbled into view. The dwarf seemed about done in. He collapsed onto a rock,
mopping his sweating face with the end of his beard.
"Tika-" Tanis began.
"Found it!" she said triumphantly, pulling out a small vial. Kneeling down
beside Berem, she took the stopper from the vial and waved it under his nose.
The unconscious man drew a breath, then immediately began to cough.
Tika slapped him on the cheeks. "On your feet!" she said in her barmaid voice.
"Unless you want the draconians to catch you."
Berem's eyes flew open in alarm. Clutching his head, he sat up dizzily.
Caramon helped him stand.
"That's wonderful, Tika!" Tas said in excitement. "Let me-" Before she could
stop him, Tas grabbed the vial and held it up to his own nose, inhaling
deeply.
"Eeee Ahhhh!" The kender gagged, staggering back into Fizban, who had come up
the path after Flint. "Ugh! Tika! That's . . . awful!" He could barely speak.
"What is it?"
"Some concoction of Otik's," Tika said, grinning. "All of us barmaids carried
it. Came in handy in lots of instances, if you take my meaning." Her smile
slipped. "Poor Otik," she said softly. "I wonder what's become of him. And the
Inn-"
"No time for that now, Tika." Tanis said impatiently. "We've got to go. On
your feet, old man!" This to Fizban, who was just sitting down comfortably.
"I've got a spell," Fizban protested as Tas tugged and prodded him up. "Take
care of those pests instantly. Poof!"
"No!" Tanis said. "Absolutely not. With my luck, you'd turn them all into
trolls."
"I wonder if I could . . ." Fizban's face brightened.
The afternoon sun was just beginning to slide down the rim of the sky when the
trail they had been following ever higher into the mountains suddenly branched
off into two different directions. One led into the mountain peaks; the other
seemed to wind around the side. There might be a pass among the peaks, Tanis
thought; a pass they could defend, if necessary.
But before he could say a word, Fizban started off on the trail that wound
around the mountain. "This way" the old mage announced, leaning on his staff
as he tottered forward.
"But-" Tanis started to protest.
"Come on, come on. This way!" said Fizban insistently, turning around and
glaring at them from beneath his bushy white eyebrows. "That way leads to a
dead end-in more ways than one. I know. I've been here before. This leads
around the side of a mountain to a great gorge. Bridge over the gorge. We can
get across, then fight the draconians when they try to come after us."
Tanis scowled, unwilling to trust the crazy old mage.
"It is a good plan, Tanis," Caramon said slowly. "It's obvious we're going to
have to fight them sometime." He pointed to the draconians climbing up the
mountain trails after them.
Tanis glanced around. They were all exhausted. Tika's face was pale, her eyes
glazed. She leaned on Caramon, who had even left his spears back on the trail
to lighten his burden.
Tasslehoff grinned at Tanis cheerfully. But the kender was panting like a
small dog and he was limping on one foot.
Berem looked the same as always, sullen and frightened. It was Flint that
worried Tanis most. The dwarf had not said a word during their flight. He had
kept up with them without faltering, but his lips were blue and his breath
came in short gasps. Every once in a while-when he thought no one was looking-
Tanis had seen him put his hand over his chest or rub his left arm as if it
pained him.
"Very well." The half-elf decided. "Go on, old mage. Though I'm probably going
to regret this," he added, under his breath as the rest hurried along after
Fizban.
Near sundown, the companions came to a halt. They stood on a small rocky ledge
about three-quarters of the way up the side of the mountain. Before them was a
deep, narrow gorge. Far below they could see a river winding its way through
the bottom of the gorge like a glistening snake.
It must be a four-hundred-foot drop, Tanis calculated. The trail they stood on
hugged the side of the mountain, with sheer cliff on one side and nothing but
air on the other. There was only one way across the gorge.
"And that bridge," said Flint-the first words he had spoken in hours, "is
older than I am . . . and in worse shape."
"That bridge has stood for years!" Fizban said indignantly. "Why, it survived
the Cataclysm!"
"I believe it," Caramon said sincerely.
"At least it's not too long," Tika tried to sound hopeful, though her voice
faltered.
The bridge across the narrow gorge was of a unique construction. Huge
vallenwood limbs were driven into the sides of the mountain on either side of
the gorge. These limbs formed an X-shape that supported the wooden plank
platform. Long ago, the structure must have been an architectural marvel. But
now the wooden planks were rotted and splitting. If there had been a railing,
it had long since fallen down into the chasm below. Even as they watched, the
timbers creaked and shuddered in the chill wind of evening.
Then, behind them, they heard the sound of guttural voices and the clash of
steel on rock.
"So much for going back," Caramon muttered. "We should cross over one by one."
"No time," Tanis said, rising to his feet. "We can only hope the gods are with
us. And-I hate to admit it-but Fizban's right. Once we get across, we can stop
the draconians easily. They'll be excellent targets, stuck out there on that
bridge. I'll go first. Keep behind me, single-file. Caramon, you're rear
guard. Berem, stay behind me."
Moving as swiftly as he dared, Tanis set foot on the bridge. He could feel the
planks quiver and shake. Far below, the river flowed swiftly between the
canyon walls; sharp rocks jutted up from its white, foaming surface. Tanis
caught his breath and looked away quickly.
"Don't look down," he said to the others, feeling a chill emptiness where his
stomach had been. For an instant he couldn't move, then, getting a grip on
himself, he edged his way forward. Berem came right behind him, fear of the
dragonmen completely obliterating any other terrors the Everman might have
experienced.
After Berem came Tasslehoff, walking lightly with kender skill, peering over
the edge in wonder. Then the terrified Flint, supported by Fizban. Finally
Tika and Caramon set foot on the shivering planks, keeping nervous watch
behind them.
Tanis was nearly halfway across when part of the platform gave way, the rotten
wood splintering beneath his feet.
Acting instinctively, in a paroxysm of terror, he clutched desperately at the
planking and caught hold of the edge. But the rotten wood crumbled in his
grasp. His fingers slipped and-
-a hand closed over his wrist.
"Berem!" Tanis gasped. "Hold on!" He forced himself to hang limply, knowing
that any movement on his part would only make Berem's hold on him harder to
maintain.
"Pull him up!" he heard Caramon roar, then, "Don't anybody move! The whole
thing's liable to give way!"
His face tight with the strain, sweat beading on his forehead, Berem pulled.
Tanis saw the muscles on the man's arm bulge, the veins nearly burst from the
skin. With what seemed like agonizing slowness, Berem dragged the half-elf up
over the edge of the broken bridge. Here Tanis collapsed. Shaking with fright,
he lay clinging to the wood, shivering.
Then he heard Tika cry out. Raising his head, he realized with grim amusement
that he had probably just gained his life only to lose it. About thirty
draconians appeared on the trail behind them. Tanis turned to look across the
gaping hole in the center of the bridge. The other side of the platform was
still standing. He might jump across the huge hole to safety, and so might
Berem and Caramon-but not Tas, not Flint, not Tika, or the old mage.
"Excellent targets, you said," Caramon murmured, drawing his sword.
"Cast a spell. Old One!" Tasslehoff said suddenly.
"What?" Fizban blinked.
"A spell!" Tas cried, pointing at the draconians, who-seeing the companions
trapped on the bridge-hurried up to finish them off.
"Tas, we're in enough trouble," Tanis began, the bridge creaking beneath his
feet. Moving warily, Caramon stationed himself squarely in front of them,
facing the draconians.
Fitting an arrow to his bowstring, Tanis fired. A draconian clutched its chest
and fell, shrieking, off the cliff. The half-elf fired again and hit again.
The draconians in the center of the line hesitated, milling about in
confusion. There was no cover, no way to escape the half-elf's deadly barrage.
The draconians in the front of the line surged forward toward the bridge.
At that moment, Fizban began to cast his spell.
Hearing the old mage chant, Tanis felt his heart sink. Then he reminded
himself bitterly that they really couldn't be in a worse position. Berem, next
to him, was watching the draconians with a stoic composure that Tanis found
startling until he remembered that Berem didn't fear death; he would always
return to life. Tanis fired again and another draconian howled in pain. So
intent was he on his targets that he forgot Fizban until he heard Berem gasp
in astonishment. Glancing up, Tanis saw Berem staring into the sky. Following
Berem's gaze, the half-elf was so astonished he nearly dropped his bow.
Descending from the clouds, glittering brightly in the dying rays of the
sun-was a long golden bridge span. Guided by motions of the old mage's hand,
the golden span dropped down out of the heavens to close the gap in the
bridge.
Tanis came to his senses. Looking around, he saw that-for the moment-the
draconians were also transfixed-staring at the golden span with glittering
reptilian eyes.
"Hurry!" Tanis yelled. Gripping Berem by the arm, he dragged the Everman after
him and jumped up onto the span as it hovered just about a foot above the gap.
Berem followed, stumbling up clumsily. Even as they stood on it, the span kept
dropping, slowing a bit under Fizban's guidance.
The span was still about eight inches above the platform when Tasslehoff,
shrieking wildly, leaped onto it, pulling the awestruck dwarf up after him.
The draconians-suddenly realizing their prey was going to escape-howled in
rage and surged onto the wooden bridge. Tanis stood on the golden span, near
its end, firing his arrows at the lead draconians. Caramon remained behind,
driving them back with his sword.
"Get on across!" Tanis ordered Tika as she hopped onto the span beside him.
"Stay beside Berem. Keep an eye on him. You, too, Flint, go with her. Go on!"
he snarled viciously.
"I'll stay with you, Tanis," Tasslehoff offered.
Casting a backward glance at Caramon, Tika reluctantly obeyed orders, grabbing
hold of Berem and shoving him along before her. Seeing the draconians coming,
he needed little urging. Together they dashed across the span onto the
remaining half of the wooden bridge. It creaked alarmingly beneath their
weight. Tanis only hoped it would hold, but he couldn't spare a glance.
Apparently it was, for he heard Flint's thick boots clumping across it.
"We made it!" Tika yelled from the side of the canyon.
"Caramon!" Tanis shouted, firing another arrow, trying to keep his footing on
the golden span.
"Go ahead!" Fizban snapped at Caramon irritably. "I'm concentrating. I have to
set the span down in the right place. A few more centimeters to the left, I
think-"
"Tasslehoff, go on across!" Tanis ordered.
"I'm not leaving Fizban!" said the kender stubbornly as Caramon stepped up
onto the golden span. The draconians, seeing the big warrior leaving, surged
forward again. Tanis fired arrows as fast as he could; one draconian lay on
the bridge in a pool of green blood, another toppled over the edge. But the
half-elf was growing tired. Worse, he was running out of arrows. And the
draconians kept coming. Caramon came to a stop beside Tanis on the span.
"Hurry, Fizban!" pleaded Tasslehoff, wringing his hands.
"There!" Fizban said in satisfaction. "Perfect fit. And the gnomes said I was
no engineer."
Just as he spoke, the golden span carrying Tanis, Caramon, and Tasslehoff
dropped firmly into place between the two sections of the broken bridge.
And at that moment, the other half of the wooden bridge-the half still
standing, the half that led to safety on the other side of the canyon-creaked,
crumbled, and fell into the canyon.
"In the name of the gods!" Caramon gulped in fear, catching hold of Tanis and
dragging him back just as the half-elf had been about to set foot on the
wooden planking.
"Trapped!" Tanis said hoarsely, watching the logs tumble end over end into the
ravine, his soul seeming to plummet with them. On the other side, he could
hear Tika scream, her cries blending with the exultant shouts of the
draconians.
There was a rending, snapping sound. The draconian's cries of exultation
changed at once to horror and fear.
"Look! Tanis!" Tasslehoff cried in wild excitement. "Look!"
Tanis glanced back in time to see the other part of the wooden bridge tumble
into the ravine, carrying with it most of the draconians. He felt the golden
span shudder.
"We'll fall, too!" Caramon roared. "There's nothing to support-"
Caramon's tongue froze to the roof of his mouth. With a strangled gulp, he
looked slowly from side to side.
"I don't believe it-" he muttered.
"Somehow, I do..." Tanis drew a shuddering breath.
In the center of the canyon, suspended in midair, hung the magical golden
span, glittering in the light of the setting sun as the wooden bridge on
either side of it plunged into the ravine. Upon the span stood four figures,
staring down at the ruins beneath them-and across the great gaps between them
and the sides of the gorge.
For long moments, there was complete, absolute, deathly silence. Then Fizban
turned triumphantly to Tanis.
"Wonderful spell," said the mage with pride. "Got a rope?"
It was well after dark by the time the companions finally got off the golden
span. Flinging a rope to Tika, they waited while she and the dwarf fastened it
securely to a tree. Then-one by one-Tanis, Caramon, Tas, and Fizban swung off
the span and were hauled up the side of the cliff by Berem. When they were all
across, they collapsed, exhausted from fatigue. So tired were they that they
didn't even bother to find shelter, but spread their blankets in a grove of
scrubby pine trees and set the watch. Those not on duty fell instantly asleep.
The next morning, Tanis woke, stiff and aching. The first thing he saw was the
sun shining brightly off the sides of the golden span-still suspended solidly
in mid-air.
"I don't suppose you can get rid of that thing?" he asked Fizban as the old
mage helped Tas hand out a breakfast of quith-pa.
"I'm afraid not..." the old man said, eyeing the span wistfully.
"He tried a few spells this morning," Tas said, nodding in the direction of a
pine tree completely covered with cobwebs and another that was burned to a
crisp. "I figured he better quit before he turned us all into crickets or
something."
"Good idea," muttered Tanis, staring gloomily out at the gleaming span. "Well,
we couldn't leave a clearer trail if we painted an arrow on the side of the
cliff." Shaking his head, he sat down beside Caramon and Tika.
"They'll be after us, too, you can bet," Caramon said, munching half-heartedly
on quith-pa. "Have dragons bring 'em across." Sighing, he stuck most of the
dried fruit back in his pouch.
"Caramon?" said Tika. "You didn't eat much..."
"I'm not hungry," he mumbled as he stood up. "Guess I'll scout ahead a ways."
Shouldering his pack and his weapons, he started off down the trail.
Her face averted, Tika began busily packing away her things, avoiding Tanis's
gaze.
"Raistlin?" Tanis asked.
Tika stopped. Her hands dropped into her lap.
"Will he always be like this, Tanis?" she asked helplessly, looking fondly
after him. "I don't understand!"
"I don't either," Tanis said quietly, watching the big man disappear into the
wilderness. "But, then, I never had a brother or a sister."
"I understand!" said Berem. His soft voice quivered with a passion that caught
Tanis's attention.
"What do you mean?"
But-at his question-the eager, hungry look on the Ever-man's face vanished.
"Nothing-" he mumbled, his face a blank mask.
"Wait!" Tanis rose quickly. "Why do you understand Caramon?" He put his hand
on Berem's arm.
"Leave me alone!" Berem shouted fiercely, flinging Tanis backward.
"Hey, Berem," Tasslehoff said, looking up and smiling as if he hadn't heard a
thing. "I was sorting through my maps and I found one that has the most
interesting story-"
Giving Tanis a hunted glance, Berem shuffled over to where Tasslehoff sat
cross-legged on the ground, his sheaf of maps spread out all around him.
Hunching down over the maps, the Everman soon appeared lost in wonder,
listening to one of Tas's tales.
"Better leave him alone, Tanis," Flint advised. "If you ask me, the only
reason he understands Caramon is that he's as crazy as Raistlin."
"I didn't ask you, but that's all right," Tanis said, sitting down beside the
dwarf to eat his own ration of quith-pa. "We're going to have to be going
soon. With luck, Tas will find a map-"
Flint snorted. "Humpf! A lot of good that will do us. The last map of his we
followed took us to a sea port without a sea!"
Tanis hid his smile. "Maybe this will be different," he said. "At least it's
better than following Fizban's directions."
"Well, you're right there," the dwarf admitted grumpily. Giving Fizban a
sideways glance, Flint leaned over near Tanis. "Didn't you ever wonder how he
managed to live through that fall at Pax Tharkas?" he asked in a loud whisper.
"I wonder about a lot of things," Tanis said quietly. "Like- how are you
feeling?"
The dwarf blinked, completely taken aback by the unexpected question. "Fine!"
he snapped, his face flushing.
"It's just, sometimes I've seen you rub your left arm," Tanis continued.
"Rheumatism," the dwarf growled. "You know it always bothers me in the spring.
And sleeping on the ground doesn't help. I thought you said we should be
moving along." The dwarf busied himself with packing.
"Right." Tanis turned away with a sigh. "Found anything, Tas?"
"Yes, I think so," the kender said eagerly. Rolling up his maps, he stashed
them in his map case, then slipped the case into a pouch, taking a quick peek
at his golden dragon while he was at it. Although seemingly made of metal, the
figurine changed position in the oddest way. Right now, it was curled around a
golden ring-Tanis's ring, one Laurana had given him and he had returned to
her, when he told her he was in love with Kitiara. Tasslehoff became so
absorbed in staring at the dragon and the ring that he nearly forgot Tanis was
waiting.
"Oh," he said, hearing Tanis cough impatiently. "Map. Right. Yes, you see,
once when I was just a little kender, my parents and I traveled through the
Khalkist Mountains-that's where we are now-on our way to Kalaman. Usually, you
know, we took the northern, longer route. There was a fair, every year, at
Taman Busuk, where they sold the most marvelous things, and my father never
missed it. But one year-I think it was the year after he'd been arrested and
put in the stocks over a misunderstanding with a jeweler-we decided to go
through the mountains. My mother'd always wanted to see Godshome, so we-"
"The map?" interrupted Tanis.
"Yes, the map." Tas sighed. "Here. It was my father's, I think. Here's where
we are, as near as Fizban and I can figure. And here's Godshome."
"What's that?"
"An old city. It's in ruins, abandoned during the Cataclysm-"
"And probably crawling with draconians," Tanis finished.
"No, not that Godshome," Tas continued, moving his small finger over into the
mountains near the dot that marked the city. "This place is also called
Godshome. In fact, it was called that long before there was a city, according
to Fizban." Tanis glanced at the old mage, who nodded.
"Long ago, people believed the gods lived there," he said solemnly. "It is a
very holy place."
"And it's hidden," added Tas, "in a bowl in the center of these mountains.
See? No one ever goes there, according to Fizban. No one knows about the trail
except him. And there is a trail marked on my map, at least into the
mountains..."
"No one ever goes there?" Tanis asked Fizban.
The old mage's eyes narrowed in irritation. "No."
"No one except you?" Tanis pursued.
"I've been lots of place, Half-Elven!" The mage snorted. "Got a year? I'll
tell you about them!" He shook a finger at Tanis. "You don't appreciate me,
young man! Always suspicious! And after everything I've done for you-"
"Uh, I wouldn't remind him about that," Tas said hurriedly, seeing Tanis's
face darken. "Come along. Old One."
The two hurried off down the trail, Fizban stomping along angrily, his beard
bristling.
"Did the gods really live in this place we're going to?" Tas asked him to keep
him from bothering Tanis.
"How should I know?" Fizban demanded irritably. "Do I look like a god?"
"But-"
"Did anyone ever tell you that you talk entirely too much?"
"Almost everyone," Tas said cheerfully. "Did I ever tell you about the time I
found a woolly mammoth?
Tanis heard Fizban groan. Tika hurried past him, to catch up with Caramon.
"Coming, Flint?" Tanis called.
"Yes," the dwarf answered, sitting down suddenly on a rock. "Give me a moment.
I've dropped my pack. You go on ahead."
Occupied in studying the kender's map as he walked, Tanis did not see Flint
collapse. He did not hear the odd note in the dwarf's voice, or see the spasm
of pain that briefly contracted the dwarf's face.
"Well, hurry up," Tanis said absently. "We don't want to leave you behind."
"Aye, lad," Flint said softly, sitting on the rock, waiting for the pain to
subside-as it always did.
Flint watched his friend walk down the trail, still moving somewhat clumsily
in the dragonarmor. We don't want to leave you behind.
"Aye, lad," Flint repeated to himself. Brushing his gnarled hand quickly
across his eyes, the dwarf stood up and followed his friends.

3
Godshome.

It was a long and weary day spent wandering through the mountains aimlessly as
near as the impatient half-elf could tell.
The only thing that kept him from throttling Fizban-after they had walked into
the second box canyon in less than four hours-was the undeniable fact that the
old man kept them headed in the right direction. No matter how lost and turned
around they seemed to get, no matter how often Tanis could have sworn they'd
passed the same boulder three times, whenever he caught a glimpse of the sun
they were still traveling unerringly to the southeast.
But as the day wore on, he saw the sun less and less frequently. Winter's
bitter chill had gone from the air and there was even the faint smell of green
and growing things borne on the wind. But soon the sky darkened with lead-gray
clouds and it began to rain, a dull, drumming drizzle that penetrated the
heaviest cloak.
By mid-afternoon, the group was cheerless and dispirited- even Tasslehoff, who
had argued violently with Fizban over directions to Godshome. This was all the
more frustrating to Tanis since it was that obvious neither of them knew where
they were. (Fizban, in fact, was caught holding the map upside down.) The
fight resulted in Tasslehoff stuffing his maps back in his pouch and refusing
to get them out again while Fizban threatened to cast a spell that would turn
Tasslehoff's topknot into a horse's tail.
Fed up with both of them, Tanis sent Tas to the back of the line to cool off,
mollified Fizban, and nursed secret thoughts of sealing them both up in a
cave.
The calmness that the half-elf had felt in Kalaman was slowly vanishing on
this dismal journey. It had been a calmness, he realized now, brought about by
activity, the need to make decisions, the comforting thought that he was
finally doing something tangible to help Laurana. These thoughts kept him
afloat in the dark waters that surrounded him, much as the sea elves had aided
him in the Blood Sea of Istar. But now he felt the dark waters begin to close
over his head once more.
Tanis's thoughts were constantly with Laurana. Over and over, he heard
Gilthanas's accusing words-She did this for you! And though Gilthanas had,
perhaps, forgiven him, Tanis knew he could never forgive himself. What was
happening to Laurana in the Dark Queen's Temple? Was she still alive? Tanis's
soul shrank from that thought. Of course she was alive! The Dark Queen would
not kill her, not as long as she wanted Berem-
Tanis's eyes focused on the man walking ahead of him, near Caramon. I will do
anything to save Laurana, he swore beneath his breath, clenching his fist.
Anything! If it means sacrificing myself or-
He stopped. Would he really give up Berem? Would he really trade the Everman
to the Dark Queen, perhaps plunge the world into a darkness so vast it would
never see light again?
No, Tanis told himself firmly. Laurana would die before she would be part of
such a bargain. Then-after he'd walked a few more steps-he'd change his mind.
Let the world take care of itself, he thought gloomily. We're doomed. We can't
win, no matter what happens. Laurana's life, that's the only thing that counts
... the only thing . . .
Tanis was not the only gloomy member of the group. Tika walked beside Caramon,
her red curls a bright spot of warmth and light in the gray day. But the light
was only in the vibrant red of her hair, it had gone out of her eyes. Although
Caramon was unfailingly kind to her, he had not held her since that wonderful,
brief moment beneath the sea when his love had been hers. This made her angry
in the long nights-he had used her, she decided, simply to ease his own pain.
She vowed she would leave him when this was over. There was a wealthy young
nobleman in Kalaman who had not been able to take his eyes off her... But
those were night thoughts. During the day, when Tika glanced at Caramon, and
saw him plodding along next to her, his head bowed, her heart melted. Gently
she touched him. Looking up at her quickly, he smiled. Tika sighed. So much
for wealthy young noblemen.
Flint stumped along, rarely speaking, never complaining. If Tanis had not been
wrapped up in his own inner turmoil, he would have noted this as a bad sign.
As for Berem, no one knew what he was thinking-if anything. He seemed to grow
more nervous and wary the farther they traveled. The blue eyes that were too
young for his face darted here and there like those of a trapped animal.
It was on the second day in the mountains that Berem vanished.
Everyone had been more cheerful in the morning, when Fizban announced that
they should arrive in Godshome soon. But gloom quickly followed. The rain grew
heavier. Three times in one hour the old mage led them plunging through the
brush with excited cries of "This is it! Here we are!" only to find themselves
in a swamp, a gorge, and-finally-staring at a rock wall.
It was this last time-the dead end-that Tanis felt his soul start to rip from
his body. Even Tasslehoff fell back in alarm at the sight of the half-elf's
rage-distorted face. Desperately Tanis fought to hold himself together, and it
was then he noticed.
"Where's Berem?" he asked, a sudden chill freezing his anger.
Caramon blinked, seemingly coming back from some distant world. The big
warrior looked around hastily, then turned to face Tanis, his face flushed
with shame. "I-I dunno, Tanis. I-I thought he was next to me."
"He's our only way into Neraka," the half-elf said through clenched teeth,
"and he's the only reason they're keeping Laurana alive. If they catch him-"
Tanis stopped, sudden tears choking him. Desperately he tried to think,
despite the blood pounding in his head.
"Don't worry, lad," Flint said gruffly, patting the half-elf on the arm.
"We'll find him."
"I'm sorry, Tanis," Caramon mumbled. "I was thinking about-about Raist. I-I
know I shouldn't-"
"How in the name of the Abyss does that blasted brother of yours work mischief
when he's not even here!" Tanis shouted. Then he caught himself. "I'm sorry,
Caramon," he said, drawing a deep breath. "Don't blame yourself. I should have
been watching, too. We all should have. We've got to backtrack anyway, unless
Fizban can take us through solid rock ... no, don't even consider it, old
man.... Berem can't have gone far and his trail should be easy to pick up.
He's not skilled in wood-lore."
Tanis was right. After an hour tracing back their own footsteps, they
discovered a small animal trail none of them had noticed in passing. It was
Flint who saw the man's tracks in the mud. Calling excitedly to the others,
the dwarf plunged into the brush, following the clearly marked trail easily.
The rest hurried after him, but the dwarf seemed to have experienced an
unusual surge of energy. Like a hunting hound who knows the prey is just ahead
of him, Flint trampled over tangleshoot vines and hacked his way through the
undergrowth without pause. He quickly outdistanced them.
"Flint!" Tanis shouted more than once. "Wait up!"
But the group fell farther and farther behind the excited dwarf until they
lost sight of him altogether. Flint's trail proved even clearer than Berem's,
however. They had little difficulty following the print of the dwarf's heavy
boots, not to mention the broken tree limbs and uprooted vines that marked his
passing.
Then suddenly they were brought to a halt.
They had reached another rock cliff, but this time there was a way through-a
hole in the rock formed a narrow tunnel-like opening. The dwarf had entered
easily-they could see his tracks-but it was so narrow that Tanis stared at it
in dismay.
"Berem got through it," Caramon said grimly, pointing at a smear of fresh
blood the rock.
"Maybe," Tanis said dubiously. "See what's on the other side, Tas," he
ordered, reluctant to enter until he was certain he was not being led a merry
chase.
Tasslehoff crawled through with ease, and soon they heard his shrill voice
exclaiming in wonder over something, but it echoed so they had trouble
understanding his words.
Suddenly Fizban's face brightened. "This is it!" cried the old mage in high
glee. "We've found it! Godshome! The way in-through this passageway!"
"There's no other way?" Caramon asked, staring at the narrow opening gloomily.
Fizban appeared thoughtful. "Well, I seem to recall-"
Then, "Tanis! Hurry!" came through quite clearly from the other side.
"No more dead ends. We'll get through this way," Tanis muttered, "somehow."
Crawling on hands and knees, the companions crept into the narrow opening. The
way did not become easier; sometimes they were forced to flatten themselves
and slither through the mud like snakes. Broad-shouldered Caramon had the
worst time, and for a while Tanis thought perhaps they might have to leave the
big man behind. Tasslehoff waited for them on the other side, peering in at
them anxiously as they crawled. "I heard something, Tanis," he kept saying.
"Flint shouting. Up ahead. And wait until you see this place, Tanis! You won't
believe it!"
But Tanis couldn't take time to listen or look around, not until everyone was
safely through the tunnel. It took all of them, pulling and tugging, to drag
Caramon through and when he finally emerged, the skin on his arms and back was
cut and bleeding.
"This is it!" Fizban stated. "We're here."
The half-elf turned around to see the place called Godshome.
"Not exactly the place I'd choose to live if I were a god," Tasslehoff
remarked in a subdued voice.
Tanis was forced to agree.
They stood at the edge of a circular depression in the center of a mountain.
The first thing that struck Tanis when he looked upon Godshome was the
overwhelming desolation and emptiness of the place. All along the path up into
the mountains, the companions had seen signs of new life: trees budding, grass
greening, wild flowers pushing their way through the mud and remnants of snow.
But here there was nothing. The bottom of the bowl was perfectly smooth and
flat, totally barren, gray and lifeless. The towering peaks of the mountain
surrounding the bowl soared above them. The jagged rock of the peaks seemed to
loom inward, giving the observer the impression of being pressed down into the
crumbling rock beneath his feet. The sky above them was azure, clear, and
cold, devoid of sun or bird or cloud, though it had been raining when they
entered the tunnel. It was like an eye staring down from gray, unblinking
rims. Shivering, Tanis quickly withdrew his gaze from the sky to look once
more within the bowl.
Below that staring eye, within the center of the bowl itself, stood a circle
of huge, tall, shapeless boulders. It was a perfect circle made up of
imperfect rocks. Yet they matched so nearly and stood so close together that
when Tanis tried to look between them, he could not make out from where he was
standing what the strange stones guarded so solemnly. These boulders were all
that was visible in the rock-strewn and silent place.
"It makes me feel so terribly sad," Tika whispered. "I'm not frightened-it
doesn't seem evil, just so sorrowful! If the gods do come here, it must be to
weep over the troubles of the world."
Fizban turned to regard Tika with a penetrating look and seemed about to
speak, but before he could comment, Tasslehoff shouted. "There, Tanis!"
"I see!" The half-elf broke into a run.
On the other side of the bowl, he could see the vague outline of what appeared
to be two figures-one short and the other tall-struggling.
"It's Berem!" screamed Tas. The two were plainly visible to his keen kender
eyes. "And he's doing something to Flint! Hurry, Tanis!"
Bitterly cursing himself for letting this happen, for not keeping closer watch
on Berem, for not forcing the man to reveal those secrets he was so obviously
holding back, Tanis ran across the stony ground with a speed born of fear. He
could hear the others calling to him, but he paid no attention. His eyes were
on the two in front of him and now he could see them clearly. Even as he
watched, he saw the dwarf fall to the ground. Berem stood over him.
"Flint!" Tanis screamed.
His heart was pounding so that blood dimmed his vision. His lungs ached, there
didn't seem air enough to breath. Still he ran faster, and now he could see
Berem turn to look at him. He seemed to be trying to say something-Tanis could
see the man's lips moving-but the half-elf couldn't hear through the surge of
blood beating in his ears. At Berem's feet lay Flint. The dwarf's eyes were
closed, his head lolled over to one side, his face was ashen gray.
"What have you done?" Tanis shrieked at Berem. "You've killed him!" Grief,
guilt, despair, and rage exploded within Tanis like one of the old mage's
fireballs, flooding his head with unbearable pain. He could not see, a red
tide blurred his sight.
His sword was in his hand, he had no idea how. He felt the cold steel of the
hilt. Berem's face swam within a blood-red sea; the man's eyes filled-not with
terror-but with deep sorrow. Then Tanis saw the eyes widen with pain, and it
was only then he knew he had plunged the sword into Berem's unresisting body,
plunged it so deeply that he felt it cleave through flesh and bone and scrape
the rock upon which the Everman was leaning.
Warm blood washed over Tanis's hands. A horrible scream burst in his head,
then a heavy weight fell on him, nearly knocking him down.
Berem's body slumped over him, but Tanis didn't notice. Frantically he
struggled to free his weapon and stab again. He felt strong hands grab him.
But in his madness, the half-elf fought them off. Finally pulling his sword
free, he watched Berem fall to the ground, blood streaming from the horrible
wound just below the green gemstone that glittered with an unholy life in the
man's chest.
Behind him, he heard a deep, booming voice and a woman's sobbing pleas and a
shrill wail of grief. Furious, Tanis spun around to face those who had tried
to thwart him. He saw a big man with a grief-stricken face, a red-haired girl
with tears streaming down her cheeks. He recognized neither of them. And then
there appeared before him an old, old man. His face was calm, his ageless eyes
filled with sorrow. The old man smiled gently at Tanis and, reaching out, laid
his hand on the half-elf's shoulder.
His touch was like cool water to a fevered man. Tanis felt reason return. The
bloody haze cleared from his vision. He dropped the bloodstained sword from
his red hands and collapsed, sobbing, at Fizban's feet. The old man leaned
down and gently patted him.
"Be strong, Tanis," he said softly, "for you must say good-bye to one who has
a long journey before him."
Tanis remembered. "Flint!" he gasped.
Fizban nodded sadly, glancing at Berem's body. "Come along. There's nothing
more you can do here."
Swallowing his tears, Tanis staggered to his feet. Shoving aside the mage, he
stumbled over to where Flint lay on the rocky ground, his head resting on
Tasslehoff's lap.
The dwarf smiled as he saw the half-elf approach. Tanis dropped down on his
knees beside his oldest friend. Taking Flint's gnarled hand in his, the
half-elf held it fast.
"I almost lost him, Tanis," Flint said. With his other hand he tapped his
chest. "Berem was just about to slip out through that other hole in the rocks
over there when this old heart of mine finally burst. He-he heard 'me cry out,
I guess, because the next thing I knew he had me in his arms and was laying me
down on the rocks."
"Then he didn't-he didn't-harm you . . ." Tanis could barely speak.
Flint managed a snort. "Harm me! He couldn't harm a mouse, Tanis. He's as
gentle as Tika." The dwarf smiled up at the girl, who also knelt beside him.
"You take care of that big oaf, Caramon, you hear?" he said to her. "See he
comes in out of the rain."
"I will, Flint." Tika wept.
"At least you won't be trying to drown me anymore," the dwarf grumbled, his
eyes resting fondly on Caramon. "And if you see that brother of yours, give
him a kick in the robes for me."
Caramon could not speak. He only shook his head. "I-I'll go look after Berem,"
the big man mumbled. Taking hold of Tika, he gently helped her stand and led
her away.
"No, Flint! You can't go off adventuring without me!" Tas wailed. "You'll get
into no end of trouble, you know you will!"
"It'll be the first moment of peace I've had since we met," the dwarf said
gruffly. "I want you to have my helm-the one with the griffon's mane." He
glared at Tanis sternly, then turned his gaze back to the sobbing kender.
Sighing, he patted Tas's hand. "There, there, lad, don't take on so. I've had
a happy life, blessed with faithful friends. I've seen evil things, but I've
seen a lot of good things, too. And now hope has come into the world. I hate
to leave you"-his rapidly dimming vision focused on Tanis-"just when you need
me. But I've taught you all I know, lad. Everything will be fine. I know . . .
fine . . ."
His voice sank, he closed his eyes, breathing heavily. Tanis held tightly to
his hand. Tasslehoff buried his face in Flint's shoulder. Then Fizban
appeared, standing at Flint's feet.
The dwarf opened his eyes. "I know you, now," he said softly, his eyes bright
as he looked at Fizban. "You'll come with me, won't you? At least at the
beginning of the journey ... so I won't be alone? I've walked with friends so
long, I feel... kind of funny . . . going off like this ... by myself."
"I'll come with you," Fizban promised gently. "Close your eyes and rest now,
Flint. The troubles of this world are yours no longer. You have earned the
right to sleep."
"Sleep," the dwarf said, smiling. "Yes, that's what I need. Wake me when
you're ready . . . wake me when it's time to leav-" Flint's eyes closed. He
drew in a smooth easy breath, then let it out...
Tanis pressed the dwarf's hand to his lips. "Farewell, old friend," the
half-elf whispered, and he placed the hand on the dwarf's still chest.
"No! Flint! No!" Screaming wildly, Tasslehoff flung himself across the dwarf's
body. Gently Tanis lifted the sobbing kender in his arms. Tas kicked and
fought, but Tanis held him firmly, like a child, and finally Tas
subsided-exhausted. Clinging to Tanis, he wept bitterly.
Tanis stroked the kender's topknot, then-glancing up- stopped.
"Wait! What are you doing, old man?" he cried.
Setting Tas back down on the ground, Tanis rose quickly to his feet. The frail
old mage had lifted Flint's body in his arms and, as Tanis watched in shock,
began walking toward the strange circle of stones.
"Stop!" Tanis ordered. "We must give him a proper ceremony, build a cairn."
Fizban turned to face Tanis. The old man's face was stern. He held the heavy
dwarf gently and with ease.
"I promised him he would not travel alone," Fizban said simply.
Then, turning, he continued to walk toward the stones. Tanis, after a moment's
hesitation, ran after him. The rest stood as if transfixed, staring at
Fizban's retreating figure.
It had seemed an easy thing to Tanis to catch up with an old man bearing such
a burden. But Fizban moved incredibly fast, almost as if he and the dwarf were
as light as the air. Suddenly aware of the weight of his own body, Tanis felt
as if he were trying to catch a wisp of smoke soaring heavenward. Still he
stumbled after them, reaching them just as the old mage entered the ring of
boulders, carrying the dwarf's body in his arms.
Tanis squeezed through the circle of rocks without thinking, knowing only that
he must stop this crazed old mage and recover his friend's body.
Then he stopped within the circle. Before him spread what he first took to be
a pool of water, so still that nothing marred its smooth surface. Then he saw
that it wasn't water-it was a pool of glassy black rock! The deep black
surface was polished to a gleaming brilliance. It stretched before Tanis with
the darkness of night and, indeed, looking down into its black depths, Tanis
was startled to see stars! So clear were they that he looked up,
half-expecting to see night had fallen, though he knew it was only
mid-afternoon. The sky above him was azure, cold and clear, no stars, no sun.
Shaken and weak, Tanis dropped to his knees beside the pool and stared once
more into its polished surface. He saw the stars, he saw the moons, he saw
three moons, and his soul trembled, for the black moon visible only to those
powerful mages of the Black Robes was now visible to him-like a dark circle
cut out of blackness. He could even see the gaping holes where the
constellations of the Queen of Darkness and the Valiant Warrior had once
wheeled in the sky.
Tanis recalled Raistlin's words, "Both gone. She has come to Krynn, Tanis, and
He has come to fight her..."
Looking up, Tanis saw Fizban step onto the black rock pool, Flint's body in
his arms.
The half-elf tried desperately to follow, but he could no more force himself
to crawl out upon that cold rock surface than he could have made himself leap
into the Abyss. He could only watch as the old mage, walking softly as if
unwilling to waken a sleeping child in his arms, moved out into the center of
glistening black surface.
"Fizban!" Tanis called.
The old man did not stop or turn but walked on among the glittering stars.
Tanis felt Tasslehoff creep up next to him. Reaching out, Tanis took his hand
and held it fast, as he had held Flint's.
The old mage reached the center of the rock pool . . . and then disappeared.
Tanis gasped. Tasslehoff leaped past him, starting to run out onto the
mirror-like surface. But Tanis caught him.
"No, Tas," the half-elf said gently. "You can't go on this adventure with him.
Not yet. You must stay with me awhile. I need you now."
Tasslehoff fell back, unusually obedient, and as he did so, he pointed.
"Look, Tanis!" he whispered, his voice quivering. "The constellation! It's
come back!"
As Tanis stared into the surface of the black pool, he saw the stars of the
constellation of the Valiant Warrior return. They flickered, then burst into
light, filling the dark pool with their blue-white radiance. Swiftly Tanis
looked upward-but the sky above was dark and still and empty.

4
Berem's story.

"Tanis!" called Caramon's voice.
"Berem!" Suddenly remembering what he had done, Tanis turned and stumbled over
the rock-strewn ground toward Caramon and Tika, who were staring in horror at
the blood-smeared rock where Berem's body lay. As they watched, Berem began to
stir, groaning-not in pain-but as if with remembered pain. His shaking hand
clutching his chest, Berem rose slowly to his feet. The only sign of his
hideous injury was traces of blood upon his skin, and these vanished as Tanis
watched.
"He is called the Everman, remember?" Tanis said to the ashen-faced Caramon.
"Sturm and I saw him die in Pax Tharkas, buried under a ton of rock. He's died
countless deaths, only to rise again. And he claims he doesn't know why."
Tanis came forward to stand very close to Berem, staring at the man, who
watched him approach with sullen, wary eyes.
"But you do know, don't you, Berem?" Tanis said. The half-elf's voice was
soft, his manner calm. "You know," he repeated, "and you're going to tell us.
The lives of more may hang in balance."
Berem's gaze lowered. "I'm sorry... about your friend," he mumbled. "I-I tried
to help, but there was nothing-"
"I know." Tanis swallowed. "I'm sorry . . . about what I did, too. I-I
couldn't see. ... I didn't understand-"
But as he said the words, Tanis realized he was lying. He had seen, but he had
seen only what he wanted to see. How much of what happened in his life was
like that? How much of what he saw was distorted by his own mind? He hadn't
understood Berem because he didn't want to understand Berem! Berem had come to
represent for Tanis those dark and secret things within himself he hated. He
had killed Berem, the half-elf knew; but in reality, he had driven that sword
through himself.
And now it was as if that sword wound had spewed out the foul, gangrenous
poison corrupting his soul. Now the wound could heal. The grief and sorrow of
Flint's death was like a soothing balm poured inside, reminding him of
goodness, of higher values. Tanis felt himself freed at last of the dark
shadows of his guilt. Whatever happened, he had done his best to try and help,
to try and make things right. He had made mistakes, but he could forgive
himself now and go on.
Perhaps Berem saw this in Tanis's eyes. Certainly he saw grief, he saw
compassion. Then, "I am tired, Tanis," Berem said suddenly, his eyes on the
half-elf's tear-reddened eyes. "I am so very tired." His glance went to the
black pool of rock. "I-I envy your friend. He is at rest now. He has found
peace. Am I never to have that?" Berem's fist clenched, then he shuddered and
his head sank into his hands. "But I am afraid! I see the end-it is very
close. And I am frightened!"
"We're all frightened." Tanis sighed, rubbing his burning eyes. "You're
right-the end is near, and it seems fraught with darkness. You hold the
answer, Berem."
"I'll-I'll tell you-what I can," Berem said haltingly, as if the words were
being dragged out of him. "But you've got to help me!" His hand clutched
Tanis's. "You must promise to help me!"
"I cannot promise," Tanis said grimly, "not until I know the truth."
Berem sat down, leaning his back against the bloodstained rock. The others
settled around him, drawing their cloaks close as the wind rose, whistling
down the sides of the mountains, howling among the strange boulders. They
listened to Berem's tale without interruption, though Tas was occasionally
seized by a fit of weeping and snuffled quietly, his head resting on Tika's
shoulder.
At first Berem's voice was low, his words spoken reluctantly. Sometimes they
could see him wrestling with himself, then he would blurt forth the story as
if it hurt. But gradually he began speaking faster and faster, the relief of
finally telling the truth after all these years flooding his soul.
"When-when I said I understood how you"-he nodded at Caramon-"felt about-about
losing your brother, I spoke the truth. I-I had a sister. We-we weren't twins,
but we were probably as close as twins. She was just a year younger. We lived
on a small farm, outside of Neraka. It was isolated. No neighbors. My mother
taught us to read and write at home, enough to get by. Mostly we worked on the
farm. My sister was my only companion, my only friend. And I was hers.
"She worked hard-too hard. After the Cataclysm, it was all we could to do to
keep food on the table. Our parents were old and sick. We nearly starved that
first winter. No matter what you have heard about the Famine Times, you cannot
imagine." His voice died, his eyes dimmed. "Ravenous packs of wild beasts and
wilder men roamed the land. Being isolated, we were luckier than some. But
many nights we stayed awake, clubs in our hands, as the wolves prowled around
the outside of the house-waiting. ... I watched my sister-who was a pretty
little thing-grow old before she was twenty. Her hair was gray as mine is now,
her face pinched and wrinkled. But she never complained.
"That spring, things didn't improve much. But at least we had hope, my sister
said. We could plant seeds and watch them grow. We could hunt the game that
returned with the spring. There would be food on the table. She loved hunting.
She was a good shot with a bow, and she enjoyed being outdoors. We often went
together. That day-"
Berem stopped. Closing his eyes, he began to shake as if chilled. But,
gritting his teeth, he continued.
"That day, we'd walked farther than usual. A lightning fire had burned away
the brush and we found a trail we'd never seen before. It had been a bad day's
hunting and we followed the trail, hoping to find game. But after a while, I
saw it wasn't an animal trail. It was an old, old path made by human feet; it
hadn't been used in years. I wanted to turn back, but my sister kept going,
curious to see where it led."
Berem's face grew strained and tense. For a moment Tanis feared he might stop
speaking, but Berem continued feverishly, as if driven.
"It led to a-a strange place. My sister said it must have been a temple once,
a temple to evil gods. I don't know. All I know is that there were broken
columns lying tumbled about, overgrown with dead weeds. She was right. It did
have an evil feel to it and we should have left. We should have left the evil
place. ..." Berem repeated this to himself several times, like a chant. Then
he fell silent.
No one moved or spoke and, after a moment, he began speaking so softly the
others were forced to lean close to hear. And they realized, slowly, that he
had forgotten they were there or even where he was. He had gone back to that
time.
"But there is one beautiful, beautiful object in the ruins: the base of a
broken column, encrusted with jewels!"-Berem's voice was soft with awe-"I have
never seen such beauty! Or such wealth! How can I leave it? Just one jewel!
Just one will make us rich! We can move to the city! My sister will have
suitors, as she deserves. I-I fall to my knees and I take out my knife. There
is one jewel-a green gemstone-that glitters brightly in the sunlight! It is
lovely beyond anything I have ever seen! I will take it. Thrusting the knife
blade"-here Berem made a swift motion with his hand-"into the stone beneath
the jewel, I begin to pry it out.
"My sister is horrified. She cries to me-she commands me to stop.
"This place is holy," she pleads. "The jewels belong to some god. This is
sacrilege, Berem!"
Berem shook his head, his face dark with remembered anger.
"I ignore her, though I feel a chill in my heart even as I pry at the jewel.
But I tell her-'If it belonged to the gods, they have abandoned it, as they
have abandoned us!' But she won't listen."
Berem's eyes flared open, they were cold and frightening to see. His voice
came from far away.
"She grabs me! Her fingernails dig into my arm! It hurts!
" 'Stop, Berem!' she commands me-me, her older brother! 'I will not let you
desecrate what belongs to the gods!'
"How dare she talk to me like that? I'm doing this for her! For our family!
She should not cross me! She knows what can happen when I get mad. Something
breaks in my head, flooding my brain. I can't think or see. I yell at
her-'Leave me be!'-but her hand grabs my knife hand, jarring the blade,
scratching the jewel.
Berem's eyes flashed with a crazed light. Surreptitiously Caramon laid his
hand on his dagger as the man's hands clenched to fists and his voice rose to
an almost hysterical pitch.
"I-I shove her ... not that hard ... I never meant to shove her that hard!
She's falling! I've got to catch her, but I can't. I'm moving too slowly, too
slowly. Her head... hits the column. A sharp rock pierces her here"-Berem
touched his temple- "blood covers her face, spills over the jewels. They don't
shine anymore. Her eyes don't shine either. They stare at me, but they don't
see me. And then . . . and then . . ."
His body shuddered convulsively.
"It is a horrible sight, one I see in my sleep every time I close my eyes! It
is like the Cataclysm, only during that, all was destroyed! This is a
creation, but what a ghastly, unholy creation! The ground splits open! Huge
columns begin to reform before my eyes. A temple springs up from a hideous
darkness below the ground. But it isn't a beautiful temple-it is horrible and
deformed. I see Darkness rise up before me, Darkness with five heads, all of
them twisting and writhing in my sight. The heads speak to me in a voice
colder than a tomb.
" 'Long ago was I banished from this world, and only through a piece of the
world may I enter again. The jeweled column was-for me-a locked door, keeping
me prisoner. You have freed me, mortal, and therefore I give you what you
seek-the green gemstone is yours!'
'There is terrible, mocking laughter. I feel a great pain in my chest. Looking
down, I see the green gemstone embedded in my flesh, even as you see it now.
Terrified by the hideous evil before me, stunned by my wicked act, I can do
nothing but stare as the dark, shadowy shape begins to grow clearer and
clearer. It is a dragon! I can see it now-a five-headed dragon such as I had
heard nightmarish tales about when I was a child!
"And I know then that once the dragon enters the world, we are doomed. For at
last I understand what I have done. This is the Queen of Darkness the clerics
teach us about. Banished long ago by the great Huma, she has long sought to
return. Now-by my folly-she will be able again to walk the land. One of the
huge heads snakes toward me, and I know I am going to die, for she must not
allow any to witness her return. I see the slashing teeth. I cannot move. I
don't care.
"And then, suddenly, my sister stands in front of me! She is alive, but when I
try to reach out to her, my hands touch nothing. I scream her name, 'Jasla!'
" 'Run, Berem!' she calls. 'Run! She cannot get past me, not yet! Run!'
"I stand staring for a moment. My sister hovers between me and the Dark Queen.
Horrified, I see the five heads rear back in anger, their screams split the
air. But they cannot pass my sister. And, even as I watch, the Queen's shape
begins to waver and dim. She is still there, a shadowy figure of evil, but
nothing more. But her power is great. She lunges for my sister...
"And then I turn and run. I run and run, the green gemstone burning a hole in
my chest. I run until everything goes black."
Berem stopped speaking. Sweat trickled down his face as if he had truly been
running for days. None of the companions spoke. The dark tale might have
turned them to stone like the boulders around the black pool.
Finally Berem drew a shuddering breath. His eyes focused and he saw them once
more.
"There follows a long span of my life of which I know nothing. When I came to
myself, I had aged, even as you see me now. At first I told myself it was a
nightmare, a horrible dream. But then I felt the green gemstone burning in my
flesh, and I knew it was real. I had no idea where I was. Perhaps I had
traveled the length and breadth of Krynn in my wanderings. I longed
desperately to return to Neraka. Yet that was the one place I knew I couldn't
go. I didn't have the courage.
"Long years more I wandered, unable to find peace, unable to rest, dying only
to live again. Everywhere I went I heard stories of evil things abroad in the
land and I knew it was my fault. And then came the dragons and the dragonmen.
I alone knew what they meant. I alone knew the Queen had reached the summit of
her power and was trying to conquer the world; The one thing she lacks is me.
Why? I'm not certain. Except that I feel like someone who is trying to shut a
door another is trying to force open. And I am tired . . ."
Berem's voice faltered. "So tired," he said, his head dropping into his hands.
"I want it to end!"
The companions sat silently for long moments, trying to make sense of a story
that seemed like something an old nursemaid might have told in the dark hours
of the night.
"What must you do to shut this door?" Tanis asked Berem.
"I don't know," Berem said, his voice muffled. "I only know that I feel drawn
to Neraka, yet it's the one place on the face of Krynn I dare not enter!
That's-that's why I ran away."
"But you're going to enter it," Tanis said slowly and firmly. "You're going to
enter it with us. We'll be with you. You won't be alone."
Berem shivered and shook his head, whimpering. Then suddenly he stopped and
looked up, his face flushed. "Yes!" he cried. "I cannot stand any more! I will
go with you! You'll protect me-"
"We'll do our best," Tanis muttered, seeing Caramon roll his eyes, then look
away. "We'd better find the way out."
"I found it." Berem sighed. "I was nearly through, when I heard the dwarf cry
out. This way." He pointed to another narrow cleft between the rocks. Caramon
sighed, glancing ruefully at the scratches on his arms. One by one, the
companions entered the cleft.
Tanis was the last. Turning, he looked back once more upon the barren place.
Darkness was falling swiftly, the azure blue sky deepening to purple and
finally to black. The strange boulders were shrouded in the gathering gloom.
He could no longer see the dark pool of rock where Fizban had vanished.
It seemed odd to think of Flint being gone. There was a great emptiness inside
of him. He kept expecting to hear the dwarf's grumbling voice complain about
his various aches and pains or argue with the kender.
For a moment Tanis struggled with himself, holding onto his friend as long as
he could. Then, silently, he let Flint go. Turning, he crept through the
narrow cleft in the rocks, leaving Godshome, never to see it again.

Once back on the trail, they followed it until they came to a small cave. Here
they huddled together, not daring to build a fire this near to Neraka, the
center of the might of the dragonarmies. For a while, no one spoke, then they
began to talk about Flint-letting him go, as Tanis had done. Their memories
were good ones, recalling Flint's rich, adventurous life.
They laughed heartily when Caramon recounted the tale of the disastrous
camping trip-how he had overturned the boat, trying to catch a fish by hand,
knocking Flint into the water. Tanis recalled how Tas and the dwarf had met
when Tas "accidentally" walked off with a bracelet Flint had made and was
trying to sell at a fair. Tika remembered the wonderful toys he had made for
her. She recalled his kindness when her father disappeared, how he had taken
the young girl into his own home until Otik had given her a place to live and
work.
All these and more memories they recalled until, by the end of the evening,
the bitter sting had gone out of their grief, leaving only the ache of loss.
That is-for most of them.
Late, late in the dark watches of the night, Tasslehoff sat outside the cave
entrance, staring up into the stars. Flint's helm was clutched in his small
hands, tears streamed unchecked down his face.

KENDER MOURNING SONG
Always before, the spring returned.
The bright world in its cycle spun
In air and flowers, grass and fern.
Assured and cradled by the sun.
Always before, you could explain
The turning darkness of the earth,
And how that dark embraced the rain.
And gave the ferns and flowers birth.
Already I forget those things.
And how a vein of gold survives
The mining of a thousand springs,
The seasons of a thousand lives.
Now winter is my memory,
Now autumn, now the summer light-
So every spring from now will be
Another season into night.

5
Neraka.

As it turned out, the companions discovered it was going to be easy getting
into Neraka.
Deadly easy.
"What in the name of the gods is happening?" Caramon muttered as he and
Tanis-still dressed in their stolen dragonarmor-stared down into the plains
from their hidden vantage point in the mountains west of Neraka.
Writhing black lines snaked across the barren plain towards the only building
within a hundred miles-the Temple of the Queen of Darkness. It looked as
though hundreds of vipers were slithering down from the mountains, but these
were not vipers. These were the dragonarmies, thousands strong. The two men
watching saw here and there the flash of sun off spear and shield. Flags of
black and red and blue fluttered from tall poles that bore the emblems of the
Dragon Highlords. Flying high above them, dragons filled the air with a
hideous rainbow of colors-reds, blues, greens, and blacks. Two gigantic flying
citadels hovered over the walled Temple compound; the shadows they cast made
it perpetual night down below.
"You know," said Caramon slowly, "it's a good thing that old man attacked us
back there. We would have been massacred if we'd ridden our brass dragons into
this mob."
"Yes," Tanis agreed absently. He'd been thinking about that "old man," adding
a few things together, remembering what he himself had seen and what Tas had
told him. The more he thought about Fizban, the closer he came to realizing
the truth. His skin "shivered," as Flint would have said.
Recalling Flint, a sudden swift aching in his heart made him put thoughts of
the dwarf-and the old man-from his mind. He had enough to worry about now, and
there would be no old mages to help him out of this one.
"I don't know what's happening," Tanis said quietly, "but it's working for us
now, not against us. Remember what Elistan said once? It is written in the
Disks of Mishakal that evil turns upon itself. The Dark Queen is gathering her
forces, for whatever reason. Probably preparing to deal Krynn a final
deathblow. But we can slip in easily among the confusion. No one will notice
two guards bringing in a group of prisoners."
"You hope," Caramon added gloomily.
"I pray," Tanis said softly.
The captain of the guard at the gates of Neraka was a sorely harassed man. The
Dark Queen had called a Council of War and, for only the second time since the
war began, the Dragon Highlords on the continent of Ansalon were gathering
together. Four days ago, they began arriving in Neraka and, since then, the
captain's life had been a waking nightmare.
The Highlords were supposed to enter the city by order of rank. Thus Lord
Ariakas entered first with his personal retinue-his troops, his bodyguards,
his dragons; then Kitiara, the Dark Lady, with her personal retinue-her
troops, her bodyguards, her dragons; then Lucien of Takar with his personal
retinue, his troops and so forth through all the Highlords down to Dragon
Highlord Toede, of the eastern front.
The system was designed to do more than simply honor the higher-ups. It was
intended to move large numbers of troops and dragons, as well as all their
supplies, into and out of a complex that had never been intended to hold large
concentrations of troops. Nor, as distrustful as the Highlords were of each
other, could any Highlord be persuaded to enter with a single draconian less
than any other Highlord. It was a good system and it should have worked.
Unfortunately, there was trouble from the very outset when Lord Ariakas
arrived two days late.
Had he done this purposefully to create the confusion he knew must result? The
captain did not know and he dared not ask, but he had his own ideas. This
meant, of course, that those Highlords who arrived before Ariakas were forced
to camp on the plains outside the Temple compound until the Lord made his
entry. This provoked trouble. The draconians, goblins, and human mercenaries
wanted the pleasures of the camp city that had been hastily erected in the
Temple square. They had marched long distances and were justifiably angry when
this was denied them.
Many sneaked over the walls at night, drawn to the taverns as flies to honey.
Brawls broke out-each Highlord's troops being loyal to that particular
Highlord and no other. The dungeons below the Temple were filled to
overflowing. The captain finally ordered his forces to haul the drunks out of
the city in wheelbarrows every morning and dump them on the plains where they
were retrieved by their irate commanders.
Quarrels started among the dragons, too, as each lead dragon sought to
establish dominance over the others. A big green. Cyan Bloodbane, had actually
killed a red in a fight over a deer. Unfortunately for Cyan, the red had been
a pet of the Dark Queen's. The big green was now imprisoned in a cave beneath
Neraka, where his howls and violent tail-lashings caused many up above to
think an earthquake had struck.
The captain had not slept well in two nights. When word reached him early in
the morning of the third day that Ariakas had arrived, the captain very nearly
gave thanks on his knees. Hurriedly marshalling his staff, he gave orders for
the grand entrance to begin. Everything proceeded smoothly until several
hundred of Toede's draconians saw Ariakas's troops entering the Temple square.
Drunk and completely out of the control of their ineffectual leaders, they
attempted to crowd in as well. Angry at the disruption, Ariakas's captains
ordered their men to fight back. Chaos erupted.
Furious, the Dark Queen sent out her own troops, armed with whips, steel-link
chains, and maces. Black-robed magic-users walked among them, as well as dark
clerics. Between the whippings, head-bashings, and spellcasting, order was
eventually restored. Lord Ariakas and his troops finally entered the Temple
compound with dignity-if not grace.
It might have been mid-afternoon-by now the captain had completely lost track
of time (those blasted citadels cut off the sunlight)-when one of the guards
appeared, requesting his presence at the front gates.
"What is it?" the captain snarled impatiently, fixing the guard with a
piercing gaze from his one good eye (the other had been lost in a battle with
the elves in Silvanesti). "Another fight? Knock 'em both over the head and
haul 'em to prison. I'm sick-"
"N-not a fight, sir," stuttered the guard, a young goblin terrified of his
human captain. "The watch at the g-gate sent m-me. T-Two officers with
p-prisoners want p-permission to enter."
The captain swore in frustration. What next? He almost told the goblin to go
back and let them enter. The place was crawling with slaves and prisoners
already. A few more wouldn't matter. Highlord Kitiara's troops were gathering
outside, ready to come in. He had to be on hand to extend official greetings.
"What kind of prisoners?" he asked irritably, trying hastily to catch up on
reams of paperwork before leaving to attend the ceremony. "Drunken draconians?
Just take them..."
"I-I think you should c-come, s-sir." The goblin was sweating, and sweating
goblins are not pleasant to be around, "Th-There's a couple of h-humans, and a
k-kender."
The captain wrinkled his nose. "I said-" He stopped. "A kender?" he said,
looking up with considerable interest. "There wasn't, by any chance, a dwarf?"
"Not as I know of, sir," answered the poor goblin. "But I might have missed
one in the c-crowd, sir."
"I'll come," the captain said. Hastily strapping on his sword, he followed the
goblin down to the front gate.
Here, for the moment, peace reigned. Ariakas's troops were all within the tent
city now. Kitiara's were jostling and fighting, forming ranks to march inside.
It was nearly time for the ceremony to begin. The captain cast a swift glance
over the group standing before him, just inside the front gates.
Two dragonarmy officers of high rank stood guard over a group of sullen
prisoners. The captain studied the prisoners carefully, remembering orders he
had received only two days ago. He was to watch, in particular, for a dwarf
traveling with a kender. There might possibly be an elflord with them and an
elfwoman with long, silver hair-in reality, a silver dragon. These had been
the companions of the elfwoman they were holding prisoner, and the Dark Queen
expected any or all of them to attempt to rescue her.
Here was a kender, all right. But the woman had curly red hair, not silver,
and if she was a dragon, the captain would eat his platemail. The stooped old
man with the long scraggly beard was certainly human, not a dwarf or an
elflord. All in all, he couldn't imagine why two dragonarmy officers had
bothered taking the motley group prisoner.
"Just slit their throats and be done with it instead of bothering us," the
captain said sourly. "We're short of prison space as it is. Take them away."
"But what a waste!" said one of the officers-a giant of a man with arms like
tree-trunks. Grabbing the red-headed girl, he dragged her forward. "I've heard
they're paying good money in the slave markets for her kind!"
"You're right there," the captain muttered, running his good eye over the
girl's voluptuous body which was enhanced-to his mind-by her chain-mail armor.
"But I don't know what you think you'll get for this lot!" He poked the
kender, who gave an indignant cry, and was instantly shushed by the other
dragonarmy guard. "Kill 'em-"
The big dragonarmy officer seemed confounded by this argument, blinking in
obvious confusion. Before he could reply, however, the other officer-who had
been quiet and hidden in the background-stepped forward.
"The human's a magic-user," the officer said. "And we believe the kender is a
spy. We caught him near Dargaard Keep."
"Well, why didn't you say so in the first place," the captain snapped,
"instead of wasting my time. Yeah, go ahead and haul 'em inside," he spoke
hurriedly as horns blared. It was time for the ceremony, the massive iron
gates were shivering, beginning to swing open. "I'll sign your papers. Hand
them over."
"We don't have-" began the big officer.
"What papers do you mean?" the bearded officer cut in, fumbling in a pouch.
"Identification-"
"Naw!" said the captain, fuming in impatience. "Your leave of absence from
your commander to bring in prisoners."
"We weren't given that, sir," said the bearded officer coolly. "Is that a new
order?"
"No, it isn't," said the captain, eyeing them suspiciously. "How'd you get
through the lines without it? And how do you expect to get back? Or were you
going back? Thinking of taking a little trip with the money you'd make from
these, were you?"
"Naw!" The big officer flushed angrily, his eyes flaring. "Our commander just
forgot, maybe, that's all. He's got a lot on his mind, and there's not much
mind there to handle it, if you take my meaning." He glared at the captain
menacingly.
The gates swung open. Horns blared loudly. The captain sighed in frustration.
Right now he was supposed to be standing in the center, prepared to greet the
Lord Kitiara. He beckoned to some of the Dark Queen's guards who were standing
nearby.
"Take 'em below," he said, twitching his uniform into place. "We'll show them
what we do to deserters!"
As he hurried off, he saw with pleasure that the Queen's guards were carrying
out their assignments, quickly and efficiently grabbing the two dragonarmy
officers and divesting them of their weapons.
Caramon cast an alarmed glance at Tanis as the draconians grasped him by the
arms and unbuckled his sword belt. Tika's eyes were wide with fear-this
certainly wasn't the way things were supposed to be going. Berem, his face
nearly hidden by his false whiskers, looked as if he might cry or run or both.
Even Tasslehoff seemed a bit stunned by the sudden change in plans. Tanis
could see the kender's eyes dart around, seeking escape.
Tanis thought frantically. He believed he had considered every possible
occurrence when he had formed this plan for entering Neraka, but he'd
obviously missed one. Certainly being arrested as a deserter from the
dragonarmies had never crossed his mind! If the guards took them into the
dungeons, it would be all over. The moment they took off his helmet, they'd
recognize him as half-elven. Then they'd examine the others more closely . . .
they'd discover Berem. . .
He was the danger. Without him Caramon and the others might still pull it off.
Without him . . .
There was a blaring of trumpets and wild cheering from the crowd as a huge
blue dragon bearing a Dragon Highlord entered the Temple gates. Seeing the
Highlord, Tanis's heart constricted with pain and, suddenly, a wild elation.
The crowd surged forward roaring Kitiara's name and, for the moment, the
guards were distracted as they looked to see if the Highlord might be in
danger. Tanis leaned as near Tasslehoff as he could.
"Tas!" he said swiftly, under the cover of the noise, hoping Tas remembered
enough elven to understand him. "Tell Caramon to keep up the act. No matter
what I do, he must trust me! Everything depends on that. No matter what I do.
Understand?"
Tas stared at Tanis in astonishment, then nodded hesitantly. It had been a
long time since he'd been forced to translate elven.
Tanis could only hope he understood. Caramon spoke no elven at all, and Tanis
didn't dare risk speaking Common, even if his voice was swallowed by the noise
of the crowd. As it was, one of the guards wrenched his arm painfully,
ordering him to be silent.
The noise died down, the crowd was bullied and shoved back into place. Seeing
things under control, the guards turned to lead their prisoners away.
Suddenly Tanis stumbled and fell, tripping his guard, who sprawled headlong
into the dust.
"Get up, slime!" Cursing, the other guard cuffed Tanis with the handle of a
whip, striking him across the face. The half-elf lunged for the guard,
grabbing the whip handle and the hand that held it. Tanis yanked with all his
strength, and his sudden move sent the guard head over heels. For a split
second, he was free.
Hurling himself forward, aware of the guards behind him, aware also of
Caramon's astonished face, Tanis threw himself toward the regal figure riding
the blue dragon.
"Kitiara!" he yelled, just as the guards caught hold of him. "Kitiara!" he
screamed, a hoarse, ragged shout that seemed torn from his chest. Fighting the
guards, he managed to free one hand. With it, he gripped his helmet and tore
it off his head, hurling it to the ground.
The Highlord in the night-blue, dragonscale armor turned upon hearing her
name. Tanis could see her brown eyes widen in astonishment beneath the hideous
dragonmask she wore. He could see the fiery eyes of the male blue dragon turn
to gaze at him as well.
"Kitiara!" Tanis shouted. Shaking off his captors with a strength born of
desperation, he dove forward again. But draconians in the crowd flung
themselves on him, knocking him to the ground, where they held him pinned by
his arms. Still Tanis struggled, twisting to look into the eyes of the
Highlord.
"Halt, Skie," Kitiara said, placing a gloved hand commandingly on the dragon's
neck. Skie stopped obediently, his clawed feet slipping slightly on the
cobblestones of the street. But the dragon's eyes, as they glared at Tanis,
were filled with jealousy and hatred.
Tanis held his breath. His heart beat painfully. His head ached and blood
dribbled into one eye, but he didn't notice. He waited for the shout that
would tell him Tasslehoff hadn't understood, that his friends had tried to
come to his aid. He waited for Kitiara to look behind him and see Caramon-her
half-brother-and recognize him. He didn't dare turn around to see what had
happened to his friends. He could only hope Caramon had sense enough-and faith
enough in him-to keep out of sight.
And now here came the captain, his cruel one-eyed face distorted in rage.
Raising a booted foot, the captain aimed a kick for Tanis's head, preparing to
render this meddlesome troublemaker unconscious.
"Stop," said a voice.
The captain halted so suddenly that he staggered off-balance.
"Let him go." The same voice.
Reluctantly, the guards released Tanis and fell back away from him at an
imperious gesture from the Dark Lady.
"What is so important, commander, that you disrupt my entrance?" she asked in
cool tones, her voice sounding deep and distorted behind the dragonhelm.
Stumbling to his feet, weak with relief, his head swimming from his struggles
with the guards, Tanis made his way forward to stand beside her. As he drew
nearer, he saw a flicker of amusement in Kitiara's brown eyes. She was
enjoying this; a new game with an old toy. Clearing his throat, Tanis spoke
boldly.
"These idiots arrested me for desertion," he stated, "all because that
imbecile Bakaris forgot to give me the proper papers."
"I'll see he pays the penalty for having caused you trouble, good Tanthalasa,"
replied Kitiara. Tanis could hear the laughter in her voice. "How dare you?"
she added, whirling to glower at the captain, who cringed as the helmed visage
turned toward him.
"I-I was j-just following or-orders, my lord," he stuttered, shaking like a
goblin.
"Be off with you, or you'll feed my dragon," Kitiara commanded peremptorily,
waving her hand. Then, in the same graceful gesture, she held out her gloved
hand to Tanis. "May I offer you a ride, commander? To make amends, of course."
"Thank you, lord," Tanis said.
Casting a dark glance at the captain, Tanis accepted Kitiara's hand and swung
himself up beside her on the back of the blue dragon. His eyes quickly scanned
the crowd as Kitiara ordered Skie forward once more. For a moment, his
agonized search could detect nothing, then he sighed in relief as he saw
Caramon and the others being led away by the guards. The big man glanced up at
him as they passed, a hurt and puzzled expression on his face. But he kept
moving. Either Tas had passed along the message or the big man had sense
enough to keep up the act. Or perhaps Caramon trusted him anyway. Tanis didn't
know. His friends were safe now-at least safer than they were with him.
This might be the last time I ever see them, he thought suddenly, with pain.
Then he shook his head. He could not let himself dwell on that. Turning away,
he discovered Kitiara's brown eyes regarding him with an odd mixture of
cunning and undisguised admiration.
Tasslehoff stood on his tiptoes, trying to see what became of Tanis. He heard
shouts and yells, then a moment of silence. Then he saw the half-elf climb
onto the dragon and sit beside Kitiara. The procession started up again. The
kender thought he saw Tanis look his way, but-if so-it was without
recognition. The guards shoved their remaining prisoners through the jostling
crowd, and Tas lost sight of his friend.
One of the guards prodded Caramon in his ribs with a short sword.
"So your buddy gets a lift from the Highlord and you rot in prison," the
draconian said, chuckling.
"He won't forget me," Caramon muttered.
The draconian grinned and nudged its partner, who was dragging Tasslehoff
along, one clawed hand on the kender's collar. "Sure, he'll come back for
you-if he can manage to find his way out of her bed!"
Caramon flushed, scowling. Tasslehoff shot the big warrior an alarmed glance.
The kender hadn't had a chance to give Caramon Tanis's last message, and he
was terrified the big man would ruin everything, although Tas wasn't really
certain what there was left to ruin. Still. . .
But Caramon only tossed his head in injured dignity. "I'll be out before
nightfall," he rumbled in his deep baritone. "We've been through too much
together. He wouldn't let me down."
Catching a wistful note in Caramon's voice, Tas wriggled in anxiety, longing
to get close enough to Caramon to explain. But at that moment Tika cried out
in anger. Twisting his head, Tas saw the guard rip her blouse; there were
already bloody gashes made by its clawing hands on her neck. Caramon shouted,
but too late. Tika struck the guard with a backhand on the side of its
reptilian face in the best barroom tradition.
Furious, the draconian hurled Tika to the street and raised its whip. Tas
heard Caramon suck in his breath and the kender cringed, preparing himself for
the end.
"Hey! Don't damage her!" Caramon roared. "Unless you want to be held
accountable. Lord Kitiara told us to get six silver pieces for her, and we
won't do it if she's marked up!"
The draconian hesitated. Caramon was a prisoner, that was true. But the guards
had all seen the welcome reception his friend had received from the Dark Lady.
Did they dare take a chance on offending another man who might stand high in
her favor? Apparently they decided not. Roughly dragging Tika to her feet,
they shoved her forward.
Tasslehoff breathed a sigh of relief, then stole a worried peek back at Berem,
thinking that the man had been very quiet. He was right. The Everman might
have been in a different world. His eyes, wide open, were fixed in a strange
stare. His mouth gaped, he almost appeared half-witted. At least he didn't
look like he was about to cause trouble. It seemed that Caramon was going to
continue playing his role and that Tika would be all right. For the time
being, no one needed him. Sighing in relief, Tas began to look with interest
around the Temple compound, at least as well as he could with the draconian
hanging onto his collar.
He was sorry he did. Neraka looked exactly like what it was-a small, ancient
impoverished village built to serve those who inhabited the Temple, now
overrun by the tent city that had sprouted up around it like fungus.
At the far end of the compound the Temple itself loomed over the city like a
carrion bird of prey-its twisted, deformed, obscene structure seeming to
dominate even the mountains on the horizon behind. Once anyone set foot in
Neraka, his eyes went first to the Temple. After that, no matter where else he
looked or what other business occupied him, the Temple was always there, even
at night, even in his dreams.
Tas took one look, then hurriedly glanced away, feeling a cold sickness creep
over him. But the sights before him were almost worse. The tent city was
filled with troops; draconians and human mercenaries, goblins and hobgoblins
spilled out of the hastily constructed bars and brothels onto the filthy
streets. Slaves of every race had been brought in to serve their captors and
provide for their unholy pleasures. Gully dwarves swarmed underfoot like rats,
living off the refuse. The stench was overpowering, the sights were like
something from the Abyss. Although it was midday, the square was dark and
chill as night. Glancing up, Tas saw the huge flying citadels, floating above
the Temple in terrible majesty, their dragons circling them in unceasing
watchfulness.
When they had first started down the crowded streets, Tas had hoped he might
have a chance to break free. He was an expert in melting in with a crowd. He
saw Caramon's eyes flick about, too; the big man was thinking the same thing.
But after walking only a few blocks, after seeing the citadels keeping their
dreadful watch above, Tas realized it was hopeless. Apparently Caramon reached
the same conclusion, for the kender saw the warrior's shoulders slump.
Appalled and horrified, Tas suddenly thought of Laurana, being held prisoner
here. The kender's buoyant spirit seemed finally crushed by the weight of the
darkness and evil all around him, darkness and evil he had never dreamed
existed.
Their guards hurried them along, pushing and shoving their way through the
drunken, brawling soldiers, down the clogged and narrow streets. Try as he
might, Tas couldn't figure out any way of relaying Tanis's message to Caramon.
Then they were forced to come to a halt as a contingent of Her Dark Majesty's
troops, lined up shoulder-to-shoulder, came marching through the streets.
Those who did not get out of their way were hurled bodily to the sidewalk by
the draconian officers or were simply knocked down and trampled. The
companions' guards hastily shoved them up against a crumbling wall and ordered
them to stand still until the soldiers had passed.
Tasslehoff found himself flattened between Caramon on one side and a draconian
on the other. The guard had loosened its clawed grip on Tas's shirt, evidently
figuring that not even a kender would be foolish enough to try to escape in
this mob. Though Tas could feel the reptile's black eyes on him, he was able
to squirm near enough to Caramon to talk. He hoped he wasn't overheard, and
didn't expect to be, with all the head-bashing and boot-thumping going on
around him.
"Caramon!" Tas whispered. "I've got a message. Can you hear me?"
Caramon did not turn, but kept staring straight ahead, his face set rock-hard.
But Tas saw one eyelid flutter.
"Tanis said to trust him!" Tas whispered swiftly. "No matter what. And... and
to... keep up the act... I think that's what he said."
Tas saw Caramon frown.
"He spoke in elven," Tas added huffily. "And it was hard to hear."
Caramon's expression did not change. If anything, it grew darker.
Tas swallowed. Edging closer, he pressed up against the wall right behind the
big warrior's broad back. "That . . . that Dragon Highlord," the kender said
hesitantly. 'That . . . was Kitiara, wasn't it?"
Caramon did not answer. But Tas saw the muscles in the man's jaw tighten, he
saw a nerve begin to twitch in Caramon's neck.
Tas sighed. Forgetting where he was, he raised his voice. "You do trust him,
don't you, Caramon? Because-"
Without warning, Tas's draconian guard turned and bashed the kender across the
mouth, slamming him into the wall. Dazed with pain, Tasslehoff sank down to
the ground. A dark shadow bent over him. His vision fuzzy, Tas couldn't see
who it was and he braced himself for another blow. Then he felt strong, gentle
hands lift him by his fleecy vest.
"I told you not to damage them," growled Caramon.
"Bah! A kender!" The draconian spat.
The troops had nearly all passed by now. Caramon set Tas on his feet. The
kender tried to stand up, but for some reason the sidewalk kept sliding out
from underneath him.
"I-I'm sorry . . ." he heard himself mumble. "Legs acting funny..." Finally he
felt himself hoisted in the air and, with a protesting squeak, was flung over
Caramon's broad shoulder like a meal sack.
"He's got information," Caramon said in his deep voice. "I hope you haven't
addled his brain so that he's lost it. The Dark Lady won't be pleased."
"What brain?" snarled the draconian, but Tas-from his upside-down position on
Caramon's back-thought the creature appeared a bit shaken.
They began walking again. Tas's head hurt horribly, his cheek stung. Putting
his hand to it, he felt sticky blood where the draconian's claws had dug into
his skin. There was a sound in his ears like a hundred bees had taken up
residence in his brain. The world seemed to be slowly circling around him,
making his stomach queasy, and being jounced around on Caramon's armor-plated
back wasn't helping.
"How much farther is it?" He could feel Caramon's voice vibrate in the big
man's chest. 'The little bastard's heavy."
In answer, the draconian pointed a long, bony claw.
With a great effort, trying to take his mind off his pain and dizziness, Tas
twisted his head to see. He could manage only a glance, but it was enough. The
building had been growing larger and larger as they approached until it
filled, not only the vision, but the mind as well.
Tas slumped back. His sight was growing dim and he wondered drowsily why it
was getting so foggy. The last thing he remembered was hearing the words, "To
the dungeons . . . beneath the Temple of Her Majesty, Takhisis, Queen of
Darkness."

6
Tanis bargains. Gakhan investigates.

"Wine?"
"No."
Kitiara shrugged. Taking the pitcher from the bowl of snow in which it rested
to keep cool, she slowly poured some for herself, idly watching the blood-red
liquid run out of the crystal carafe and into her glass. Then she carefully
set the crystal carafe back into the snow and sat down opposite Tanis,
regarding him coolly.
She had taken off the dragon helm, but she wore her armor still-the night-blue
armor, gilded with gold, that fit over her lithe body like scaled skin. The
light from the many candles in the room gleamed in the polished surfaces and
glinted off the sharp metal edges until Kitiara seemed ablaze in flame. Her
dark hair, damp with perspiration, curled around her face. Her brown eyes were
bright as fire, shadowed by long, dark lashes.
"Why are you here, Tanis?" she asked softly, running her finger along the rim
of her glass as she gazed steadily at him.
"You know why," he answered briefly.
"Laurana, of course," Kitiara said.
Tanis shrugged, careful to keep his face a mask, yet fearing that this
woman-who sometimes knew him better than he knew himself-could read every
thought.
"You came alone?" Kitiara asked, sipping at the wine.
"Yes," Tanis replied, returning her gaze without faltering.
Kitiara raised an eyebrow in obvious disbelief.
"Flint's dead," he added, his voice breaking. Even in his fear, he still could
not think of his friend without pain. "And Tasslehoff wandered off somewhere.
I couldn't find him. I... I didn't really want to bring him anyway."
"I can understand," Kit said wryly. "So Flint is dead."
"Like Sturm," Tanis could not help but add through clenched teeth.
Kit glanced at him sharply. "The fortunes of war, my dear," she said. "We were
both soldiers, he and I. He understands. His spirit bears me no malice."
Tanis choked angrily, swallowing his words. What she said was true. Sturm
would understand.
Kitiara was silent as she watched Tanis's face a few moments. Then she set the
glass down with a clink.
"What about my brothers?" she asked. "Where-"
"Why don't you just take me to the dungeons and interrogate me?" Tanis
snarled. Rising out of his chair, he began to pace the luxurious room.
Kitiara smiled, an introspective, thoughtful smile. "Yes," she said, "I could
interrogate you there. And you would talk, dear Tanis. You would tell me all I
wanted to hear, and then you would beg to tell me more. Not only do we have
those who are skilled in the art of torture, but they are passionately
dedicated to their profession." Rising languorously, Kitiara walked over to
stand in front of Tanis Her wine glass in one hand, she placed her other hand
on his chest and slowly ran her palm up over his shoulder. "But this is not an
interrogation. Say, rather, it is a sister, concerned about her family. Where
are my brothers?"
"I don't know," Tanis said. Catching her wrist firmly in his hand, he held her
hand away from him. "They were both lost in the Blood Sea. "
"With the Green Gemstone Man?"
"With the Green Gemstone Man."
"And how did you survive?"
"Sea elves rescued me."
"Then they might have rescued the others?"
"Perhaps. Perhaps not. I am elven, after all. The others were human."
Kitiara stared at Tanis long moments. He still held her wrist in his hand.
Unconsciously, under her penetrating gaze, his fingers closed around it.
"You're hurting me . . ." Kit whispered softly. "Why did you come, Tanis? To
rescue Laurana... alone? Even you were never that foolish-"
"No," Tanis said, tightening his grasp on Kitiara's arm. "I came to make a
trade. Take me. Let her go."
Kitiara's eye opened wide. Then, suddenly, she threw back her head and
laughed. With a quick, easy move, she broke free of Tanis's grip and, turning,
walked over to the table to refill her wine glass.
She grinned at him over her shoulder. "Why, Tanis," she said, laughing again,
"what are you to me that I should make this trade?"
Tanis felt his face flush. Still grinning, Kitiara continued.
"I have captured their Golden General, Tanis. I have taken their good-luck
charm, their beautiful elven warrior. She wasn't a bad general, either, for
that matter. She brought them the dragonlances and taught them to fight. Her
brother brought back the good dragons, but everyone credits her. She kept the
Knights together, when they should have split apart long before this. And you
want me to exchange her for"- Kitiara gestured contemptuously-"a half-elf
who's been wandering the countryside in the company of kender, barbarians, and
dwarves!"
Kitiara began to laugh again, laughing so hard she was forced to sit down and
wipe tears from her eyes. "Really, Tanis, you have a high opinion of yourself.
What did you think I'd take you back for? Love?"
There as a subtle change in Kit's voice, her laugh seemed forced. Frowning
suddenly, she twisted the wineglass in her hand.
Tanis did not respond. He could only stand before her, his skin burning at her
ridicule. Kitiara stared at him, then lowered her gaze.
"Suppose I said yes?" she asked in a cold voice, her eyes on the glass in her
hand. "What could you give me in return for what I would lose?"
Tanis drew a deep breath. "The commander of your forces is dead," he said,
keeping his voice even. "I know. Tas told me he killed him. I'll take his
place."
"You'd serve under ... in the dragonarmies?" Kit's eyes widened in genuine
astonishment.
"Yes." Tanis gritted his teeth. His voice was bitter. "We've lost anyway, I've
seen your floating citadels. We can't win, even if the good dragons stayed.
And they won't-the people will send them back. The people never trusted them
anyway, not really. I care for only one thing-let Laurana go free, unharmed."
"I truly believe you would do this," Kitiara said softly, marveling. For long
moments she stared at him. "I'll have to consider..."
Then, as if arguing with herself, she shook her head. Putting the glass to her
lips, she swallowed the wine, set the glass down, and rose to her feet.
"I'll consider," she repeated. "But now I must leave you, Tanis. There is a
meeting of the Dragon Highlords tonight. They have come from all over Ansalon
to attend. You are right, of course. You have lost the war. Tonight we make
plans to clench the fist of iron. You will attend me. I will present you to
Her Dark Majesty."
"And Laurana?" Tanis persisted.
"I said I would consider it!" A dark line marred the smooth skin between
Kitiara's feathery eyebrows. Her voice was sharp. "Ceremonial armor will be
brought to you. Be dressed and ready to accompany me within the hour." She
started to go, then turned to face Tanis once more. "My decision may depend on
how you conduct yourself this evening," she said softly. "Remember,
Half-Elven, from this moment you serve me."
The brown eyes glittered clear and cold as they held Tanis in their thrall.
Slowly he felt the will of this woman press upon him until it was like a
strong hand forcing him down onto the polished marble floor. The might of the
dragonarmies was behind her, the shadow of the Dark Queen hovered around her,
imbuing her with a power Tanis had noticed before.
Suddenly Tanis felt the great distance between them. She was supremely,
superbly human. For only the humans were endowed with the lust for power so
strong that the raw passion of their nature could be easily corrupted. The
humans' brief lives were as flames that could burn with a pure light like
Gold-moon's candle, like Sturm's shattered sun. Or the flame could destroy, a
searing fire that consumed all in its path. He had warmed his cold, sluggish
elven blood by that fire, he had nurtured the flame in his heart. Now he saw
himself as he would become-as he had seen the bodies of those who died in the
flames of Tarsis-a mass of charred flesh-the heart black and still.
It was his due, the price he must pay. He would lay his soul upon this woman's
altar as another might lay a handful of silver upon a pillow. He owed Laurana
that much. She had suffered enough because of him. His death would not free
her but his life might.
Slowly, Tanis placed his hand over his heart and bowed.
"My lord," he said.
Kitiara walked into her private chamber, her mind in a turmoil. She felt her
blood pulse through her veins. Excitement, desire, the glorious elation of
victory made her more drunk than the wine. Yet beneath was a nagging doubt,
all the more irritating because it turned the elation flat and stale. Angrily
she tried to banish it from her mind, but it was brought sharply into focus as
she opened the door to her room.
The servants had not expected her so soon. The torches had not been lit; the
fire was laid, but not burning. Irritably she reached for the bell rope that
would send them scurrying in to be berated for their laxness, when suddenly a
cold and fleshless hand closed over her wrist.
The touch of that hand sent a burning sensation of cold through her bones and
blood until it nearly froze her heart. Kitiara gasped with the pain and
started to pull free, but the hand held her fast.
"You have not forgotten our bargain?"
"No, of course not!" Kitiara said. Trying to keep the quiver of fear from her
voice, she commanded sternly, "Let me go!"
The hand slowly released its grip. Kitiara hurriedly snatched her arm away,
rubbing the flesh that-even in that short span of time-had turned bluish
white. "The elfwoman will be yours-when the Queen has finished with her, of
course."
"Of course. I would not want her otherwise. A living woman is of no use to
me-not like a living man is of use to you . . ." The dark figure's voice
lingered unpleasantly over the words.
Kitiara cast a scornful glance at the pallid face, the flickering eyes that
floated- disembodied-above the black armor of the knight.
"Don't be a fool, Soth," she said, pulling the bell rope hastily. She felt a
need for light. "I am able to separate the pleasures of the flesh from the
pleasures of business-something you were unable to do, from what I know of
your life."
"Then what are your plans for the half-elf?" Lord Soth asked, his voice
seeming-as usual-to come from far below ground.
"He will be mine, utterly and completely," Kitiara said, gently rubbing her
injured wrist.
Servants hurried in with hesitant, sideways glances at the Dark Lady, fearing
her notorious explosions of wrath. But Kitiara, preoccupied with her thoughts,
ignored them. Lord Soth faded back into the shadows as always when the candles
were lit.
"The only way to possess the half-elf is to make him watch as I destroy
Laurana," Kitiara continued.
"That is hardly the way to win his love," Lord Soth sneered.
"I don't want his love." Pulling off her gloves and unbuckling her armor,
Kitiara laughed shortly. "I want him! As long as she lives, his thoughts will
be of her and of the noble sacrifice he has made. No, the only way he will be
mine-totally-is to be ground beneath the heel of my boot until he is nothing
more than a shapeless mass. Then, he will be of use to me."
"Not for long," Lord Soth remarked caustically. "Death will free him."
Kitiara shrugged. The servants had completed their tasks and vanished quickly.
The Dark Lady stood in the light, silent and thoughtful, her armor half-on and
half-off, her dragonhelm dangling from her hand.
"He has lied to me," she said softly, after a moment. Then, flinging the helm
down on a table, where it struck and shattered a dusty, porcelain vase. Kit
began to pace back and forth. "He has lied. My brothers did not die in the
Blood Sea-at least one of them lives, I know. And so does he-the Everman!"
Peremptorily, Kitiara flung open the door. "Gakhan!" she shouted.
A draconian hurried into the room.
"What news? Have they found that captain yet?"
"No, lord," the draconian replied. He was the same one who had followed Tanis
from the inn in Flotsam, the same who had helped trap Laurana. "He is
off-duty, lord," the creature added as if that explained everything.
Kitiara understood. "Search every beer tent and brothel until he is found.
Then bring him here. Lock him in irons if you have to. I'll question him when
I return from the Highlord's Assembly. No, wait. . ." Kitiara paused, then
added, "You question him. Find out if the half-elf was truly alone-as he
said-or if there were others with him. If so-"
The draconian bowed. "You will be informed at once, my lord."
Kitiara dismissed him with a gesture, and the draconian, bowing again, left,
shutting the door behind him. After standing thoughtfully for a moment,
Kitiara irritably ran her hand through her curly hair, then began yanking at
the straps of her armor once again.
"You will attend me, tonight," she said to Lord Soth, without looking at the
apparition of the death knight which, she assumed, was still in its same place
behind her. "Be watchful. Lord Ariakas will not be pleased with what I intend
to do."
Tossing the last piece of armor to the floor, Kitiara pulled off the leather
tunic and the blue silken hose. Then, stretching in luxurious freedom, she
glanced over her shoulder to see Lord Soth's reaction to her words. He was not
there. Startled, she glanced quickly around the room.
The spectral knight stood beside the dragonhelm that lay on the table amidst
pieces of the broken vase. With a wave of his fleshless hand, Lord Soth caused
the shattered remains of the vase to rise into the air and hover before him.
Holding them by the force of his magic, the death knight turned to regard
Kitiara with his flaming orange eyes as she stood naked before him. The
firelight turned her tanned skin golden, made her dark hair shine with warmth.
"You are a woman still, Kitiara," Lord Soth said slowly. "You love..."
The knight did not move or speak, but the pieces of the vase fell to the
floor. His pallid boot trod upon them as he passed, leaving no trace of his
passing.
"And you hurt," he said softly to Kitiara as he drew near her. "Do not deceive
yourself. Dark Lady. Crush him as you will, the half-elf will always be your
master-even in death."
Lord Soth melded with the shadows of the room. Kitiara stood for long moments,
staring into the blazing fire, seeking- perhaps-to read her fortune in the
flames.

Gakhan walked rapidly down the corridor of the Queen's palace, his clawed feet
clicking on the marble floors. The draconian's thoughts kept pace with his
stride. It had suddenly occurred to him where the captain might be found.
Seeing two draconians attached to Kitiara's command lounging at the end of the
corridor, Gakhan motioned them to fall in behind him. They obeyed immediately.
Though Gakhan held no rank in the dragonarmy-not any more-he was known
officially as the Dark Lady's military aide. Unofficially he was known as her
personal assassin.
Gakhan had been in Kitiara's service a long time. When word of the discovery
of the blue crystal staff had reached the Queen of Darkness and her minions,
few of the Dragon Highlords attached much importance to its disappearance.
Deeply involved in the war that was slowly stamping the life out of the
northern lands of Ansalon, something as trivial as a staff with healing powers
did not merit their attention. It would take a great deal of healing to heal
the world, Ariakas had stated, laughing, at a Council of War.
But two Highlords did take the disappearance of the staff seriously: one who
ruled that part of Ansalon where the staff had been discovered, and one who
had been born and raised in the area. One was a dark cleric, the other a
skilled swordswoman. Both knew how dangerous proof of the return of the
ancient gods could be to their cause.
They reacted differently, perhaps because of location. Lord Verminaard sent
out swarms of draconians, goblins, and hobgoblins with full descriptions of
the blue crystal staff and its powers. Kitiara sent Gakhan.
It was Gakhan who traced Riverwind and the blue crystal staff to the village
of Que-shu, and it was Gakhan who ordered the raid on the village,
systematically murdering most of the inhabitants in a search for the staff.
But he left Que-shu suddenly, having heard reports of the staff in Solace. The
draconian traveled to that town, only to find that he had missed it by a
matter of weeks. But there he discovered that the barbarians who carried the
staff had been joined by a group of adventurers, purportedly from Solace
according to the locals he "interviewed."
Gakhan was faced with a decision at this point. He could try and pick up their
trail, which had undoubtedly grown cold during the intervening weeks, or he
could return to Kitiara with descriptions of these adventurers to see if she
knew them. If so, she might be able to provide him with information that would
allow him to plot their movements in advance.
He decided to return to Kitiara, who was fighting in the north. Lord
Verminaard's thousands were much more likely to find the staff than Gakhan. He
brought complete descriptions of the adventurers to Kitiara, who was startled
to learn that they were her two half-brothers, her old comrades-in-arms, and
her former lover. Immediately Kitiara saw the workings of a great power here,
for she knew that this group of mismatched wanderers could be forged into a
dynamic force for either good or evil. She immediately took her misgivings to
the Queen of Darkness, who was already disturbed by the portent of the missing
constellation of the Valiant Warrior. At once the Queen knew she had been
correct, Paladine had returned to fight her. But by the time she realized the
danger, the damage had been done.
Kitiara set Gakhan back on the trail. Step by step, the clever draconian
traced the companions from Pax Tharkas to the dwarven kingdom. It was he who
followed them in Tarsis, and there he and the Dark Lady would have captured
them had it not been for Alhana Starbreeze and her griffons.
Patiently Gakhan kept on their trail. He knew of the group's separation,
hearing reports of them from Silvanesti-where they drove off the great green
dragon, Cyan Bloodbane, and then from Ice Wall, where Laurana killed the dark
elven magic-user, Feal-Thas. He knew of the discovery of the dragon orbs- the
destruction of one, the frail mage's acquisition of the other.
It was Gakhan who followed Tanis in Flotsam, and who was able to direct the
Dark Lady to them aboard the Perechon. But here again, as before, Gakhan moved
his game piece only to find an opponent's piece blocking a final move. The
draconian did not despair. Gakhan knew his opponent; he knew the great power
opposing him. He was playing for high stakes-very high stakes indeed.
Thinking of all this as he left the Dark Majesty's Temple- where even now the
Dragon Highlords were gathering for High Conclave-Gakhan entered the streets
of Neraka. It was light now, just at the end of day. As the sun slid down from
the sky, its last rays were freed from the shadow of the citadels. It burned
now above the mountains, gilding the still snowcapped peaks blood red.
Gakhan's reptilian gaze did not linger on the sunset. Instead it flicked among
the streets of the tent town, now almost completely empty since most of the
draconians were required to be in attendance upon their lords this evening.
The Highlords had a notable lack of trust in each other and in their Queen.
Murder had been done before in her chambers-and would, most likely, be done
again.
That did not concern Gakhan, however. In fact, it made his job easier. Quickly
he led the other draconians through the foul-smelling, refuse-littered
streets. He could have sent them on this mission without him, but Gakhan had
come to know his great opponent very well and he had a distinct feeling of
urgency. The wind of momentous events was starting to swirl into a huge
vortex. He stood in the eye now, but he knew it would soon sweep him up.
Gakhan wanted to be able to ride those winds, not be hurled upon the rocks.
"This is the place," he said, standing outside of a beer tent. A sign tacked
to a post read in Common-The Dragon's Eye, while a placard propped in front
stated in crudely lettered Common: "Dracos and goblins not allowed." Peering
through the filthy tent flap, Gakhan saw his quarry. Motioning to his escorts,
he thrust aside the flap and stepped inside.
An uproar greeted his entrance as the humans in the bar turned their bleary
eyes on the newcomers and-seeing three draconians-immediately began to shout
and jeer. The shouts and jeers died almost instantly, however, when Gakhan
removed the hood that covered his reptilian face. Everyone recognized Lord
Kitiara's henchman. A pall settled over the crowd thicker than the rank smoke
and foul odors that filled the bar. Casting fearful glances at the draconians,
the humans hunched their shoulders over their drinks and huddled down, trying
to become inconspicuous.
Gakhan's glittering black gaze swept over the crowd.
"There," he said in draconian, motioning to a human slouched over the bar. His
escorts acted instantly, seizing the one-eyed human soldier, who stared at
them in drunken terror.
"Take him outside, in back," Gakhan ordered.
Ignoring the bewildered captain's protests and pleadings, as well as the
baleful looks and muttered threats from the crowd, the draconians dragged
their captive out into the back. Gakhan followed more slowly.
It took only a few moments for the skilled draconians to sober their prisoner
up enough to talk-the man's hoarse screams caused many of the bar's patrons to
lose their taste for their liquor-but eventually he was able to respond to
Gakhan's questioning.
"Do you remember arresting a dragonarmy officer this afternoon on charges of
desertion?"
The captain remembered questioning many officers today ... he was a busy man .
. . they all looked alike. Gakhan gestured to the draconians, who responded
promptly and efficiently.
The captain screamed in agony. Yes, yes! He remembered! But it wasn't just one
officer. There had been two of them.
"Two?" Gakhan's eyes glittered. "Describe the other officer."
"A big human, really big. Bulging out of his uniform. And there had been
prisoners..."
"Prisoners!" Gakhan's reptilian tongue flicked in and out of his mouth.
"Describe them!"
The captain was only too happy to describe. "A human woman, red curls, breasts
the size of . . ."
"Get on with it," Gakhan snarled. His clawed hands trembled. He glanced at his
escorts and the draconians tightened their grip.
Sobbing, the captain gave hurried descriptions of the other two prisoners, his
words falling over themselves.
"A kender," Gakhan repeated, growing more and more excited. "Go on! An old
man, white beard-" He paused, puzzled. The old magic-user? Surely they would
not have allowed that decrepit old fool to accompany them on a mission so
important and fraught with peril. If not, then who? Someone else they had
picked up?
"Tell me more about the old man," Gakhan ordered.
The captain cast desperately about in his liquor-soaked and pain-stupefied
brain. The old man . . . white beard...
"Stooped?"
No ... tall, broad shoulders... blue eyes. Queer eyes- The captain was on the
verge of passing out. Gakhan clutched the man in his clawed hand, squeezing
his neck.
"What about the eyes?"
Fearfully the captain stared at the draconian who was slowly choking the life
from him. He babbled something.
"Young... too young!" Gakhan repeated in exultation. Now he knew! "Where are
they?"
The captain gasped out a word, then Gakhan hurled him to the floor with a
crash.
The whirlwind was rising. Gakhan felt himself being swept upwards. One thought
beat in his brain like the wings of a dragon as he and his escorts left the
tent, racing for the dungeons below the palace.
The Everman ... the Everman... the Everman!

7
The Temple of the Queen of Darkness.

"Hurt . . . lemme 'lone . . ."
"I know, Tas. I'm sorry, but you've got to wake up. Please, Tas!"
An edge of fear and urgency in the voice pierced the pain-laden mists in the
kender's mind. Part of him was jumping up and down, yelling at him to wake up.
But another part was all for drifting back into the darkness that-while
unpleasant- was better than facing the pain he knew was lying in wait for him,
ready to spring-
"Tas , . . Tas ..." A hand patted his cheek. The whispered voice was tense,
tight with terror kept under control. The kender knew suddenly that he had no
choice. He had to wake up. Besides, the jumping-up-and-down part of his brain
shouted, you might be missing something!
"Thank the gods!" Tika breathed as Tasslehoff's eyes opened wide and stared up
at her. "How do you feel?"
"Awful," Tas said thickly, struggling to sit up. As he had foreseen, pain
leaped out of a corner and pounced on him. Groaning, he clutched his head.
"I know... I'm sorry," Tika said again, stroking back his hair with a gentle
hand.
"I'm sure you mean well, Tika," Tas said miserably, "but would you mind not
doing that? It feels like dwarf hammers pounding on me."
Tika drew back her hand hurriedly. The kender peered around as best he could
through one good eye. The other had nearly swollen shut. "Where are we?"
"In the dungeons below the Temple," Tika said softly. Tas, sitting next to
her, could feel her shiver with fear and cold. Looking around, he could see
why. The sight made him shudder, too. Wistfully he remembered the good old
days when he hadn't known the meaning of the word of fear. He should have felt
a thrill of excitement. He was-after all-someplace he'd never been before and
there were probably lots of fascinating things to investigate.
But there was death here, Tas knew; death and suffering. He'd seen too many
die, too many suffer. His thoughts went to Flint, to Sturm, to Laurana....
Something had changed inside Tas. He would never again be like other kender.
Through grief, he had come to know fear, fear not for himself but for others.
He decided right now that he would rather die himself than lose anyone else he
loved.
You have chosen the dark path, but you have the courage to walk it, Fizban had
said.
Did he? Tas wondered. Sighing, he hid his face in his hands.
"No, Tas!" Tika said, shaking him. "Don't do this to us! We need you!"
Painfully Tas raised his head. "I'm all right," he said dully. "Where's
Caramon and Berem?"
"Over there," Tika gestured toward the far end of the cell. "The guards are
holding all of us together until they can find someone to decide what to do
with us. Caramon's being splendid," she added with a proud smile and a fond
glance at the big man, who was slouched, apparently sulking, in a far corner,
as far from his 'prisoners' as he could get. Then Tika's face grew fearful.
She drew Tas nearer. "But I'm worried about Berem! I think he's going crazy!"
Tasslehoff looked up quickly at Berem. The man was sitting on the cold, filthy
stone floor of the cell, his gaze abstracted, his head cocked as though
listening. The fake white beard Tika had made out of goat hair was torn and
bedraggled. It wouldn't take much for it to fall off completely, Tas realized
in alarm, glancing quickly out the cell door.
The dungeons were a maze of corridors tunneled out of the solid rock beneath
the Temple. They appeared to branch off in all directions from a central
guardroom, a small, round, open-ended room at the bottom of a narrow winding
staircase that bored straight down from the ground floor of the Temple. In the
guardroom, a large hobgoblin sat at a battered table beneath a torch, calmly
munching on bread and swilling it down with a jug of something. A ring of keys
hanging on a nail above his head proclaimed him the head jailor. He ignored
the companions; he probably couldn't see them clearly in the dim light anyway,
Tas realized, since the cell they were in was about a hundred paces away, down
a dark and dismal corridor.
Creeping over to the cell door, Tas peered down the corridor in the opposite
direction. Wetting a finger, he held it up in the air. That way was north, he
determined. Smoking, foul-smelling torches flickered in the dank air. A large
cell farther down was filled with draconians and goblins sleeping off drunken
revels. At the far end of the corridor beyond their cell stood a massive iron
door, slightly ajar. Listening carefully, Tas thought he could hear sounds
from beyond the door: voices, low moaning. That's another section of the
dungeon, Tas decided, basing his decision on past experience. The jailor
probably left the door ajar so he could make his rounds and listen for
disturbances.
"You're right, Tika," Tas whispered. "We're locked in some kind of holding
ceil, probably awaiting orders." Tika nodded. Caramon's act, if not completely
fooling the guards, was at least forcing them to think twice before doing
anything rash.
"I'm going over to talk to Berem," Tas said.
"No, Tas"-Tika glanced at the man uneasily-"I don't think-"
But Tas didn't listen. Taking one last look at the jailor, Tas ignored Tika's
soft remonstrations and crawled toward Berem with the idea of sticking the
man's false beard back on his face. He had just neared him and was reaching
out his small hand when suddenly the Everman roared and leaped straight at the
kender.
Startled, Tas fell backwards with a shriek. But Berem didn't even see him.
Yelling incoherently, he sprang over Tasslehoff and flung himself bodily
against the cell door.
Caramon was on his feet now-as was the hobgoblin.
Trying to appear irritated at having his rest disturbed, Caramon darted a
stern glance at Tasslehoff on the floor.
"What did you do to him?" the big man growled out of the side of his mouth.
"N-nothing, Caramon, honest!" Tas gasped. "He-he's crazy!"
Berem did indeed seem to have gone mad. Oblivious to pain, he flung himself at
the iron bars, trying to break them open. When this didn't work, he grasped
the bars in his hands and started to wrench them apart.
"I'm coming, Jasla!" he screamed. "Don't leave! Forgive-"
The jailor, his pig eyes wide in alarm, ran over to the stairs and began
shouting up them.
"He's calling the guards!" Caramon grunted. "We've got to get Berem calmed
down. Tika-"
But the girl was already by Berem's side. Holding onto his shoulder, she
pleaded with him to stop. At first the berserk man paid no attention to her,
roughly shaking her off him. But Tika petted and stroked and soothed until
eventually it seemed Berem might listen. He quit attempting to force the cell
door open and stood still, his hands clenching the bars. The beard had fallen
to the floor, his face was covered with sweat, and he was bleeding from a cut
where he had rammed the bars with his head.
There was a rattling sound near the front of the dungeon as two draconians
came dashing down the stairs at the jailor's call. Their curved swords drawn
and ready, they advanced down the narrow corridor, the jailor at their heels.
Swiftly Tas grabbed the beard and stuffed it into one of his pouches, hoping
they wouldn't remember that Berem had come in with whiskers.
Tika, still stroking Berem soothingly, babbled about anything that came into
her head. Berem did not appear to be listening, but at least he appeared quiet
once more. Breathing heavily, he stared with glazed eyes into the empty cell
across from them. Tas could see muscles in the man's arm twitch spasmodically.
"What is the meaning of this?" Caramon shouted as the draconians came up to
the cell door. "You've locked me in here with a raving beast! He tried to kill
me! I demand you get me out of here!'
Tasslehoff, watching Caramon closely, saw the big warrior's right hand make a
small quick gesture toward the guard. Recognizing the signal, Tas tensed,
ready for action. He saw Tika tense, too. One hobgoblin and two guards...
They'd faced worse odds.
The draconians looked at the jailor, who hesitated. Tas could guess what was
going through the creature's thick mind. If this big officer was a personal
friend of the Dark Lady, she would certainly not look kindly on a jailor who
allowed one of her close friends to be murdered in his prison cell.
"I'll get the keys," the jailor muttered, waddling back down the corridor.
The draconians began to talk together in their own language, apparently
exchanging rude comments about the hobgoblin. Caramon flashed a look at Tika
and Tas, making a quick gesture of heads banging together. Tas, fumbling in
one of his pouches, closed his hand over his little knife. (They had searched
his pouches, but-in an effort to be helpful-Tas kept switching his pouches
around until the confused guards-after their fourth search of the same
pouch-gave up. Caramon had insisted the kender be allowed to keep his pouches,
since there were items the Dark Lady wanted to examine. Unless, of course, the
guards wanted to be responsible-) Tika kept patting Berem, her hypnotic voice
bringing a measure of peace back to his fevered, staring blue eyes.
The jailor had just grabbed the keys from the wall and was starting to walk
back down the corridor again when a voice from the bottom of the stairs
stopped him.
"What do you want?" the jailor snarled, irritated and startled at the sight of
the cloaked figure appearing suddenly, without warning.
"I am Gakhan," said the voice.
Hushing immediately at the sight of the newcomer, the draconians drew
themselves up in respect, while the hobgoblin turned a sickly green color, the
keys clinking together in its flabby hand. Two more guards clattered down the
stairs. At a gesture from the cloaked figure, they came to stand beside him.
Walking past the quaking hobgoblin, the figure drew closer to the cell door.
Now Tas could see the figure clearly. It was another draconian, dressed in
armor with a dark cape thrown over its face. The kender bit his lip in
frustration. Well, the odds still weren't that bad-not for Caramon.
The hooded draconian, ignoring the stammering jailor who was trotting along
behind him like a fat dog, grabbed a torch from the wall and came over to
stand directly in front of the companions' jail cell.
"Get me out of this place!" Caramon shouted, elbowing Berem to one side.
But the draconian, ignoring Caramon, reached through the bars of the cell and
laid a clawed hand on Berem's shirtfront. Tas darted a frantic look at
Caramon. The big man's face was deathly pale. He made a desperate lunge at the
draconian, but it was too late.
With a twist of its clawed hand, the draconian ripped Berem's shirt to shreds.
Green light flared into the jail cell as the torchlight illuminated the
gemstone embedded in Berem's flesh.
"It is he," Gakhan said quietly. "Unlock the cell."
The jailor put the key in the cell door with hands that shook visibly.
Snatching it away from the hobgoblin, one of the draconian guards opened the
cell door, then they surged inside. One guard struck Caramon a vicious blow on
the side of the head with the hilt of his sword, felling the warrior like an
ox, while another grabbed Tika.
Gakhan entered the cell.
"Kill him"-the draconian motioned at Caramon-"and the girl and the kender."
Gakhan laid his clawed hand on Berem's shoulder. "I will take this one to Her
Dark Majesty." The draconian flashed a triumphant glance around at the others.
"This night, victory is ours," he said softly.

Sweating in the dragon-scale armor, Tanis stood beside Kitiara in one of the
vast antechambers leading into the Great Hall of Audience. Surrounding the
half-elf were Kitiara's troops, including the hideous skeletal warriors under
the command of the death knight, Lord Soth. These stood in the shadows just
behind Kitiara. Though the antechamber was crowded-Kitiara's draconian troops
were packed in spear to spear-there was, nevertheless, a vast empty space
around the undead warriors. None came near them, none spoke to them, they
spoke to no one. And though the room was stifling hot with the crushing press
of many bodies, a chill flowed from these that nearly stopped the heart if one
ventured too near.
Feeling Lord Soth's flickering eyes upon him, Tanis could not repress a
shudder. Kitiara glanced up at him and smiled, the crooked smile he had once
found so irresistible. She stood close to him, their bodies touching.
"You'll get used to them," she said coolly. Then her gaze returned to the
proceedings in the vast Hall. The dark line appeared between her brows, her
hand tapped irritably upon her sword hilt. "Get moving, Ariakas," she
muttered.
Tanis looked over her head, staring through the ornate doorway they would
enter when it was their turn, watching in awe that he could not hide as the
spectacle unfolded before his eyes.
The Hall of Audience of Takhisis, Queen of Darkness, first impressed the
viewer with a sense of his own inferiority. This was the black heart which
kept the dark blood flowing and-as such-its appearance was fitting. The
antechamber in which they stood opened onto a huge circular room with a floor
of polished black granite. The floor continued up to form the walls, rising in
tortured curves like dark waves frozen in time. Any moment, it seemed, they
could crash down and engulf all those within the Hall in blackness. It was
only Her Dark Majesty's power that held them in check. And so the black waves
swept upward to a high domed ceiling, now hidden from view by a wispy wall of
shifting, eddying smoke-the breath of dragons.
The floor of the vast Hall was empty now, but it would soon be filling rapidly
as the troops marched in to take up their positions beneath the thrones of
their Highlords. These thrones-four of them-stood about ten feet above the
gleaming granite floor. Squat gates opened from the concave walls onto black
tongues of rock that licked outward from the walls. Upon these four huge
platforms-two to each side-sat the Highlords- and only the Highlords. No one
else-not even bodyguards- was allowed beyond the top step of the sacred
platforms. Bodyguards and high-ranking officers stood upon stairs that
extended up to the thrones from the floor like the ribs of some giant
prehistoric beast.
From the center of the Hall rose another, slightly larger platform, curling
upward from the floor like a giant, hooded snake-which is exactly what it had
been carved to represent. One slender bridge of rock ran from the snake's
'head' to another gate in the side of the Hall. The head faced Ariakas- and
the darkness-shrouded alcove above Ariakas.
The 'Emperor,' as Ariakas styled himself, sat upon a slightly larger platform
at the front of the great Hall, about ten feet above those around it.
Tanis felt his gaze drawn irresistibly to an alcove carved into the rock above
Ariakas's throne. It was larger than the rest of the alcoves and-within
it-lurked a darkness that was almost alive. It breathed and pulsed and was so
intense that Tanis looked quickly away. Although he could see nothing, he
guessed who would soon sit within those shadows.
Shuddering, Tanis turned back to the darkness within the Hall. There was not
much left to see. All around the domed ceiling, in alcoves similar though
smaller than the Highlords' alcoves, perched the dragons. Almost invisible,
obscured by their own smoking breath, these creatures sat opposite their
respective Highlords' alcoves, keeping vigilant watch-so the Highlords
supposed-upon their 'masters.' Actually only one dragon in the assemblage was
truly concerned over his master's welfare. This was Skie, Kitiara's dragon,
who-even now-sat in his place, his fiery red eyes staring al the throne of
Ariakas with much the same intensity and far more visible hatred than Tanis
had seen in the eyes of Skie's master.
A gong rang. Masses of troops poured into the Hall, all of them wearing the
red dragon colors of Ariakas's troops. Hundreds of clawed and booted feet
scraped the floor as the draconians and human guard of honor entered and took
their places beneath Ariakas's throne. No officers ascended the stairs, no
bodyguards took their places in front of their lord.
Then the man himself entered through the gate behind his throne. He walked
alone, his purple robes of state sweeping majestically from his shoulders,
dark armor gleaming in the torchlight. Upon his head glistened a crown,
studded with jewels the hue of blood.
"The Crown of Power," Kitiara murmured, and now Tanis saw emotion in her
eyes-longing, such longing as he had rarely seen in human eyes before.
"Whoever wears the Crown, rules," came a voice behind her. "So it is written."
Lord Soth. Tanis stiffened to keep from trembling, feeling the man's presence
like a cold skeletal hand upon the back of his neck.
Ariakas's troops cheered him long and loudly, thumping their spears upon the
floor, clashing their swords against their shields. Kitiara snarled in
impatience. Finally Ariakas extended his hands for silence. Turning, he knelt
in reverence before the shadowy alcove above him, then, with a wave of his
gloved hand, the head of the Dragon Highlords made a patronizing gesture to
Kitiara.
Glancing at her, Tanis saw such hatred and contempt on her face that he barely
recognized her. "Yes, lord," whispered Kitiara, her eyes now dark and
gleaming.
"Whoever wears the Crown, rules. So it is written . . . written in blood!' "
Half-turning her head, she beckoned to Lord Soth. "Fetch the elfwoman."
Lord Soth bowed and flowed from the antechamber like a malevolent fog, his
skeletal warriors drifting after him. Draconians stumbled over themselves in
frantic efforts to get out of his deadly path.
Tanis gripped Kitiara's arm. "You promised!" he said in a strangled voice.
Staring at him coldly, Kitiara snatched her arm free, easily breaking the
half-elf's strong grasp. But her brown eyes held him, drained him, sucking the
life from him until he felt like nothing more than a dried shell.
"Listen to me, Half-Elven," Kitiara said, her voice cold and thin and sharp.
"I am after one thing and one thing only-the Crown of Power Ariakas wears.
That is the reason I captured Laurana, that is all she means to me. I will
present the elfwoman to Her Majesty, as I have promised. The Queen will reward
me-with the Crown, of course-then she will order the elf taken to the Death
Chambers far below the Temple. I care nothing for what happens to the elf
after that, and so I give her to you. At my gesture, step forward. I will
present you to the Queen. Beg of her a favor. Ask that you be allowed to
escort the elfwoman to her death. If she approves of you, she will grant it.
You may then take the elfwoman to the city gates or wherever you choose, and
there you may set her free. But I want your word of honor, Tanis Half-Elven,
that you will return to me."
"I give it," Tanis said, his eyes meeting Kitiara's without wavering,
Kitiara smiled. Her face relaxed. It was so beautiful once more, that Tanis,
startled by the sudden transformation, almost wondered if he had seen that
other cruel face at all. Putting her hand on Tanis's cheek, she stroked his
beard.
"I have your word of honor. That might not mean much to other men, but I know
you will keep it. One final warning, Tanis," she whispered swiftly, "you must
convince the Queen that you are her loyal servant. She is powerful, Tanis! She
is a goddess, remember that! She can see into your heart, your soul. You must
convince her beyond doubt that you are hers. One gesture, one word that rings
false, and she will destroy you. There will be nothing I can do. If you die,
so does your Lauralanthalasa!"
"I understand," Tanis said, feeling his body chill beneath the cold armor.
There was a blaring trumpet call.
"There, that is our signal," Kitiara said. Pulling her gloves on, she drew the
dragonhelm over her head. "Go forward, Tanis. Lead my troops. I will enter
last."
Resplendent in her glittering night-blue dragon-scale armor, Kitiara stepped
haughtily to one side as Tanis walked through the ornate doorway into the Hall
of Audience.
The crowd began to cheer at the sight of the blue banner. Perched above the
audience with the other dragons, Skie bellowed in triumph. Aware of thousands
of glittering eyes upon him, Tanis firmly put everything out of his mind
except what he must do. He kept his eyes fixed on his destination-the platform
in the Hall next to Lord Ariakas's, the platform decorated with the blue
banner. Behind him, he could hear the rhythmic stamp of clawed feet as Kit's
guard of honor marched in proudly. Tanis reached the platform and stood at the
bottom of the stairs, as he had been ordered. The crowd quieted then and, as
the last draconian filed through the door, a murmur began to sweep through the
Hall. The crowd strained forward, anxious to see Kitiara's entrance.
Waiting within the antechamber, allowing the crowd to wait just a few more
moments to enhance the suspense, Kit glimpsed movement out of the corner of
her eye. Turning, she saw Lord Soth enter the antechamber, his guards bearing
a white-wrapped body in their fleshless arms. The eyes of the vibrant, living
woman and the vacant eyes of the dead knight met in perfect agreement and
understanding.
Lord Soth bowed.
Kitiara smiled, then-turning-she entered the Hall of Audience to thunderous
applause.

Lying on the cold cell floor, Caramon struggled desperately to remain
conscious. The pain was beginning to subside. The blow that struck him down
had been a glancing one, slanting off the officer's helm he wore, stunning
him, but not knocking him out.
He feigned unconsciousness, however, not knowing what else to do. Why wasn't
Tanis here, he thought despairingly, once more cursing his own slowness of
mind. The half-elf would have a plan, he would know what to do. I shouldn't
have been left with this responsibility! Caramon swore bitterly. Then, quit
bellyaching, you big ox! They're depending on you!, came a voice in the back
of his mind. Caramon blinked, then caught himself just as he was about to
grin. The voice was so like Flint's, he could have sworn the dwarf was
standing beside him! He was right. They were depending on him. He'd just have
to do his best. That was all he could do.
Caramon opened his eyes a slit, peering out between half-closed lids. A
draconian guard stood almost directly in front of him, back turned to the
supposedly comatose warrior. Caramon could not see Berem or the draconian
called Gakhan without twisting his head, and he dared not call attention to
himself. He could take out that first guard, he knew. Possibly the second,
before the other two finished him. He had no hope of escaping alive, but at
least he might give Tas and Tika a chance to escape with Berem.
Tensing his muscles, Caramon prepared to launch himself at the guard when
suddenly an agonized scream tore through the darkness of the dungeons. It was
Berem screaming, a cry so filled with rage and anger that Caramon started up
in alarm, forgetting he was supposed to be unconscious.
Then he froze, watching in amazement as Berem lurched forward, grabbed Gakhan,
and lifted him off the stone floor. Carrying the wildly flailing draconian in
his hands, the Everman hurtled out of the jail cell and smashed Gakhan into a
stone wall. The draconian's head split apart, cracking like the eggs of the
good dragons upon the black altars. Howling in rage, Berem slammed the
draconian into the wail again and again, until Gakhan was nothing more than a
limp, green bloodied mass of shapeless flesh.
For a moment no one moved. Tas and Tika huddled together, horrified by the
gruesome sight. Caramon fought to piece things together in his pain-befuddled
mind while even the draconian guards stood staring at their leader's body in a
paralyzed, dreadful fascination.
Then Berem dropped Gakhan's body to the ground. Turning, he stared at the
companions without recognition. He's completely insane, Caramon saw with a
shudder. Berem's eyes were wide and crazed. Saliva dripped from his mouth. His
hands and arms were slimy with green blood. Finally, realizing that his captor
was dead, Berem seemed to come to his senses. He gazed around and saw Caramon
on the floor, staring up at him in shock.
"She calls me!" Berem whispered hoarsely.
Turning, he ran down the northern corridor, flinging the startled draconians
to one side as they tried to stop him. Never pausing to look behind him, Berem
slammed into the partially open iron door at the end of the corridor, the
force of his passing nearly tearing the door from its hinges. Clanking against
the stone with a dull booming sound, the door swung crazily back and forth.
They could hear Berem's wild shrieking echo down the corridor.
By now, two of the draconians had recovered. One of them ran for the stairway,
shouting at the top of its lungs. It was in draconian, but Caramon could
understand it well enough.
"Prisoner escape! Call out the guards!"
In answer came shouts and the sound of clawed feet scraping at the top of the
staircase. The hobgoblin took one look at the dead draconian and fled toward
the staircase and his guardroom, adding his panic-stricken shouts to those of
the draconian. The other guard, quickly regaining its feet, jumped into the
cell. But Caramon was his feet now, too. This was action. This he could
understand. Reaching out, the big man grabbed the draconian around the neck.
One jerk of the huge hands, and the creature fell lifeless to the floor.
Caramon swiftly snatched the sword from the clawed hand as the draconian's
body hardened into stone.
"Caramon! Look out behind you!" Tasslehoff yelled as the other guard,
returning from the stairway, dashed into the cell, its sword raised.
Caramon whirled, only to see the creature fall forward as Tika's boot caught
it in the stomach. Tasslehoff plunged his little knife into the second guard's
body, forgetting-in his excitement-to jerk it free again. Glancing at the
stone corpse of the other creature, the kender made a frantic dive for his
knife. Too late.
"Leave it!" Caramon ordered, and Tas stood up.
Guttural voices could be heard above them, feet scraping and clawing down the
stairs. The hobgoblin had reached the stairs and was waving his hands
frantically and pointing back at them. His own shouts rose above the noise of
the descending troops.
Caramon, sword in hand, glanced uncertainly at the stairs, then down the
northern corridor after Berem.
"That's right! Follow Berem, Caramon," Tika said urgently. "Go with him! Don't
you see? 'She's calling me,' he said. It's his sister's voice! He can hear her
calling to him. That's why he went crazy."
"Yes ..." Caramon said in a daze, staring down the corridor. He could hear the
draconians plunging down the winding stairs, armor rattling, swords scraping
against the stone walls. They had only seconds. "Come on-"
Tika grasped Caramon by the arm. Digging her nails into his flesh, she forced
him to look at her, her red curls a mass of flaming color in the flickering
torchlight.
"No!" she said firmly. "They'll catch him for certain and then it will be the
end! I've got a plan. We must split up. Tas and I will draw them off. We'll
give you time. It'll be all right, Caramon," she persisted, seeing him shake
his head. "There's another corridor that leads east. I saw it as we came in.
They'll chase us down that way. Now, hurry, before they see you!"
Caramon hesitated, his face twisted in agony.
"This is the end, Caramon!" Tika said. "For good or for evil. You must go with
him! You must help him reach her! Hurry, Caramon! You're the only one strong
enough to protect him. He needs you!"
Tika actually shoved the big man. Caramon took a step, then looked back at
her.
"Tika . . ." he began, trying to think of some argument against this wild
scheme. But before he could finish, Tika kissed him swiftly and-grabbing a
sword from a dead draconian-ran from the jail cell.
"I'll take care of her, Caramon!" Tas promised, dashing after Tika, his
pouches bouncing wildly all around him.
Caramon stared after them a moment. The hobgoblin jailor shrieked in terror as
Tika ran straight for the creature, brandishing her sword. The jailor made a
wild grab for her, but Tika hacked at him so ferociously that the hobgoblin
fell dead with a gurgling scream, his throat cut.
Ignoring the body that slumped to the floor, Tika hurried down the corridor,
heading east.
Tasslehoff, right behind her, took a moment to stop at the bottom of the
stair. The draconians were visible now, and Caramon could hear the kender's
shrill voice shouting taunts at the guards.
"Dog-eaters! Slime-blooded goblin-lovers!"
Then Tas was off, dashing after Tika who had vanished from Caramon's sight.
The enraged draconians-driven wild by the kender's taunts and the sight of
their prisoners escaping-did not take time to look around. They charged after
the fleet-footed kender, their curved swords gleaming, their long tongues
flicking in anticipation of the kill.
Within moments, Caramon found himself alone. He hesitated another precious
minute, staring into the thick darkness of the gloomy cells. He could see
nothing. The only thing he could hear was Tas's voice yelling 'dog-eaters.'
Then there was silence.
"I'm alone..." thought Caramon bleakly. "I've lost them ... lost them all. I
must go after them." He started toward the stairs, then stopped. "No, there's
Berem. He's alone, too. Tika's right. He needs me now. He needs me."
His mind clear at last, Caramon turned and ran clumsily down the northern
corridor after the Everman.

8
Queen of Darkness.

"Dragon Highlord Toede." Lord Ariakas listened with lazy contempt to the
calling of the role. Not that he was bored with the proceedings. Quite the
contrary. Assembling the Grand Council had not been his idea. He had, in fact,
opposed it. But he had been careful not to oppose it too vehemently. That
might have made him appear weak; and Her Dark Majesty did not allow weaklings
to live. No, this Grand Council would be anything but boring...
At the thought of his Dark Queen, he half-turned and glanced swiftly up into
the alcove above him. The largest and most magnificent in the Hall, its great
throne remained empty still, the gate that led into it lost in the living,
breathing darkness. No stairs ran up to that throne. The gate itself provided
the only entrance and exit. And as to where the gate led-well, it was best not
to think of such things. Needless to say, no mortal had passed beyond its iron
grillwork.
The Queen had not yet arrived. He was not surprised. These opening proceedings
were beneath her. Ariakas hunched back in his throne. His gaze
went-appropriately enough, he thought bitterly-from the throne of the Dark
Queen to the throne of the Dark Lady. Kitiara was here, of course. This was
her moment of triumph-so she thought. Ariakas breathed a curse upon her.
"Let her do her worst," he murmured, only half-listening as the sergeant
repeated the name of Lord Toede once more. "I am prepared."
Ariakas suddenly realized something was amiss. What? What was happening? Lost
in his thoughts, he had paid no attention to the proceedings. What was wrong?
Silence ... a dreadful silence that followed . . . what? He cast about in his
mind, trying to recall what had just been said. Then he remembered and came
back from his dark thoughts to stare grimly at the second throne to his left.
The troops in the hall, mostly draconian, heaved and swayed like a sea of
death below him as all eyes shifted to the same throne.
Though the draconian troops belonging to Lord Toede were present, their
banners mingling with the banners of the other draconians standing at
attention in the center of the Hall of Audience, the throne itself was empty.
Tanis, from where he stood upon the steps of Kitiara's platform, followed
Ariakas's gaze, stern and cold beneath the crown. The half-elf's ears had
pricked at the sound of Toede's name. An image of the hobgoblin came swiftly
to his mind as he had seen him standing in the dust of the road to Solace. The
vision brought back thoughts of that warm autumn day that had seen the
beginning of this long, dark journey. It brought back memories of Flint and
Sturm. . . - Tanis gritted his teeth and forced himself to concentrate on what
was happening. The past was over, finished, and-he hoped fervently-soon
forgotten.
"Lord Toede?" Ariakas repeated in anger. The troops in the Hall muttered among
themselves. Never before had a Highlord disobeyed a command to attend the
Grand Council.
A human dragonarmy officer climbed the stairs leading to the empty platform.
Standing on the top step (protocol forbade him proceeding higher), he
stammered a moment in terror, facing those black eyes and-worse-the shadowy
alcove above Ariakas's throne. Then, taking a breath, he began his report.
"I-I regret to inform His Lordship and Her D-Dark Majesty"-a nervous glance at
the shadowy alcove that was, apparently, still vacant-"that Dragon Highlord
To-uh, Toede has met an unfortunate and untimely demise."
Standing on the top step of the platform where Kitiara sat enthroned, Tanis
heard a snort of derision from behind Kit's dragonhelm. An amused titter ran
through the crowd below him while dragonarmy officers exchanged knowing
glances.
Lord Ariakas was not amused, however. "Who dared slay a Dragon Highlord?" he
demanded furiously, and at the sound of his voice-and the portent of his
words-the crowd fell silent.
"It was in K-Kenderhome, lord," the officer replied, his voice echoing in the
vast marble chamber. The officer paused. Even from this distance, Tanis could
see the man's fist clenching and unclenching nervously. He obviously had
further bad news to impart and was reluctant to continue.
Ariakas glowered at the officer. Clearing his throat, the man lifted his voice
again.
"I regret to report, lord, that Kenderhome has been-" For a moment the man's
voice gave out completely. Only by a valiant effort did he manage to continue.
"-lost."
"Lost!" repeated Ariakas in a voice that might have been a thunderbolt.
Certainly it seemed to strike the officer with terror. Blenching, he stammered
incoherently for a moment, then- apparently determining to end it quickly,
gasped out, "Highlord Toede was foully murdered by a kender named Kronin
Thistleknott, and his troops driven from-"
There was a deeper murmur from the crowd now, growlings of anger and defiance,
threats of the total destruction of Kenderhome. They would wipe that miserable
race from the face of Krynn-
With his gloved hand, Ariakas made an irritated, sweeping gesture. Silence
fell instantly over the assemblage.
And then the silence was broken.
Kitiara laughed.
It was mirthless laughter-arrogant and mocking, and it echoed loudly from the
depths of the metal mask.
His face twisted in outrage, Ariakas rose to his feet. He took a step forward
and-as he did so-steel flashed among his draconians on the floor as swords
slid out of scabbards and spear butts thudded against the floor.
At the sight, Kitiara's own troops closed ranks, backing up so that they
pressed closely around the platform of their lord, which was at Ariakas's
right hand. Instinctively Tanis's hand closed over the hilt of his sword and
he found himself moving a step nearer Kitiara, though it meant setting his
foot upon the platform where he was not supposed to trod.
Kitiara did not move. She remained seated, calmly regarding Ariakas with scorn
that could be felt, if not seen.
Suddenly a breathless hush descended over the Assemblage, as if the breath in
each body was being choked off by an unseen force. Faces paled as those
present felt stifled, gasping for air. Lungs ached, vision blurred, heartbeats
stilled. And then the air itself seemed sucked from the Hall as a darkness
filled it.
Was it actual, physical darkness? Or a darkness in the mind? Tanis could not
be certain. His eyes saw the thousands of torches in the Hall flare
brilliantly, he saw the thousands of candles sparkle like stars in the night
sky. But even the night sky was not darker than the darkness he now perceived.
His head swam. Desperately he tried to breathe, but he might as well have been
beneath the Blood Sea of Istar again. His knees trembled, he was almost too
weak to stand. His strength failed him, he staggered and fell and, as he sank
down, gasping for breath, he was dimly aware of others, here and there,
falling to the polished marble floor as well. Lifting his head, though the
move was agony, he could see Kitiara slump forward in her chair as though
crushed into the throne by an unseen force.
Then the darkness lifted. Cool, sweet air rushed into his lungs. His heart
lurched and began pounding. Blood rushed to his head, nearly making him pass
out. For a moment he could do nothing but sink back against the marble stairs,
weak and dizzy, while light exploded in his head. Then, as his vision cleared,
he saw that the draconians remained unaffected. Stoically they stood, all of
them staring fixedly at one spot.
Tanis lifted his gaze to the magnificent platform that had remained empty
throughout the proceedings. Empty until now. His blood congealed in his veins,
his breath nearly stopped again. Takhisis, Queen of Darkness, had entered the
Hall of Audience.
Other names she had upon Krynn. Dragonqueen she was called in elven; Nilat the
Corrupter, to the barbarians of Plains; Tamex, the False Metal, so she was
known in Thorbardin among the dwarves; Mai-tat, She of Many Faces was how they
told of her in legends among the sea-faring people of Ergoth. Queen of Many
Colors and of None, the Knights of Solamnia called her; defeated by Huma,
banished from the land, long ago.
Takhisis, Queen of Darkness, had returned.
But not completely.
Even as Tanis stared at the shadowy form in the alcove overhead with awe, even
as the terror pierced his brain, leaving him numb, unable to feel or sense
anything beyond sheer horror and fear-he realized that the Queen was not
present in her physical form. It was as if her presence in their minds cast a
shadow of her being onto the platform. She, herself, was there only as her
will forced others to perceive her.
Something was holding her back, blocking her entry into this world. A
door-Berem's words returned in confusion to Tanis's mind. Where was Berem?
Where were Caramon and the others? Tanis realized with a pang that he had
nearly forgotten about them. They had been driven from his mind by his
preoccupation with Kitiara and Laurana. His head spun. He felt as if he held
the key to everything in his hand, if only he could find the time to think
about it calmly.
But that was not possible. The shadowy form increased in intensity until its
blackness seemed to create a cold hole of nothingness in the granite room.
Unable to look away, Tanis was compelled to gaze into that dreadful hole until
he had the terrifying sensation he was being drawn into it. At that moment, he
heard a voice in his mind.
I have not brought you together to see your petty quarrels and pettier
ambitions mar the victory I sense is fast approaching. Remember who rules
here, Lord Ariakas.
Lord Ariakas sank to one knee, as did all others in the chamber. Tanis found
himself falling to his knees in reverence. He could not help it. Though filled
with loathing at the hideous, suffocating evil, this was a goddess-one of the
forgers of the world. Since the beginning of time she had ruled... and would
rule until time ended.
The voice continued speaking, burning into his mind and into the minds of all
present.
Lord Kitiara, you have pleased us well in the past. Your gift to us now
pleases us even more. Bring in the elfwoman, that we may look upon her and
decide her fate.
Tanis, glancing at Lord Ariakas, saw the man return to his throne, but not
before he had cast a venomous look of hatred at Kitiara.
"I will, Your Dark Majesty." Kitiara bowed, then, "Come with me," she ordered
Tanis as she passed by him on her way down the stairs.
Her draconian troops backed away, leaving a path for her to walk to the center
of the room. Kitiara descended the rib-like stairs of the platform, Tanis
following. The troops parted to let them pass, then closed ranks again almost
instantly.
Reaching the center of the Hall, Kitiara climbed the narrow stairs that jutted
forth like spurs from the hooded snake's sculpted back until she stood in the
center of the marble platform. Tanis followed more slowly, finding the stairs
narrow and difficult to climb, especially as he felt the eyes of the shadowy
form in the alcove delve into his soul.
Standing at the center of the ghastly platform, Kitiara turned and gestured
toward the ornate gate opening onto the far end of the narrow bridge that
connected the platform with the main walls of the Hall of Audience.
A figure appeared in the doorway-a dark figure dressed in the armor of a
Knight of Solamnia. Lord Soth entered the Hall, and-at his coming-the troops
fell back from either side of that narrow bridge as if a hand had reached up
from the grave and tossed them away. In his pallid arms, Lord Soth bore a body
bound in a white winding cloth, the kind used for embalming the dead. The
silence in the room was such that the dead knight's booted footsteps could
almost be heard ringing upon the marble floor, though all gathered there could
see the stone through the transparent, fleshless body.
Walking forward, bearing his white-swathed burden, Lord Soth crossed the
bridge and walked slowly up to stand upon the snake's head. At another gesture
from Kitiara, he laid the bundle of white upon the floor at the Dragon
Highlord's feet. Then he stood and suddenly vanished, leaving everyone
blinking in horror, to wonder if he had really existed or if they had seen him
only in their fevered imaginations.
Tanis could see Kitiara smile beneath her helm, pleased at the impact made by
her servant. Then, drawing her sword, Kitiara leaned down and slit the
bindings that wrapped the figure like a cocoon. Giving them a yank, she pulled
them loose, then stepped back to watch her captive struggle in the web.
Tanis caught sight of a mass of tangled, honey-colored hair, the flash of
silver armor. Coughing, nearly suffocated by her constricting bindings,
Laurana fought to free herself from the entangling white cloths. There was
tense laughter as the troops watched the prisoner's feeble thrashings-this was
obviously an indication of more amusement to come. Reacting instinctively,
Tanis took a step forward to help Laurana. Then he felt Kitiara's brown eyes
upon him, watching him, reminding him-
"If you die-she dies!"
His body shaking with chills, Tanis stopped, then stepped back. Finally
Laurana staggered dizzily to her feet. For a moment she stood staring around
vaguely, not comprehending where she was, blinking her eyes to see in the
harsh, flaring torchlight. Her gaze focused at last upon Kitiara, smiling at
her from behind the dragonhelm.
At the sight of her enemy, the woman who had betrayed her, Laurana drew
herself to her full height. For a moment, her fear was forgotten in her anger.
Imperiously she glanced beneath her, then above her, her gaze sweeping the
great Hall. Fortunately, she did not look behind her. She did not see the
bearded half-elf dressed in dragonarmor, who was watching her intently.
Instead she saw the troops of the Dark Queen, she saw the Highlords upon their
thrones, she saw the dragons perched above them. Finally, she beheld the
shadowy form of the Queen of Darkness herself.
And now she knows where she is, Tanis thought in misery, seeing Laurana's face
drain of color. Now she knows where she is and what is about to befall her.
What stories they must have told her, down in those dungeons below the Temple.
Tormenting her with tales of the Death Chambers of the Queen of Darkness. She
had probably been able to hear the screams of others, Tanis guessed, feeling
his soul ache at her obvious terror. She had listened to their screams in the
night, and now, within hours, maybe minutes, she would join them.
Her face deathly pale, Laurana turned back to look at Kitiara as if she were
the only fixed point in a swirling universe. Tanis saw Laurana's teeth clench,
biting her lips to keep control. She would never show her fear to this woman,
she would never show her fear to any of them.
Kitiara made a small gesture.
Laurana followed her gaze.
"Tanis..."
Turning, she saw the half-elf, and, as Laurana's eyes met his, Tanis saw hope
shine. He felt her love for him surround him and bless him like the dawning of
spring after winter's bitter darkness. For at last Tanis realized his own love
for her was the bond between his two warring halves. He loved her with the
unchanging, eternal love of his elven soul and with the passionate love of his
human blood. But the realization had come too late, and now he would pay for
the realization with his life and his soul.
One look, that was all he could give Laurana. One look that must carry the
message of his heart, for he could feel Kitiara's brown eyes on him, watching
him intently. And other eyes were on him, too, dark and shadowy as they might
be.
Aware of those eyes, Tanis forced his face to reveal nothing of his inner
thoughts. Exerting all his control, he clenched his jaw, setting the muscles
rigid, keeping his gaze carefully expressionless. Laurana might have been a
stranger. Coldly he turned away from her and, as he turned, he saw hope's
light flicker and die in her luminous eyes. As if a cloud had obscured the
sun, the warmth of Laurana's love turned to bleak despair, chilling Tanis with
its sorrow.
Gripping the hilt of his sword firmly to keep his hand from trembling, Tanis
turned to face Takhisis, Queen of Darkness.
"Dark Majesty," cried Kitiara, grasping Laurana by the arm and dragging her
forward, "I present my gift to you-a gift that will give us victory!"
She was momentarily interrupted by tumultuous cheers. Raising her hand,
Kitiara commanded silence, then she continued.
"I give you the elfwoman, Lauralanthalasa, Princess of the Qualinesti Elves,
leader of the foul Knights of Solamnia. It was she who brought back the
dragonlances, she who used the dragon orb in the High Clerist's Tower. It was
by her command that her brother and a silver dragon traveled to Sanction
where-through the ineptness of Lord Ariakas-they managed to break into the
sacred temple and discover the destruction of the good dragon eggs." Ariakas
took a menacing step forward, but Kitiara coolly ignored him. "I give her to
you, my Queen, to treat her as you believe her crimes against you merit."
Kitiara flung Laurana in front of her. Stumbling, the elfwoman fell to her
knees before the Queen. Her golden hair had come loose from its bindings and
tumbled about her in a shining wave that was-to Tanis's fevered mind-the only
light in the vast dark chamber.
You have done well. Lord Kitiara, came the Dark Queen's unheard voice, and you
will be well rewarded. We will have the elf escorted to the Death Chambers,
then I will grant your reward.
"Thank you, Majesty." Kitiara bowed. "Before our business concludes, I have
two favors I beg you grant me." Thrusting out her hand, she caught Tanis in
her strong grip. "I would first present one who seeks service in your great
and glorious army."
Kitiara laid a hand on Tanis's shoulder, indicating with a firm pressure that
he was to kneel. Unable to purge that last glimpse of Laurana from his mind,
Tanis hesitated. He could still turn from the darkness. He could stand by
Laurana's side and they would face the end together.
Then he sneered,
How selfish have I become, he asked himself bitterly, that I would even
consider sacrificing Laurana in an attempt to cover my own folly? No, I alone
will pay for my misdeeds. If I do nothing more that is good in this life, I
will save her. And I will carry that knowledge with me as a candle to light my
path until the darkness consumes me!
Kitiara's grip on him tightened painfully, even through the dragonscale armor.
The brown eyes behind the dragonhelm began to smolder with anger.
Slowly, his head bowed, Tanis sank to his knees before Her Dark Majesty.
"I present your humble servant, Tanis Half-EIven," Kitiara resumed coolly,
although Tanis thought he could detect a note of relief in her voice. "I have
named him commander of my armies, following the untimely death of my late
commander, Bakaris."
Let our new servant come forward, came the voice into Tanis's mind.
Tanis felt Kit's hand on his shoulder as he rose, drawing him near. Swiftly
she whispered, "Remember, you are Her Dark Majesty's property now, Tanis. She
must be utterly convinced or even I will not be able to save you, and you will
not be able to save your elfwoman."
"I remember," Tanis said without expression. Shaking free of Kitiara's grip,
the half-elf walked forward to stand on the very edge of the platform, below
the Dark Queen's throne.
Raise your head. Look upon me, came the command.
Tanis braced himself, asking for strength from deep inside him, strength he
wasn't certain he possessed. If I falter, Laurana is lost. For the sake of
love, I must banish love. Tanis lifted his eyes.
His gaze was caught and held. Mesmerized, he stared at the shadowy form,
unable to free himself. There was no need to fabricate awe and a horrible
reverence, for that came to him as it comes to all mortals who glimpse Her
Dark Majesty. But even as he felt compelled to worship, he realized that-deep
inside-he was free still. Her power was not complete. She could not consume
him against his will. Though Takhisis fought not to reveal this weakness,
Tanis was conscious of the great struggle she waged to enter the world.
Her shadowy form wavered before his eyes, revealing herself in all her guises,
proving she had control over none. First she appeared to him as the
five-headed dragon of Solamnic legend. Then the form shifted and she was the
Temptress-a woman whose beauty men might die to possess. Then the form shifted
once again. Now she was the Dark Warrior, a tall and powerful Knight of Evil,
who held death in his mailed hand.
But even as the forms shifted, the dark eyes remained constant, staring into
Tanis's soul, eyes of the five dragon heads, eyes of the beautiful Temptress,
eyes of the fearful Warrior. Tanis felt himself shrivel beneath the scrutiny.
He could not bear it, he did not have the strength. Abjectly he sank once more
to his knees, groveling before the Queen, despising himself as behind him he
heard an anguished, choking cry.

9
Horns of doom.

Lumbering down the northern corridor in search of Berem, Caramon ignored the
startled yells and calls and grasping hands of prisoners reaching out from the
barred cells. But there was no sight of Berem and no sign of his passing. He
tried asking the other prisoners if they had seen him, but most were so
unhinged by the tortures they had endured that they made no sense and,
eventually, his mind filled with horror and pity, Caramon left them alone. He
kept walking, following the corridor that led him ever downward. Looking
around, he wondered in despair how he would ever find the crazed man. His only
consolation was that no other corridors branched off from this central one.
Berem must have come this way! But if so, where was he?
Peering into cells, stumbling around corners, Caramon almost missed a big
hobgoblin guard, who lunged out at him. Swinging his sword irritably, annoyed
at the interruption, Caramon swept the creature's head off and was on his way
before the body hit the stone floor.
Then he heaved a sigh of relief. Hurrying down a staircase, he had nearly
stepped on the body of another dead hobgoblin. It's neck had been twisted by
strong hands. Plainly, Berem had been here, and not long ago. The body was not
yet cold.
Certain now he was on the man's trail, Caramon began to run. The prisoners in
the cells he passed were nothing but blurs to the big warrior as he ran by.
Their voices shrilled in his ears, begging for freedom.
Let them loose, and I'd have an army, Caramon thought suddenly. He toyed with
the idea of stopping a moment and unlocking the cell doors, when suddenly he
heard a terrible howling sound and shouting coming from somewhere ahead of
him.
Recognizing Berem's roar, Caramon plunged ahead. The cells came to an end, the
corridor narrowed to a tunnel that cut a deep spiral well into the ground.
Torches glimmered on the walls, but they were few and spaced far between.
Caramon ran down the tunnel, the roar growing louder as he drew closer. The
big warrior tried to hurry, but the floor was slick and slimy, the air became
danker and heavy with moisture the farther down he went. Afraid he might slip
and fall, he was forced to slow his pace. The shouts were closer, just ahead
of him. The tunnel grew lighter, he must be coming near the end.
And then he saw Berem. Two draconians were slashing at him, their swords
gleaming in the torchlight. Berem fought them off with his bare hands as light
from the green gemstone lit the small, enclosed chamber with an eerie
brilliance.
It was a mark of Berem's insane strength that he had held them off this long.
Blood ran freely from a cut across his face and flowed from a deep gash in his
side. Even as Caramon dashed to his aid, slipping in the muck, Berem grasped a
draconian's sword blade in his hand just as its point touched his chest. The
cruel steel bit into his flesh, but he was oblivious to pain. Blood poured
down his arm as he turned the blade and-with a heave-shoved the draconian
backwards. Then he staggered, gasping for breath. The other draconian guard
closed in for the kill.
Intent upon their prey, the guards never saw Caramon. Leaping out of the
tunnel, Caramon remembered just in time not to stab the creatures or he risked
losing his sword. Grabbing one of the guards in his huge hands, he twisted its
head, neatly snapping its neck. Dropping the body, he met the other
draconian's savage lunge with a quick chopping motion of his hand to the
creature's throat. It pitched backwards.
"Berem, are you all right?" Caramon turned and was starting to help Berem when
he suddenly felt a searing pain rip through his side.
Gasping in agony, he staggered around to see a draconian behind him.
Apparently it had been hiding in the shadows, perhaps at hearing Caramon's
coming. Its sword thrust should have killed, but it was aimed in haste and
slanted off Caramon's mail armor. Scrabbling for his own sword, Caramon
stumbled backwards to gain time.
The draconian didn't intend giving him any. Raising its blade, it lunged at
Caramon.
There was a blur of movement, a flash of green light, and the draconian fell
dead at Caramon's feet.
"Berem!" Caramon gasped, pressing his hand over his side. Thanks! How-"
But the Everman stared at Caramon without recognition. Then, nodding slowly,
he turned and started to walk away.
"Wait!" Caramon called. Gritting his teeth against the pain, the big man
jumped over the draconian bodies and hurled himself after Berem. Clutching his
arm, he dragged the man to a stop. "Wait, damn it!" he repeated, holding on to
him.
The sudden movement took its toll. The room swam before his eyes, forcing
Caramon to stand still a moment, fighting the pain of his injury. When he
could see again, he looked around, getting his bearings.
"Where are we?" he asked without expecting an answer, just wanting Berem to
hear the sound of his voice.
"Far, far below the Temple," Berem replied in a hollow tone. "I am close. Very
close now."
"Yeah," Caramon agreed without understanding. Keeping a fast hold on Berem, he
continued to look around. The stone stairs he had come down ended in a small
circular chamber. A guardroom, he realized, seeing an old table and several
chairs sitting beneath a torch on the wall. It made sense. The draconians down
here must have been guards. Berem had stumbled on them accidentally. But what
could the draconians have been guarding?
Caramon glanced quickly around the small stone chamber but saw nothing. The
room was perhaps twenty paces in diameter, carved out of rock. The spiral
stone stairs ended in this room and-across from them-an archway led out. It
was toward this archway Berem had been walking when Caramon caught hold of
him. Peering through the arch, Caramon saw nothing. It was dark beyond, so
dark Caramon felt as if he were staring into the Great Darkness the legends
spoke of. Darkness that had existed in the void long before the gods created
light.
The only sound he could hear was the gurgling and splash of water. An
underground stream, he thought, which accounted for the humid air. Stepping
back a pace, he examined the archway above him.
It was not carved out of the rock as was the small chamber they were in. It
had been built of stone, crafted by expert hands. He could see vague outlines
of elaborate carvings that had once decorated it, but he could make nothing
out, time and the moisture in the air had long ago worn them away.
As he studied the arch, hoping for a clue to guide him, Caramon nearly fell as
Berem clutched at him with sudden, fierce energy.
"I know you!" the man cried.
"Sure," Caramon grunted. "What in the name of the Abyss are you doing down
here?"
"Jasla calls..." Berem said, the wild look glazing his eyes once more.
Turning, he stared into the darkness beyond the archway. "In there, I must
go.... Guards... tried to stop me. You come with me."
Then Caramon realized that the guards must have been guarding this arch! For
what reason? What was beyond? Had they recognized Berem or were they simply
acting under orders to keep everyone out? He didn't know the answers to any of
these questions, and then it occurred to him that the answers didn't matter.
Neither did the questions.
"You have to go in there," he said to Berem. It was a statement, not a
question. Berem nodded and took a step forward eagerly. He would have walked
straight into the darkness if Caramon hadn't jerked him back.
"Wait, we'll need light," the big man said with a sigh. "Stay put!" Patting
Berem on the arm, then keeping his gaze fixed on him, Caramon backed up until
his groping hand came into contact with a torch on the wall. Lifting it from
its sconce, he returned to Berem.
"I'll go with you," he said heavily, wondering how long he could keep going
before he collapsed from pain and loss of blood. "Here, hold that a minute."
Handing Berem the torch, he tore off a strip of cloth from the ragged remains
of Berem's shirt and bound it firmly around the wound in his side. Then,
taking the torch back, he led the way beneath the arch.
Passing between the stone supports, Caramon felt something brush across his
face. "Cobweb!" he muttered, pawing at it in disgust. He glanced around
fearfully, having a dread of spiders. But there was nothing there. Shrugging,
he thought no more of it and continued through the arch, drawing Berem after
him.
The air was split with trumpet blasts.
"Trapped!" Caramon said grimly.

"Tika!" Tas gasped proudly as they ran down the gloomy dungeon corridor. "Your
plan worked." The kender risked a glance over his shoulder. 'Yes," he said
breathlessly, "I think they're all following us!"
"Wonderful," muttered Tika. Somehow she hadn't expected her plan to work quite
so well. No other plans she had ever made in her life had worked out. Wouldn't
you know this would be a first? She, too, cast a quick glance over her
shoulder. There must be six or seven draconians chasing after them, their long
curved swords in the clawed hands.
Though the claw-footed draconians could not run as swiftly as either the girl
or the kender, they had incredible endurance. Tika and Tas had a good head
start, but it wasn't going to last. She was already panting for breath, and
there was a sharp pain in her side that made her want to double over in agony.
But every second I keep running gives Caramon a little more time, she told
herself. I draw the draconians just that much farther away.
"Say, Tika"-Tas's tongue was hanging out of his mouth, his face, cheerful as
always, was pale with fatigue-"do you know where we're going?"
Tika shook her head. She hadn't breath left to speak. She felt herself
slowing, her legs were like lead. Another look back showed her that the
draconians were gaining. Quickly she glanced around, hoping to find another
corridor branching off from this main one, or even a niche, a doorway-any kind
of hiding place. There was nothing. The corridor stretched before them, silent
and empty. There weren't even any cells. It was a long, narrow, smooth, and
seemingly endless stone tunnel that sloped gradually upwards.
Then a sudden realization nearly brought her up short. Slowing, gasping for
breath, she stared at Tas, who was only dimly visible in the light of smoking
torches.
"The tunnel... it's rising . . ." She coughed.
Tas blinked at her uncomprehendingly, then his face brightened.
"It leads up and out!" he shouted jubilantly. "You've done it, Tika!"
"Maybe..." Tika said, hedging.
"Come on!" Tas yelled in excitement, finding new energy. Grabbing Tika's hand,
he pulled her along. "I know you're right, Tika! Smell"-he sniffed-"fresh air!
We'll escape . . . and find Tanis... and come back and... rescue Caramon-"
Only a kender could talk and run headlong down a corridor being chased by
draconians at the same time, Tika thought wearily. She was being carried
forward by sheer terror now, she knew. And soon that would leave her. Then she
would collapse here in the tunnel, so tired and aching she wouldn't care what
the draconians-
Then, "Fresh air!" she whispered.
She had honestly thought Tas was lying just to keep her going. But now she
could feel a soft whisper of wind touch her cheek. Hope lightened her leaden
legs. Glancing back, she thought she saw the draconians slowing. Maybe they
realize they'll never catch us now! Exultation swept over her.
"Hurry, Tas!" she yelled. Together they both raced with renewed energy up the
corridor, the sweet air blowing stronger and stronger all the time.
Running headfirst around a corner, they both came up short so suddenly that
Tasslehoff skidded on some loose gravel and slammed up against a wall.
"So this is why they slowed down," Tika said softly.
The corridor came to an end. Two barred wooden doors sealed it shut. Small
windows set into the doors, covered with iron gratings, allowed the night air
to blow into the dungeon. She and Tas could see outside, they could see
freedom-but they could not reach it.
"Don't give up!" Tas said after a moment's pause. Recovering quickly, he ran
over and pulled on the doors. They were locked.
"Drat," Tas muttered, eyeing the doors expertly. Caramon might have been able
to batter his way through them, or break the lock with a blow of his sword.
But not the kender, not Tika.
As Tas bent down to examine the lock, Tika leaned against a wall, wearily
closing her eyes, blood beat in her head, the muscles in her legs knotted in
painful spasms. Exhausted, she tasted the bitter salt of tears in her mouth
and realized she was sobbing in pain and anger and frustration.
"Don't, Tika!" Tas said, hurrying back to pat her hand. "It's a simple lock. I
can get us out of here in no time. Don't cry, Tika. It'll only take me a
little while, but you ought to be ready for those draconians if they come.
Just keep them busy-"
"Right," Tika said, swallowing her tears. Hurriedly she wiped her nose with
the back of her hand, then, sword in hand, she turned to face the corridor
behind them while Tas took another look at the lock.
It was a simple, simple lock, he saw with satisfaction, guarded by such a
simple trap he wondered why they even bothered.
Wondered why they even bothered... Simple lock... simple trap... The words
rang in his mind. They were familiar! He'd thought them before.... Staring up
at the doors in astonishment, Tas realized he'd been here before! But no, that
was impossible.
Shaking his head irritably, Tas fumbled in his pouch for his tools. Then he
stopped. Cold fear gripped the kender and shook him like a dog shakes a rat,
leaving him limp.
The dream!
These had been the doors he saw in the Silvanesti dream! This had been the
lock. The simple, simple lock with the simple trap! And Tika had been behind
him, fighting . . . dying...
"Here they come, Tas!" Tika called, gripping her sword in sweating hands. She
cast him a quick glance over her shoulder. "What are you doing? What are you
waiting for?"
Tas couldn't answer. He could hear the draconians now, laughing in their harsh
voices as they took their time reaching their captives, certain the prisoners
weren't going any place. They rounded the corner and Tas heard their laughter
grow louder when they saw Tika holding the sword.
"I-I don't think I can, Tika," Tas whimpered, staring at the lock in horror.
"Tas," said Tika swiftly and grimly, backing up to talk to him without taking
her eyes off her enemies, "we can't let ourselves be captured! They know about
Berem! They'll try to make us tell what we know about him, Tas! And you know
what they'll do to us to make us talk-"
"You're right." said Tas miserably. "I'll try."
You've got the courage to walk it... Fizban had told him. Taking a deep
breath, Tasslehoff pulled a thin wire out of one of his pouches. After all, he
told his shaking hands sternly, what is death to a kender but the greatest
adventure of all? And then there's Flint out there, by himself. Probably
getting into all sorts of scraps.... His hands now quite steady, Tas inserted
the wire carefully into the lock and set to work.
Suddenly there was a harsh roar behind him; he heard Tika shout and the sound
of steel clashing against steel.
Tas dared a quick look. Tika had never learned the art of swordsmanship, but
she was a skilled barroom brawler. Hacking and slashing with the blade, she
kicked and gouged and bit and battered. The fury and ferocity of her attack
drove the draconians back a pace. All of them were slashed and bleeding; one
wallowed in green blood on the floor, its arm hanging uselessly.
But she couldn't hold them off much longer. Tas turned back to his work, but
now his hands trembled, the slender tool slipped out of his clammy grasp. The
trick was to spring the lock without springing the trap. He could see the
trap-a tiny needle held in place by a coiled spring.
Stop it! he ordered himself. Was this any way for a kender to act? He inserted
the wire again carefully, his hands steady once more. Suddenly, just as he
almost had it, he was jostled from behind.
"Hey," he shouted irritably at Tika, turning around. "Be a little more
careful-" He stopped short. The dream! He had said those exact words. And-as
in the dream-he saw Tika, lying at his feet, blood flowing into her red curls.
"No!" Tas shrieked in rage. The wire slipped, his hand struck the lock.
There was a click as the lock opened. And with the click came another small
sound, a brittle sound, barely heard; a sound like "snick," The trap was
sprung.
Wide-eyed, Tas stared at the tiny spot of blood on his finger, then at the
small golden needle protruding from the lock. The draconians had him now,
grasping him by the shoulder. Tas ignored them. It didn't matter anyway. There
was a stinging pain in his finger and soon the pain would spread up his arm
and throughout his body.
When it reaches my heart, I won't feel it anymore, he told himself dreamily. I
won't feel anything.
Then he heard horns, blaring horns, brass horns. He had heard those horns
before. Where? That's right. It was in Tarsis, right before the dragons came.
And then the draconians that had been hanging on to him were gone, running
frantically back down the corridor.
"Must be some sort of general alarm," Tas thought, noticing with interest that
his legs wouldn't hold him up anymore. He slid down to the floor, down beside
Tika. Reaching out a shaking hand, he gently stroked her pretty red curls, now
matted with blood. Her face was white, her eyes closed.
"I'm sorry, Tika," Tas said, his throat constricting. The pain was spreading
quickly, his fingers and feet had gone numb. He couldn't move them. "I'm
sorry, Caramon. I tried, I truly tried-" Weeping quietly, Tas sat back against
the door and waited for the darkness.

Tanis could not move and-for a moment, hearing Laurana's heartbroken sob-he
had no wish to move. If anything, he begged a merciful god to strike him dead
as he knelt before the Dark Queen. But the gods granted him no such favor. The
shadow lifted as the Queen's attention shifted elsewhere, away from him. Tanis
struggled to his feet, his face flushed with shame. He could not look at
Laurana, he dared not even meet Kitiara's eyes, knowing well the scorn he
would see in their brown depths.
But Kitiara had more important matters on her mind. This was her moment of
glory. Her plans were coming together. Thrusting out her hand, she caught
Tanis in her strong grip as he was about to come forward to offer himself as
escort to Laurana. Coldly, she shoved him backward and moved to stand in front
of him.
"Finally, I wish to reward a servant of my own who helped me capture the
elfwoman. Lord Soth has asked that he be granted the soul of this
Lauralanthalasa, that he might thus gain his revenge over the elfwoman
who-long ago-cast the curse upon him. If he be doomed to live in eternal
darkness, then he asks that this elfwoman share his life within death."
"No!" Laurana raised her head, fear and horror penetrating her numb senses.
"No," she repeated in a strangled voice.
Taking a step backwards, she looked about her wildly for some escape, but it
was impossible. Below her, the floor writhed with draconians, staring up at
her eagerly. Choking in despair, she glanced once at Tanis. His face was dark
and forbidding; he was not looking at her, but stared with burning eyes at the
human woman. Already regretting her wretched outburst, Laurana determined that
she would die before she gave way to any further weakness in front of either
of them, ever again. Drawing herself up proudly, she lifted her head, in
control once more.
Tanis did not even see Laurana. Kitiara's words beat like blood in his head,
clouding his vision and his thoughts. Furious, he took a step forward to stand
near Kitiara. "You betrayed me!" he choked. "This was not part of the plan!"
"Hush!" ordered Kit in a low voice. "Or you will destroy everything!"
"What-"
"Shut up!" Kitiara snapped viciously.
Your gift pleases me well, Lord Kitiara. The dark voice penetrated Tanis's
anger. I grant your requests. The elfwoman's soul will be given to Lord Soth,
and we accept the half-elf into our service. In recognition of this, he will
lay his sword at the feet of Lord Ariakas.
"Well, go on!" demanded Kitiara coldly, her eyes on Tanis. The eyes of
everyone in the room were on the half-elf.
His mind swam. "What?" he muttered. "You didn't tell me this! What do I do?"
"Ascend the platform and lay your sword at Ariakas's feet," Kitiara answered
swiftly, escorting him to the edge of the platform. "He will pick it up and
return it to you, then you will be an officer in the dragonarmies. It is
ritual, nothing more. But it buys me time."
"Time for what? What do you have planned?" Tanis asked harshly, his foot on
the stair leading down. He caught hold of her arm. "You should have told me-"
"The less you know the better, Tanis." Kitiara smiled charmingly, for the sake
of those watching. There was some nervous laughter, a few crude jokes at what
appeared to be a lover's parting. But Tanis saw no answering smile in Kit's
brown eyes. "Remember who stands next to me upon this platform," Kitiara
whispered. Caressing the hilt of her sword. Kit gave Laurana a meaningful
glance. "Do nothing rash." Turning away from him, she walked back to stand
beside Laurana.
Trembling in fear and rage, his thoughts whirling in confusion, Tanis stumbled
down the stairs leading from the snake's-head platform. The noise of the
assembly rolled around him like the crash of oceans. Light flashed off
spearpoints, the torch flames blurred in his vision. He set his foot upon the
floor and began to walk toward Ariakas's platform without any clear idea of
where he was or what he was doing. Moving by reflex alone, he made his way
across the marble floor.
The faces of the draconians who made up Ariakas's guard of honor floated
around him like a hideous nightmare. He saw them as disembodied heads, rows of
gleaming teeth, and flicking tongues. They parted before him, the stairs
materialized at his feet as if rising out of fog.
Lifting his head, he stared up bleakly. At the top stood Lord Ariakas, a huge
man, majestic, armed with power. All the light in the room seemed to be drawn
into the Crown upon his head. Its brilliance dazzled the eyes, and Tanis
blinked, blinded, as he began to climb the steps, his hand on his sword.
Had Kitiara betrayed him? Would she keep her promise? Tanis doubted it.
Bitterly he cursed himself. Once more he had fallen under her spell. Once more
he had played the fool, trusting her. And now she held all the game pieces.
There was nothing he could do ... or was there?
An idea came to Tanis so suddenly he stopped, one foot on one step, the other
on the step below.
Idiot! Keep walking, he commanded, feeling everyone staring at him. Forcing
himself to retain some outward semblance of calm, Tanis climbed up another
step and another. As he drew closer and closer to Lord Ariakas, the plan
became clearer and dearer.
Whoever holds the Crown, rules! The words rang in Tanis's mind.
Kill Ariakas, take the Crown! It will be simple! Tanis's gaze flashed around
the alcove feverishly. No guards stood beside Ariakas, of course. No one but
Highlords were allowed on the platforms. But he didn't even have guards on the
stairs as did the other Highlords. Apparently the man was so arrogant, so
secure in his power, he had dispensed with them.
Tanis's thoughts raced. Kitiara will trade her soul for that Crown. And as
long as I hold it, she will be wine to command! I can save Laurana ... we can
escape together! Once we are safely out of here, I can explain things to
Laurana, I can explain everything! I'll draw my sword, but instead of placing
it at Lord Ariakas's feet, I will run it through him! Once the Crown is in my
hand, no one will dare touch me!
Tanis found himself shaking with excitement. With an effort, he forced himself
to calm down. He could not look at Ariakas, fearing the man might see his
desperate plan in his eyes.
He kept his gaze upon the stairs, therefore, and he knew he was near Lord
Ariakas only when he saw five steps remained between himself and the top of
the platform. Tanis's hand twitched upon the sword. Feeling himself under
control, he raised his gaze to look into the man's face and, for an instant,
was almost unnerved at the evil revealed there. It was a face made passionless
by ambition, a face that had seen the deaths of thousands of innocents as the
means only to an end.
Ariakas had been watching Tanis with a bored expression, a smile of amused
contempt on his face. Then he lost interest in the half-elf completely, having
other matters to worry about. Tanis saw the man's gaze go to Kitiara,
pondering. Ariakas had the look of a player leaning across a game board,
contemplating his next move, trying to guess what his opponent intends.
Filled with revulsion and hatred, Tanis began to slide the blade of his sword
from its scabbard. Even if he failed in his attempt to save Laurana, even if
they both died within these walls, at least he would accomplish some good in
the world by killing the Commander of the Dragonarmies.
But as he heard Tanis draw his sword, Ariakas's eyes flashed back to the
half-elf once again. Their black stare penetrated Tanis's soul. He felt the
man's tremendous power overwhelm him, hitting him like a blast of heat from a
furnace. And then realization struck Tanis a blow almost physical in its
impact, nearly causing him to stagger on the stairs.
That aura of power surrounding him . . . Ariakas was a magic-user!
Blind stupid fool! Tanis cursed himself. For now, as he drew nearer, he saw a
shimmering wall surrounding the Lord. Of course, that's why there were no
guards! Among this crowd, Ariakas would trust no one. He would use his own
magic to guard himself!
And he was on his guard, now. That much Tanis could read clearly in the cold,
passionless eyes.
The half-elf's shoulders slumped. He was defeated.
And then, "Strike, Tanis! Do not fear his magic! I will aid you!"
The voice was no more than a whisper, yet so clear and so intense, Tanis could
practically feel hot breath touch his ear. His hair raised on the back of his
neck, a shudder convulsed his body.
Shivering, he glanced hastily around. There was no one near him, no one except
Ariakas! He was only three steps away, scowling, obviously anxious for this
ceremony to come to an end. Seeing Tanis hesitate, Ariakas made a peremptory
motion for the half-elf to lay his sword at his feet.
Who had spoken? Suddenly Tanis's eyes were caught by the sight of a figure
standing near the Queen of Darkness. Robed in black, it had escaped his notice
before. Now he stared at it, thinking it seemed familiar. Had the voice come
from that figure? If so, the figure made no sign or movement. What should he
do? he wondered frantically.
"Strike, Tanis!" whispered once more in his brain. "Swiftly!"
Sweating, his hand shaking, Tanis slowly drew his sword. He was level with
Ariakas now. The shimmering wall of the Lord's magic surrounded him like a
rainbow glittering off sparkling water.
I have no choice, Tanis said to himself. If it is a trap, so be it. I choose
this way to die.
Feigning to kneel, holding his sword hilt-first to lay it upon the marble
platform, Tanis suddenly reversed his stroke. Turning it into a killing blow,
he lunged for Ariakas's heart.
Tanis expected to die. Gritting his teeth as he struck, he braced himself for
the magic shield to wither him like a tree struck by lightning.
And lightning did strike, but not him! To his amazement, the rainbow wall
exploded, his sword penetrated. He felt it hit solid flesh. A fierce cry of
pain and outrage nearly deafened him.
Ariakas staggered backwards as the sword blade slid into his chest. A lesser
man would have died from that blow, but Ariakas's strength and anger held
Death at bay. His face twisted in hatred, he struck Tanis across the face,
sending him reeling to the floor of the platform.
Pain burst in Tanis's head. Dimly, he saw his sword fall beside him, red with
blood. For a moment, he thought he was going to lose consciousness and that
would mean his death, his death and Laurana's. Groggily he shook his head to
clear it. He must hang on! He must gain the Crown! Looking up, he saw Ariakas
looming above him, hands lifted, prepared to cast a spell that would end
Tanis's life.
Tanis could do nothing. He had no protection against the magic and somehow he
knew that his unseen helper would help no more. It had already achieved what
it desired.
But powerful as Ariakas was, there was a greater power he could not conquer.
He choked, his mind wavered, the words of magic spell were lost in a terrible
pain. Looking down, he saw his own blood stain the purple robes, the stain
grew larger and larger with each passing moment as his life poured from his
severed heart. Death was coming to claim him. He could stave it off no longer.
Desperately Ariakas battled the darkness, crying out at the last to his Dark
Queen for help.
But she abandoned weaklings. As she had watched Ariakas strike down his
father, so she watched Ariakas himself fall, her name the last sound to pass
his lips.
There was uneasy silence in the Hall of Audience as Ariakas's body tumbled to
the floor. The Crown of Power fell from his head with a clatter and lay within
a tangle of blood and thick, black hair.
Who would claim it?
There was a piercing scream. Kitiara called out a name, called to someone.
Tanis could not understand. He didn't care anyway. He stretched out his hand
for the Crown.
Suddenly a figure in black armor materialized before him.
Lord Soth!
Fighting down a feeling of sheer panic and terror, Tanis kept his mind focused
on one thing. The Crown was only inches beyond his fingers. Desperately he
lunged for it. Thankfully he felt the cold metal bite into his flesh just as
another hand-a skeletal hand-made a grab for it, too.
It was his! Soth's burning eyes flared. The skeletal hand reached out to wrest
the prize away. Tanis could hear Kitiara's voice, shrieking incoherent
commands.
But as he lifted the blood-stained piece of metal above his head, as his eyes
fixed unafraid upon Lord Soth, the hushed silence in the Hall was split by the
sound of horns, harsh blaring horns.
Lord Soth's hand paused in mid-air, Kitiara's voice fell suddenly silent.
There was a subdued, ominous murmur from the crowd. For an instant, Tanis's
pain-clouded mind thought the horns might be sounding in his honor. But then,
turning his head to peer dimly into the Hall, he saw faces glancing around in
alarm. Everyone-even Kitiara-looked at the Dark Queen.
Her Dark Majesty's shadowy eyes had been on Tanis, but now their gaze was
abstracted. Her shadow grew and intensified, spreading through the Hall like a
dark cloud. Reacting to some unspoken command, draconians wearing her black
insignia ran from their posts around the edge of the Hall and disappeared
through the doors. The black-robed figure Tanis had seen standing beside the
Queen vanished.
And still the horns blared. Holding the Crown in his hand, Tanis stared down
at it numbly. Twice before, the harsh blaring of the horns had brought death
and destruction. What was the terrible portent of the dread music this time?

10
"Whoever Wears the Crown, Rules."

So loud and startling was the sound of the horns that Caramon nearly lost his
footing on the wet stone. Reacting instinctively, Berem caught him. Both men
stared around them in alarm as the blaring trumpet calls dinned loudly in the
small chamber. Above them-up the stairs-they could hear answering trumpet
calls.
"The arch! It was trapped!" Caramon repeated. "Well, that s done it. Every
living thing in the Temple knows we're here, wherever here is! I hope to the
gods you know what you're doing!"
"Jasla calls-" Berem repeated. His momentary alarm at the blaring trumpets
dissipating, he continued forward, tugging Caramon along behind him.
Holding the torch aloft, not knowing what else to do or where else to go,
Caramon followed. They were in a cavern apparently cut through the rock by
flowing water. The archway led to stone stairs and these stairs, Caramon saw,
led straight down into a black, swiftly flowing stream. He flashed the torch
around, hoping that there might be a path along the edge of the stream. But
there was nothing, at least within the perimeter of his torchlight.
"Wait-" he cried, but Berem had already plunged into the black water. Caramon
caught his breath, expecting to see the man vanish in the swirling depths. But
the dark water was not as deep as it looked, it came only to Berem's calves.
"Come!" He beckoned Caramon.
Caramon touched the wound in his side again. The bleeding seemed to have
slowed, the bandage was moist but not soaked. The pain was still intense,
however. His head ached, and he was so exhausted from fear and running and
loss of blood that he was light-headed. He thought briefly of Tika and Tas,
even more briefly of Tanis. No, he must put them out of his mind.
The end is near, for good or for evil, Tika had said. Caramon was beginning to
believe it himself. Stepping into the water, he felt the strong current
sweeping him forward and he had the giddy feeling that the current was time,
sweeping him ahead to-what? His own doom? The end of the world? Or hope for a
new beginning?
Berem eagerly sloshed ahead of him, but Caramon dragged him back again.
"We'll stick together," the big man said, his deep voice echoing in the
cavern. "There may be more traps, worse than that one."
Berem hesitated long enough for Caramon to join him. Then they moved slowly,
side by side, through the rushing water, testing each footstep, for the bottom
was slick and treacherous with crumbling stone and loose rock.
Caramon was wading forward, breathing easier, when something struck his
leather boot with such force it nearly knocked his feet out from under him.
Staggering, he caught hold of Berem.
"What was that?" he growled, holding the flaring torch above the water.
Seemingly attracted by the light, a head lifted out of the shining wet
blackness. Caramon sucked in his breath in horror, and even Berem was
momentarily taken aback.
"Dragons!" Caramon whispered. "Hatchlings!" The small dragon opened its mouth
in a shrill scream. Torchlight gleamed on rows of razor-sharp teeth. Then the
head vanished and Caramon felt the creature strike at his boot once more.
Another one hit his other leg; he saw the water boil with flailing tails.
His leather boots kept them from hurting him now, but, Caramon thought, if I
fall, the creatures will strip the flesh from my bones!
He had faced death in many forms, but none more terrifying than this. For a
moment he panicked. I'll turn back, he thought frantically. Berem can go on
alone. After all, he can't die.
Then the big warrior took hold of himself. No, he sighed. They know we're down
here now. They'll send someone or something to try and stop us. I've got to
hold off whatever it is until Berem can do whatever he's supposed to do.
That last thought made no sense at all, Caramon realized. It was so ludicrous
it was almost funny and, as if mocking his decision, the quiet was broken by
the sound of clashing steel and harsh shouts, coming from behind them.
This is insane! he admitted wearily. I don't understand! I may die down here
in the darkness and for what? Maybe I'm down here with a crazy man! Maybe I'm
going crazy!
Now Berem became aware of the guards coming after them. This frightened him
more than dragons, and he plunged ahead. Sighing, Caramon forced himself to
ignore the slithering attacks at his feet and legs as he waded forward through
the black, rushing water, trying to keep up with Berem.
The man stared constantly ahead into the darkness, occasionally making moaning
sounds and wringing his hands in anxiety. The stream led them around a curve
where the water grew deeper. Caramon wondered what he would do if the water
rose higher than his boots. The dragon young were still frantically chasing
after them, the warm smell of human blood and flesh driving them into a
frenzy. The sounds of sword and spear rattling grew louder.
Then something blacker than night flew at Caramon, striking him in the face.
Flailing, trying desperately to keep from falling into that deadly water, he
dropped his torch. The light vanished with a sizzle as Berem made a wild grab
for him and caught him. The two held onto each other for a moment,
staring-lost and confused-into the darkness.
If he had been struck blind, Caramon could not have been more disoriented.
Though he had not moved, he had no idea what direction he faced, he couldn't
remember a thing about his surroundings. He had the feeling that if he took
one more step, he would plunge into nothingness and fall forever. . .
"There it is!" Berem said, catching his breath with a strangled sob. "I see
the broken column, the jewels gleaming on it! And she is there! She is waiting
for me, she has waited all these years! Jasla!" he screamed, straining
forward.
Peering ahead into the darkness, Caramon held Berem back, though he could feel
the man's body quivering with emotion. He could see nothing ... or could he?
Yes! A deep sense of thankfulness and relief flooded his pain-racked body. He
could see jewels sparkling in the distance, shining in the blackness with a
light it seemed even this heavy darkness could not quench.
It was just a short distance ahead of them, not more than a hundred feet.
Relaxing his grip on Berem, Caramon thought, Perhaps this is a way out-for me,
at least. Let Berem join this ghostly sister of his. All I want is a way out,
a way to get back to Tika and Tas.
His confidence returning, Caramon strode forward. A matter of minutes and it
would be over ... for good ... or for...
"Shirak" spoke a voice.
A bright light flared.
Caramon's heart ceased to beat for an instant. Slowly, slowly he lifted his
head to look into that bright light, and there he saw two golden, glittering,
hourglass eyes staring at him from the I depths of a black hood.
The breath left his body in a sigh that was like the sigh of a dying man.

The blaring trumpets ceased, a measure of calm returned to the Hall of
Audience. Once more, the eyes of everyone in the Hall-including the Dark
Queen-turned to the drama on the platform.
Gripping the Crown in his hand, Tanis rose to his feet. He had no idea what
the horn calls portended, what doom might be about to fall. He only knew that
he must play the game out to its end, bitter as that may be.
Laurana ... she was his one thought. Wherever Berem and Caramon and the others
were, they were beyond his help. Tanis's eyes fixed on the silver-armored
figure standing on the snake-headed platform below him. Almost by accident,
his gaze flicked to Kitiara, standing beside Laurana, her face hidden behind
the hideous dragonmask. She made a gesture.
Tanis felt more than heard movement behind him, like a chill wind brushing his
skin. Whirling, he saw Lord Soth coming toward him, death burning in the
orange eyes.
Tanis backed up, the Crown in his hand, knowing he could not fight this
opponent from beyond the grave.
"Stop!" he shouted, holding the Crown poised above the floor of the Hall of
Audience. "Stop him, Kitiara, or with my last dying strength I will hurl this
into the crowd."
Soth laughed soundlessly, advancing upon him, the skeletal hand that could
kill by a touch alone outstretched.
"What 'dying strength?' " the death knight asked softly. "My magic will
shrivel your body to dust, the Crown will fall at my feet."
"Lord Soth," rang out a clear voice from the platform from the center of the
Hall, "halt. Let him who won the Crown bring it to me!"
Soth hesitated. His hand still reaching for Tanis, his flaming eyes turned
their vacant gaze upon Kitiara, questioning.
Removing the dragonhelm from her head, Kitiara looked only at Tanis. He could
see her brown eyes gleaming and her cheeks flushed with excitement.
"You will bring me the Crown, won't you, Tanis?" Kitiara called,
Tanis swallowed. "Yes," he said, licking his dry lips. "I will bring you the
Crown."
"My guards!" Kitiara ordered, waving them forward. "An escort. Anyone who
touches him will die by my hand. Lord Soth, see that he reaches me safely."
Tanis glanced at Lord Soth, who slowly lowered his deadly hand. "He is your
master, still, my lady," Tanis thought he heard the death knight whisper with
a sneer.
Then Soth fell into step beside him, the ghostly chill emanating from the
knight nearly congealing Tanis's blood. Together they descended the stairs, an
odd pair-the pallid knight in the blackened armor, the half-elf clutching the
bloodstained Crown in his hand.
Ariakas's officers, who had been standing at the foot of the stairs, weapons
drawn, fell back, some reluctantly. As Tanis reached the marble floor and
passed by them, many gave him black looks. He saw the flash of a dagger in one
hand, an unspoken promise in the dark eyes.
Their own swords drawn, Kitiara's guards fell in around him, but it was Lord
Soth's deathly aura that obtained safe passage for him through the crowded
floor. Tanis began to sweat beneath his armor. So this is power, he realized.
Whoever has the Crown, rules-but that could all end in the dead of night with
one thrust of an assassin's dagger!
Tanis kept walking, and soon he and Lord Soth reached the bottom of the stairs
leading up to the platform shaped like the head of the hooded snake. At the
top stood Kitiara, beautiful in triumph. Tanis climbed the spurlike stairs
alone, leaving Soth standing at the bottom, his orange eyes burning in their
hollow sockets. As Tanis reached the top of the platform, the top of the
snake's head, he could see Laurana, standing behind Kitiara. Laurana's face
was pale, cool, composed. She glanced at him- and at the bloodstained
Crown-then turned her head away. He had no idea what she was thinking or
feeling. It didn't matter. He would explain-
Running over to him, Kitiara grasped him in her arms. Cheers resounded in the
Hall.
"Tanis!" she breathed. "Truly you and I were meant to rule together! You were
wonderful, magnificent! I will give you anything . . . anything-"
"Laurana?" Tanis asked coldly, under the cover of the noise. His slightly
slanted eyes, the eyes that gave away his heritage, stared down into Kitiara's
brown eyes.
Kit flicked a glance at the elfwoman, whose gaze was so fixed, whose skin was
so pale she might have been a corpse.
"If you want her." Kitiara shrugged, then drew closer, her voice for him
alone- "But you will have me, Tanis. By day we will command armies, rule the
world. The nights, Tanis! They will be ours alone, yours and mine." Her breath
came fast, her hands reached up to stroke his bearded face. "Place the Crown
on my head, beloved."
Tanis stared down into the brown eyes, he saw them filled with warmth and
passion and excitement. He could feel Kitiara's body pressed against his,
trembling, eager. Around him, the troops were shouting madly, the noise
swelling like a wave. Slowly Tanis raised the hand that held the Crown of
Power, slowly he lifted it-not to Kitiara's head-but to his own.
"No, Kitiara," he shouted so that all could hear. "One of us will rule by day
and by night-me."
There was laughter in the Hall, mixed with angry rumblings. Kitiara's eyes
widened in shock, then swiftly narrowed.
"Don't try it," Tanis said, catching her hand as she reached for the knife at
her belt. Holding her fast, he looked down at her. "I'm going to leave the
Hall now," he said softly, speaking for her ears alone, "with Laurana. You and
your troops will escort us out of here. When we are safely outside this evil
place, I will give you the Crown. Betray me, and you will never hold it. Do
you understand?"
Kitiara's lips twisted in a sneer. "So she is truly all you care about?" she
whispered caustically.
"Truly," Tanis replied. Gripping her arm harder, he saw pain in her eyes. "I
swear this on the souls of two I loved dearly- Sturm Brightblade and Flint
Fireforge. Do you believe me?"
"I believe you," Kitiara said in bitter anger. Looking up at him, reluctant
admiration flared once more in her eyes. "You could have had so much . . ."
Tanis released her without a word. Turning, he walked over to Laurana, who was
standing with her back to them, gazing sightlessly above the crowd. Tanis
gripped her arm. "Come with me," he commanded coldly. The noise of the crowd
rose up around him while above him, he was aware of the dark shadowy figure of
the Queen, watching the flux of power intently, waiting to see who would
emerge strongest.
Laurana did not flinch at his touch. She did not react at all. Moving her head
slowly, the honey-blonde hair falling in a tangled mass around her shoulders,
she looked at him. The green eyes were without recognition, expressionless. He
saw nothing in them, not fear, not anger.
It will be all right, he told her silently, his heart aching. I will explain-
There was a flash of silver, a blur of golden hair. Something struck Tanis
hard in the chest. He staggered backwards, grasping for Laurana as he
stumbled. But he could not hold her. Shoving him aside, Laurana sprang at
Kitiara, her hand grabbing for the sword Kit wore at her side. Her move caught
the human woman completely by surprise. Kit struggled briefly, fiercely, but
Laurana already had her hands upon the hilt. With a smooth movement, she
yanked Kit's sword from the scabbard and jabbed the sword hilt into Kitiara's
face, knocking her to the platform. Turning, Laurana ran to the edge.
"Laurana, stop!" Tanis shouted. Jumping forward to catch her, he suddenly felt
the point of her sword at his throat.
"Don't move, Tanthalasa," Laurana ordered. Her green eyes were dilated with
excitement, she held the sword point with unwavering steadiness. "Or you will
die. I will kill you, if I have to."
Tanis took a step forward. The sharp blade pierced his skin. Helpless, he
stopped. Laurana smiled sadly.
"You see, Tanis? I'm not the lovesick child you knew. I'm not my father's
daughter, living in my father's court. I'm not even the Golden General. I am
Laurana. And I will live or die on my own without your help "
"Laurana, listen to me!" Tanis pleaded, taking another step toward her,
reaching up to thrust aside the sword blade that cut into his skin.
He saw Laurana's lips press together tightly, her green eyes glinted. Then,
sighing, she slowly lowered the sword blade to his armor-plated chest. Tanis
smiled. Laurana shrugged and, with a swift thrust, shoved him backwards off
the platform.
Arms flailing wildly in the air, the half-elf tumbled to the floor below. As
he fell, he saw Laurana-sword in hand-jump off after him, landing lightly on
her feet.
He hit the floor heavily, knocking the breath from his body. The Crown of
Power rolled from his head with a clatter and went skittering across the
polished granite floor. Above him, he could hear Kitiara shriek in rage.
"Laurana!" He gasped without breath to shout, looking for her frantically. He
saw a flash of silver...
"The Crown! Bring me the Crown!" Kitiara's voice dinned in his ears.
But she was not the only one shouting. All around the Hall of Audience, the
Highlords were on their feet, ordering their troops forward. The dragons
sprang into the air. The Dark Queen's five-headed body filled the Hall with
shadow, exulting in this test of strength that would provide her with the
strongest commanders-the survivors.
Clawed draconian feet, booted goblin feet, steel-shod human feet trampled over
Tanis. Struggling to stand, fighting desperately to keep from being crushed,
he tried to follow that silver flash. He saw it once, then it was gone, lost
in the melee. A twisted face appeared in front of him, dark eyes flashed. A
spear butt smashed into his side.
Groaning, Tanis collapsed to the floor as chaos erupted in the Hall of
Audience.

11
"Jasla calls-"

Raistlin! It was a thought, not spoken. Caramon tried to talk, but no sound
came from his throat.
"Yes, my brother," said Raistlin, answering his brother's thoughts, as usual.
"It is I-the last guardian, the one you must pass to reach your goal, the one
Her Dark Majesty commanded be present if the trumpets should sound." Raistlin
smiled derisively. "And I might have known it would be you who foolishly
tripped my spelltrap..."
"Raist," Caramon began and choked.
For a moment he could not speak. Worn out from fear and pain and loss of
blood, shivering in the cold water, Caramon found this almost too much to
bear. It would be easier to let the dark waters close over his head, let the
sharp teeth of the young dragons tear his flesh. The pain could not be nearly
so bad. Then he felt Berem stir beside him. The man was staring at Raistlin
vaguely, not understanding. He tugged on Caramon's arm.
''Jasla calls. We must go."
With a sob, Caramon tore his arm away from the man's grasp. Berem glared at
him angrily, then turned and started ahead on his own.
"No, my friend, no one's going anywhere." Raistlin raised his thin hand and
Berem came to a sudden, staggering stop. The Everman lifted his gaze to the
gleaming golden eyes of the mage, standing above him on a rock ledge.
Whimpering, wringing his hands, Berem gazed ahead longingly at the jeweled
column. But he could not move. A great and terrible force stood blocking his
path, as surely as the mage stood upon the rock.
Caramon blinked back sudden tears. Feeling his brother's power, he fought
against despair. There was nothing he could do... except try and kill
Raistlin. His soul shriveled in horror. No, he would die himself first!
Suddenly Caramon raised his head. So be it. If I must die, I'll die
fighting-as I had always intended. Even if it means dying by my own brother's
hand. Slowly Caramon's gaze met that of his twin. "You wear the Black Robes
now?" he asked through parched lips. "I can't see ... in this light..."
"Yes, my brother," Raistlin replied, raising the Staff of Magius to let the
silver light shine upon him. Robes of softest velvet fell from his thin
shoulders, shimmering black beneath the light, seeming darker than the eternal
night that surrounded them.
Shivering as he thought of what he must do, Caramon continued, "And your
voice, it's stronger, different. Like you . . . and yet not like you . . ."
"That is a long story, Caramon," Raistlin replied. "In time, you may come to
hear it. But now you are in a very bad situation, my brother. The draconian
guards are coming. Their orders are to capture the Everman and take him before
the Dark Queen. That will be the end of him. He is not immortal, I assure you.
She has spells that will unravel his existence, leaving him little more than
thin threads of flesh and soul, wafting away on the winds of the storm. Then
she will devour his sister and-at last-the Dark Queen will be free to enter
Krynn in her full power and majesty. She will rule the world and all the
planes of heaven and the Abyss. Nothing will stop her."
"I don't understand-"
"No, of course not, dear brother," Raistlin said, with a touch of the old
irritation and sarcasm. "You stand next to the Everman, the one being in all
of Krynn who can end this war and drive the Queen of Darkness back to her
shadowy realm. And you do not understand."
Moving nearer the edge of the rock ledge upon which he stood, Raistlin bent
down, leaning on his staff. He beckoned his brother near. Caramon trembled,
unable to move, fearing Raistlin might cast a spell upon him. But his brother
only regarded him intently.
"The Everman has only to take a few more steps, my brother, and he will be
reunited with the sister who has endured unspeakable agonies during these long
years of waiting for his return to free her from her self-imposed torment."
"And what will happen then?" Caramon faltered, his brother's eyes holding him
fast with a simple power greater than any magic spell.
The golden, hourglass eyes narrowed, Raistlin's voice grew soft. No longer
forced to whisper, the mage yet found whispering more compelling.
"The wedge will be removed, my dear brother, and the door will slam shut. The
Dark Queen will be left howling in rage in the depths of the Abyss." Raistlin
lifted his gaze and made a gesture with his pale, slender hand. "This . . .
the Temple of Istar reborn, perverted by evil... will fall."
Caramon gasped, then his expression hardened into a scowl.
"No, I am not lying." Raistlin answered his brother's thoughts. "Not that I
can't lie when it suits my purposes. But you will find, dear brother, that we
are close enough still so that I cannot lie to you. And, in any case, I have
no need to lie-it suits my purpose that you know the truth."
Caramon's mind floundered. He didn't understand any of this. But he didn't
have time to dwell on it. Behind him, echoing back down the tunnel, he could
hear the sound of draconian guards on the stairs. His expression grew calm,
his face set in firm resolve.
"Then you know what I must do, Raist," he said. "You may be powerful, but you
still have to concentrate to work your magic. And if you work it against me,
Berem will be free of your power. You can't kill him"-Caramon hoped devoutly
Berem was listening and would act when it was time--"only your Dark Queen can
do that, I suppose. So that leaves-"
"You, my dear brother," Raistlin said softly. "Yes, I can kill you..."
Standing, he raised his hand and-before Caramon could yell or think or even
fling up his arm-a ball of flame lit the darkness as if a sun had dropped into
it. Bursting full upon Caramon, it smote him backwards into the black water.
Burned and blinded by the brilliant light, stunned by the force of the impact,
Caramon felt himself losing consciousness, sinking beneath the dark waters.
Then sharp teeth bit into his arm, tearing away the flesh. The searing pain
brought back his failing senses. Screaming in agony and terror, Caramon fought
frantically to rise out of the deadly stream.
Shivering uncontrollably, he stood up. The young dragons, having tasted blood,
attacked him, striking at his leather boots in frenzied frustration. Clutching
his arm, Caramon looked over quickly at Berem and saw, to his dismay, that
Berem hadn't moved an inch.
"Jasla! I am here! I will free you!" Berem screamed, but he stood, frozen in
place by the spell. Frantically he beat upon the unseen wall that blocked his
path. The man was nearly insane with grief.
Raistlin watched calmly as his brother stood before him, blood streaming from
the slashed skin on his bare arms.
"I am powerful, Caramon," Raistlin said, staring coldly into the anguished
eyes of his twin. "With Tanis's unwitting help, I was able to rid myself of
the one man upon Krynn who could have bested me. Now I am the most powerful
force for magic in this world. And I will be more powerful still... with the
Dark Queen gone!"
Caramon looked at his brother dazedly, unable to comprehend. Behind him, he
heard splashes in the water and the draconians shouting in triumph. Too
stupefied to move, he could not take his eyes from his brother. Only dimly,
when he saw Raistlin raise his hand and make a gesture toward Berem, did
Caramon begin to understand.
At that gesture, Berem was freed. The Everman cast one quick backward glance
at Caramon and at the draconians plunging through the water, their curved
swords flashing in the light of the staff. Finally he looked at Raistlin,
standing upon the rock in his long black robes. Then-with a joyful cry that
rang through the tunnel-Berem leaped forward toward the jeweled column.
"Jasla, I am coming!"
"Remember, my brother"-Raistlin's voice echoed in Caramon's mind-"this happens
because I choose it to happen!"
Looking back, Caramon could see the draconians screaming in rage at the sight
of their prey escaping. The dragons tore at his leather boots, his wounds hurt
horribly, but Caramon didn't notice. Turning again, he watched Berem run
toward the jeweled column as if he were watching a dream. Indeed, it seemed
less real than a dream.
Perhaps it was his fevered imagination, but as the Everman neared the jeweled
column, the green jewel in his chest seemed to glow with a light more
brilliant than Raistlin's burst of flame. Within that light, the pale,
shimmering form of a woman appeared inside the jeweled column. Dressed in a
plain, leather tunic, she was pretty in a fragile, winsome way, very like
Berem in the eyes that were too young for her thin face.
Then, just as he neared her, Berem came to a stop in the water. For an instant
nothing moved. The draconians stood still, swords clutched in their clawed
hands. Dimly, not understanding, they began to realize that somehow their fate
hung in the balance, that everything turned upon this man.
Caramon no longer felt the chill of the air or the water or the pain of his
wounds. He no longer felt fear, despair, or hope. Tears welled up in his eyes,
there was a painful burning sensation in his throat. Berem faced his sister,
the sister he had murdered, the sister who had sacrificed herself so that
he-and the world-might have hope. By the light of Raistlin's staff, Caramon
saw the man's pale, grief-ravaged face twist in anguish.
"Jasla," he whispered, spreading his arms, "can you forgive me?"
There was no sound except the hushed swirl of the water around them, the
steady dripping of moisture from the rocks, as it had fallen from time
immemorial.
"My brother, between us, there is nothing to forgive." The image of Jasla
spread her arms wide in welcome, her winsome face filled with peace and love.
With an incoherent cry of pain and joy, Berem flung himself into his sister's
arms.
Caramon blinked and gasped. The image vanished. Horrified, he saw the Everman
hurl his body upon the jeweled stone column with such force that his flesh was
impaled on the sharp edges of the jagged rock. His last scream was a terrible
one, terrible-yet triumphant.
Berem's body shook convulsively. Dark blood poured over the jewels, quenching
their light.
"Berem, you've failed. It was nothing! All-" Yelling hoarsely, Caramon plunged
toward the dying man, knowing that Berem wouldn't die. This was all crazy! He
would-
Caramon stopped.
The rocks around him shuddered. The ground shook beneath his feet. The black
water ceased its swift flow and was suddenly sluggish, uncertain, sloshing
against the rocks. Behind him, he heard the draconians shouting in alarm.
Caramon stared at Berem. The body lay crushed upon the rocks. It stirred
slightly, as if breathing a final sigh. Then it did not move. For an instant
two pale figures shimmered inside the jeweled column. Then they were gone.
The Everman was dead.

Tanis lifted his head from the floor of the Hall to see a hobgoblin, spear
raised, about to plunge it into his body. Rolling quickly, he grabbed the
creature's booted foot and yanked. The hobgoblin crashed to the floor where
another hobgoblin, this one dressed in a different colored uniform, smashed
its head open with a mace.
Hurriedly Tanis rose to his feet. He had to get out of here! He had to find
Laurana. A draconian rushed at him. He thrust his sword through the creature
impatiently, remembering just in time to free it before the body turned to
stone. Then he heard a voice shout his name. Turning he saw Lord Soth,
standing beside Kitiara, surrounded by his skeletal warriors. Kit's eyes were
fixed on Tanis with hatred, she pointed at him. Lord Soth made a gesture,
sending his skeletal followers flowing from the snake-headed platform like a
wave of death, destroying everything within their path.
Tanis turned to flee but found himself entangled in the mob.
Frantically he fought, aware of the chill force behind him. Panic flooded his
mind, nearly depriving him of his senses.
And then, there was a sharp cracking sound. The floor trembled beneath his
feet. The fighting around him stopped abruptly as everyone concentrated on
standing upright. Tanis looked around uncertainly, wondering what was
happening.
A huge chunk of mosaic-covered stone tumbled from the ceiling, falling into a
mass of draconians, who scrambled to get out of the way. The stone was
followed by another, and yet another. Torches fell from the walls, candles
dropped down and were extinguished in their own wax. The rumbling of the
ground grew stronger. Half-turning, Tanis saw that even the skeletal warriors
had halted, flaming eyes seeking those of their leader in fear and
questioning.
The floor suddenly canted away from beneath his feet. Grabbing hold of a
column for support, Tanis stared about in wonder. And then darkness fell upon
him like a crushing weight.
He has betrayed me!
The Dark Queen's anger beat in Tanis's mind, the rage and fear so strong that
it nearly split his skull. Crying aloud in pain, he grasped his head. The
darkness increased as Takhisis- seeing her danger-sought desperately to keep
the door to the world ajar. Her vast darkness quenched the light of every
flame. Wings of night filled the Hall with blackness.
All around Tanis, draconian soldiers stumbled and staggered in the
impenetrable darkness. The voices of their officers raised to try and quell
the confusion, to stem the rising panic they sensed spreading among their
troops as they felt the force of their Queen withdrawn. Tanis heard Kitiara's
voice ring out shrilly in anger, then it was cut off abruptly.
A horrible, rending crash followed by screams of agony gave Tanis his first
indication that the entire building seemed likely to fall in on top of them.
"Laurana!" Tanis screamed. Trying desperately to stand, he staggered forward
blindly, only to be hurled to the stone floor by milling draconians. Steel
clashed. Somewhere he heard Kitiara's voice again, rallying her troops.
Fighting despair, Tanis stumbled to his feet again. Pain seared his arm.
Furious, he thrust aside the sword blow aimed at him in the darkness, kicking
with all his strength at the creature attacking him. Then a rending, splitting
sound quelled the battle. For one breathless instant, everyone in the Temple
looked upward into the dense darkness. Voices hushed in awe. Takhisis, Queen
of Darkness, hung over them in her living form upon this plane. Her gigantic
body shimmered in a myriad colors. So many, so blinding, so confusing, the
senses could not comprehend her awful majesty and blotted the colors from the
minds of mortals-Many Colors and None-so Takhisis seemed. The five heads each
opened wide their gaping mouths, fire burned in the multitude of eyes, as if
each were intent upon devouring the world.
All is lost, Tanis thought in despair. This is the moment of her ultimate
victory. We have failed.
The five heads reared up in triumph... The domed ceiling split apart.
The Temple of Istar began to twist and writhe, rebuilding, reforming,
returning to the original shape it had known before darkness perverted it.
Within the Hall itself, the darkness wavered and then was shattered by the
silver beams of Solinari, called by the dwarves. Night Candle.

12
A debt repaid.

"And now, my brother, farewell."
Raistlin drew forth a small round globe from the folds of his black robes. The
dragon orb.
Caramon felt his strength seep from him. Placing his hand upon the bandage, he
found it soaked-sticky with blood. His head swam, the light from his brother's
staff wavered before his eyes. Far away, as if in a dream, he heard the
draconians shake loose from their terror and start toward him. The ground
shook beneath his feet, or perhaps it was his legs trembling.
"Kill me, Raistlin." Caramon looked at his brother with eyes that had lost all
expression. Raistlin paused, his golden eyes narrowed. "Don't leave me to die
at their hands," Caramon said calmly, asking a simple favor. "End it for me
now, quickly. You owe me that much-" The golden eyes flared.
"Owe you!" Raistlin sucked in a hissing breath. "Owe you!" he repeated in a
strangled voice, his face pale in the staff's magical light. Furious, he
turned and extended his hand toward the draconians. Lightning streaked from
his fingertips, striking the creatures in the chest. Shrieking in pain and
astonishment, they fell into the water that quickly became foaming and green
with blood as the baby dragons cannibalized their cousins.
Caramon watched dully, too weak and sick to care. He could hear more swords
rattling, more voices yelling. He slumped forward, his feet lost their
footing, the dark waters surged over him...
And then he was on solid ground. Blinking, he looked up. He was sitting on the
rock beside his brother. Raistlin knelt beside him, the staff in his hand.
"Raist!" Caramon breathed, tears coming to his eyes. Reaching out a shaking
hand, he touched his brother's arm, feeling the velvet softness of the black
robes.
Coldly, Raistlin snatched his arm away. "Know this, Caramon,'' he said, and
his voice was as chill as the dark waters around them, "I will save your life
this once, and then the slate is clean. I owe you nothing more."
Caramon swallowed. "Raist," he said softly, "I-I didn't mean-"
Raistlin ignored him. "Can you stand?" he asked harshly.
"I-I think so," Caramon said, hesitantly. "Can't-can't you just use that-that
thing-to get us out of here?" He gestured at the dragon orb.
"I could, but you wouldn't particularly enjoy the journey, my brother.
Besides, have you forgotten those who came with you?"
"Tika! Tas!" Caramon gasped. Gripping the wet rocks, he pulled himself to his
feet. "And Tanis! What about-"
"Tanis is on his own. I have repaid my debt to him tenfold," Raistlin said.
"But perhaps I can discharge my debts to others."
Shouts and yells sounded at the end of the passage, a dark mass of troops
surged into the dark water, obeying the final commands of their Queen.
Wearily Caramon put his hand on the hilt of his sword, but a touch of his
brother's cold, bony fingers stopped him.
"No, Caramon," Raistlin whispered. His thin lips parted in a grim smile. "I
don't you need you now. I won't need you anymore . . . ever. Watch!"
Instantly, the underground cavern's darkness was lit to day-like brilliance
with the fiery power of Raistlin's magic. Caramon, sword in hand, could only
stand beside his black-robed brother and watch in awe as foe after foe fell to
Raistlin's spells. Lightning crackled from his fingertips, flame flared from
his hands, phantasms appeared-so terrifyingly real to those looking at them
that they could kill by fear alone.
Goblins fell screaming, pierced by the lances of a legion of knights, who
filled the cavern with their war chants at Raistlin's bidding, then
disappeared at his command. The baby dragons fled in terror back to the dark
and secret places of their hatching, draconians withered black in the flames.
Dark clerics, who swarmed down the stairs at their Queen's last bidding, were
impaled upon a flight of shimmering spears, their last prayers changed to
wailing curses of agony.
Finally came the Black Robes, the eldest of the Order, to destroy this young
upstart. But they found to their dismay that-old as they were-Raistlin was in
some mysterious way older still. His power was phenomenal, they knew within an
instant that he could not be defeated. The air was filled with the sounds of
chanting and one by one, they disappeared as swiftly as they had come-many
bowing to Raistlin in profound respect as they departed upon the wings of wish
spells.
And then it was silent, the only sound the sluggish lapping of water. The
Staff of Magius cast its crystal light. Every few seconds a tremor shook the
Temple, causing Caramon to glance above them in alarm. The battle had
apparently lasted only moments, although it seemed to Caramon's fevered mind
that he and his brother had been in this horrible place all their lives.
When the last mage melted into the blackness, Raistlin turned to face his
brother.
"You see, Caramon?" he said coldly.
Wordlessly, the big warrior nodded, his eyes wide.
The ground shook around them, the water in the stream sloshed up on the rocks.
At the cavern's end, the jeweled column shivered, then split. Rivulets of rock
dust trickled down onto Caramon's upturned face as he stared at the crumbling
ceiling.
"What does it mean? What's happening?" he asked in alarm.
"It means the end," Raistlin stated. Folding his black robes around him, he
glanced at Caramon in irritation. "We must leave this place. Are you strong
enough?"
"Yeah, give me a moment," Caramon grunted. Pushing himself away from the
rocks, he took a step forward, then staggered, nearly falling.
"I'm weaker than I thought," he mumbled, clutching his side in pain. "Just let
me... catch my breath." Straightening, his lips pale, sweat trickling down his
face, Caramon took another step forward.
Smiling grimly, Raistlin watched his brother stumble toward him. Then the mage
held out his arm.
"Lean on me, my brother," he said softly.

The vast vaulted ceiling of the Hall of Audience split wide. Huge blocks of
stone crashed down into the Hall, crushing everything that lived beneath them.
Instantly the chaos in the Hall degenerated into terror-stricken panic.
Ignoring the stern commands of their leaders, who reinforced these commands
with whips and sword thrusts, the draconians fought to escape the destruction
of the Temple, brutally slaughtering anyone- including their own comrades-who
got in their way. Occasionally some extremely powerful Dragon Highlord would
manage to keep his bodyguard under control and escape. But several fell, cut
down by their own troops, crushed by falling rock, or trampled to death.
Tanis fought his way through the chaos and suddenly saw what he had prayed the
gods to find-a head of golden hair that gleamed in Solanari's light like a
candle flame.
"Laurana!" he cried, though he knew he could not be heard in the tumult.
Frantically he slashed his way toward her. A flying splinter of rock tore into
one cheek. Tanis felt warm blood flow down his neck, but the blood, the pain
had no reality and he soon forgot about it as he clubbed and stabbed and
kicked the milling draconians in his struggle to reach her. Time and again, he
drew near her, only to be carried away by a surge in the crowd.
She was standing near the door to one of the antechambers, fighting
draconians, wielding Kitiara's sword with the skill gained in long months of
war. He almost reached her as-her enemies defeated-she stood alone for a
moment.
"Laurana, wait!" he shouted above the chaos.
She heard him. Looking over at him, across the moonlit room, he saw her eyes
calm, her gaze unwavering.
"Farewell, Tanis," Laurana called to him in elven. "I owe you my life, but not
my soul."
With that, she turned and left him, stepping through the doorway of the
antechamber, vanishing into the darkness beyond.
A piece of the Temple ceiling crashed to the stone floor, showering Tanis with
debris. For a moment, he stood wearily, staring after her. Blood dripped into
one eye. Absently he wiped it away, then, suddenly, he began to laugh. He
laughed until tears mingled with the blood. Then he pulled himself together
and, gripping his bloodstained sword, disappeared into the darkness after her.

"This is the corridor they went down, Raist-Raistlin." Caramon stumbled over
his brother's name. Somehow, the old nickname no longer seemed to suit this
black-robed, silent figure.
They stood beside the jailor's desk, near the body of the hobgoblin. Around
them, the walls were acting crazily, shifting, crumbling, twisting,
rebuilding. The sight filled Caramon with vague horror, like a nightmare he
could not remember. So he kept his eyes fixed firmly on his brother, his hand
clutched Raistlin's thin arm thankfully. This, at least was flesh and blood,
reality in the midst of a terrifying dream.
"Do you know where it leads?" Caramon asked, peering down the eastern
corridor.
"Yes," Raistlin replied without expression.
Caramon felt fear clutch at him. "You know ... something's happened to them-"
"They were fools," Raistlin said bitterly. "The dream warned them"- he glanced
at his brother-"as it warned others. Still, I may be in time, but we must
hurry. Listen!"
Caramon glanced up the stairwell. Above him he could hear the sounds of clawed
feet racing to stop the escape of the hundreds of prisoners set free by the
collapse of the dungeons. Caramon put his hand on his sword.
"Stop it," Raistlin snapped. "Think a moment! You're dressed in armor still.
They're not interested in us. The Dark Queen is gone. They obey her no longer.
They are only after booty for themselves. Keep beside me. Walk steadily, with
purpose."
Drawing a deep breath, Caramon did as he was told. He had regained some of his
strength and was able to walk without his brother's help now. Ignoring the
draconians-who took one look at them, then surged past-the two brothers made
their way down the corridor. Here the walls still changed their shapes, the
ceiling shook, and the floors heaved. Behind them they could hear ghastly
yells as the prisoners fought for their freedom.
"At least no one will be guarding this door," Raistlin reflected, pointing
ahead.
"What do you mean?" Caramon asked, halting and staring at his brother in
alarm.
"It's trapped," Raistlin whispered. "Remember the dream?" Turning deathly
pale, Caramon dashed down the corridor toward the door. Shaking his hooded
head, Raistlin followed slowly after. Rounding the corner, he found his
brother crouching beside two bodies on the floor.
"Tika!" Caramon moaned. Brushing back the red curls from the still, white
face, he felt for the lifebeat in her neck. His eyes closed a moment in
thankfulness, then he reached out to touch the kender. "And Tas . . . No!"
Hearing his name, the kender's eyes opened slowly, as if the lids were too
heavy for him to lift.
"Caramon..." Tas said in a broken whisper. "I'm sorry...."
"Tas!" Caramon gently gathered the small, feverish body into his big arms.
Holding him close, he rocked him back and forth. "Shh, Tas, don't talk."
The kender's body twitched in convulsions. Glancing around in heartbroken
sorrow, Caramon saw Tasslehoff's pouches lying on the floor, their contents
scattered like toys in a child's playroom. Tears filled Caramon's eyes.
"I tried to save her ... " Tas whispered, shuddering with pain, "but I
couldn't..."
"You saved her, Tas!" Caramon said, choking. "She's not dead. Just hurt.
She'll be fine."
"Really?" Tas's eyes, burning with fever, brightened with a calmer light, then
dimmed. "I'm-I'm afraid I'm not fine, Caramon. But-but it's all right, really.
I-I'm going to see Flint. He's waiting for me. He shouldn't be out there, by
himself. I don't know how ... he could have left without me anyway...."
"What's the matter with him?" Caramon asked his brother as Raistlin bent
swiftly over the kender, whose voice had trailed off into incoherent babbling.
"Poison," said Raistlin, his eyes glancing at the golden needle shining in the
torchlight. Reaching out, Raistlin gently pushed on the door. The lock gave
and the door turned on its hinges, opening a crack.
Outside, they could hear shrieks and cries as the soldiers and slaves of
Neraka fled the dying Temple. The skies above resounded with the roars of
dragons. The Highlords battled among themselves to see who would come out on
top in this new world. Listening, Raistlin smiled to himself.
His thoughts were interrupted by a hand clutching his arm.
"Can you help him?" Caramon demanded.
Raistlin flicked a glance at the dying kender. "He is very far gone," the mage
said coldly. "It will sap some of my strength, and we are not out of this yet,
my brother."
"But you can save him?" Caramon persisted. "Are you powerful enough?"
"Of course," Raistlin replied, shrugging.
Tika stirred and sat up, clutching her aching head. "Caramon!" she cried
happily, then her gaze fell upon Tas. "Oh, no..." she whispered. Forgetting
her pain, she laid her bloodstained hand upon the kender's forehead. The
kender's eyes flared open at her touch, but he did not recognize her. He cried
out in agony.
Over his cries, they could hear the sound of clawed feet, running down the
corridor.
Raistlin looked at his brother. He saw him holding Tas in the big hands that
could be so gentle.
Thus he has held me, Raistlin thought. His eyes went to the kender. Vivid
memories of their younger days, of carefree adventuring with Flint . . . now
dead. Sturm, dead. Days of warm sunshine, of the green budding leaves on the
vallenwoods of Solace . . . Nights in the Inn of the Last Home... now blacked
and crumbling, the vallenwoods burned and destroyed.
"This is my final debt," Raistlin said. "Paid in full." Ignoring the look of
thankfulness that flooded Caramon's face, he instructed, "Lay him down. You
must deal with the draconians. This spell will take all my concentration. Do
not allow them to interrupt me."
Gently Caramon laid Tas down on the floor in front of Raistlin. The kender's
eyes had fixed in his head, his body was stiffening in its convulsive
struggles. His breath rattled in his throat.
"Remember, my brother," Raistlin said coldly as he reached into one of the
many secret pockets in his black robes, "you are dressed as a dragonarmy
officer. Be subtle, if possible."
"Right." Caramon gave Tas a final glance, then drew a deep breath. "Tika," he
said, "stay still. Pretend you're unconscious-"
Tika nodded and lay back down, obediently closing her eyes. Raistlin heard
Caramon clanking down the corridor, he heard his brother's loud, booming
voice, then the mage forgot his brother, forgot the approaching draconians,
forgot everything as he concentrated upon his spell.
Removing a luminous white pearl from an inner pocket, Raistlin held it firmly
in one hand while he took out a gray-green leaf from another. Prizing the
kender's clenched jaws open, Raistlin placed the leaf beneath Tasslehoff's
swollen tongue. The mage studied the pearl for a moment, calling to mind the
complex words of the spell, reciting them to himself mentally until he was
certain he had them in their proper order and knew the correct pronunciation
of each. He would have one chance, and one chance only. If he failed, not only
would the kender die, but he might very well die himself.
Placing the pearl upon his own chest, over his heart, Raistlin closed his eyes
and began to repeat the words of the spell, chanting the lines six times,
making the proper changes in inflection each time. With a thrill of ecstasy,
he felt the magic flow through his body, drawing out a part of his own life
force, capturing it within the pearl.
The first part of the spell complete, Raistlin held the pearl poised above the
kender's heart. Closing his eyes once more, he recited the complex spell
again, this time backwards. Slowly he crushed the pearl in his hand,
scattering the iridescent powder over Tasslehoff's rigid body. Raistlin's
chanting came to an end. Wearily he opened his eyes and watched in triumph as
the lines of pain faded from the kender's features, leaving them filled with
peace.
Tas's eyes flew open.
"Raistlin! I-plooey!" Tas spit out the green leaf. "Yick! What kind of nasty
thing was that? And how did it get into my mouth?" Tas sat up dizzily, then he
saw his pouches. "Hey! Who's been messing with my stuff?" Glancing up at the
mage accusingly, his eyes opened wide. "Raistlin! You have on Black Robes! How
wonderful! Can I touch them? Oh, all right. You needn't glare at me like that.
It's just that they look so soft. Say, does this mean you're truly bad now?
Can you do something evil for me, so I can watch? I know! I saw a wizard
summon a demon once. Could you do that? Just a small demon? You could send him
right back. No?" Tas sighed in disappointment. "Well- Hey, Caramon, what are
those draconians doing with you? And what's the matter with Tika? Oh, Caramon,
I-"
"Shut up!" Caramon roared. Scowling ferociously at the kender, he pointed at
Tas and Tika. "The mage and I were bringing these prisoners to our Highlord
when they turned on us. They're valuable slaves, the girl especially. And the
kender is a clever thief. We don't want to lose them. They'll fetch a high
price in the market in Sanction. Since the Dark Queen's gone, it's every man
for himself, eh?"
Caramon nudged one of the draconians in the ribs. The creature snarled in
agreement, its black reptilian eyes fastened greedily on Tika.
"Thief!" shouted Tas indignantly, his shrill voice ringing through the
corridor. "I'm-" He gulped, suddenly falling silent as a supposedly comatose
Tika gave him a swift poke in the ribs.
"I'll help the girl," Caramon said, glaring at the leering draconian. "You
keep an eye on the kender and, you over there, help the mage. His
spell-casting has left him weak."
Bowing with respect before Raistlin, one of the draconians helped him to his
feet. "You two"-Caramon was marshaling the rest of his troops-"go before us
and see that we don't have any trouble reaching the edge of town. Maybe you
can come with us to Sanction," Caramon continued, lifting Tika to her feet.
Shaking her head, she pretended to regain consciousness.
The draconians grinned in agreement as one of them grabbed hold of Tas by the
collar and shoved him toward the door.
"But my things!" wailed Tas, twisting around.
"Keep moving!" Caramon growled.
"Oh, well," the kender sighed, his eyes lingering fondly on his precious
possessions lying scattered on the bloodstained floor. "This probably isn't
the end of my adventuring. And-after all-empty pockets hold more, as my mother
used to say."
Stumbling along behind the two draconians, Tas looked up into the starry
heavens. "I'm sorry, Flint," he said softly, "Just wait for me a little
longer."

13
Kitiara.

As Tanis entered the antechamber, the change was so startling that for a
minute it was almost incomprehensible. One moment he had been fighting to
stand on his feet in the midst of a mob, the next he was in a cool dark room,
similar to the one he and Kitiara and her troops had waited in before entering
the Hall of Audience.
Glancing around swiftly, he saw he was alone. Although every instinct urged
him to rush out of this room in his frantic search, Tanis forced himself to
stop, catch his breath, and wipe away the blood gumming his eye shut. He tried
to remember what he had seen of the entry into the Temple. The antechambers
that formed a circle around the main Hall of Audience, themselves connected to
the front part of the temple by a series of winding corridors. Once, long ago
in Istar, these corridors must have been designed in some sort of logical
order. But the distortion of the Temple had twisted them into a meaningless
maze. Corridors ended abruptly when he expected them to continue, while those
that led nowhere seemingly went on forever.
The ground rocked beneath his feet as dust drifted down from the ceiling. A
painting fell from the wall with a crash. Tanis had no idea of where Laurana
might be found. He had seen her come in here, that was all.
She had been imprisoned in the Temple, but that was below ground. He wondered
if she had been at all cognizant of her surroundings when they brought her in,
if she had any idea how to get out. And then Tanis realized that he himself
had only a vague idea of where he was. Finding a torch still burning, he
grabbed it and flashed it about the room. A tapestry-covered door swung open,
hanging on a broken hinge. Peering through it, he saw it led into a dimly lit
corridor. Tanis caught his breath. He knew, now, how to find her! A breath of
air stirred in the hallway-fresh air, pungent with the odors of spring, cool
with the blessed peace of night- touched his left cheek. Laurana must have
felt that breath, she would guess that it must lead out of the Temple. Quickly
Tanis ran down the hallway, ignoring the pain in his head, forcing his weary
muscles to respond to his commands.
A group of draconians appeared suddenly in front of him, coming from another
room. Remembering he still wore the dragonarmy uniform, Tanis stopped them.
"The elfwoman!" he shouted. "She must not escape. Have you seen her?"
This group hadn't, apparently, by the tone of the hurried snarls. Nor had the
next group Tanis encountered. But two draconians wandering the halls in search
of loot had seen her, so they said. They pointed vaguely in the direction
Tanis was already heading. His spirits rose.
By now, the fighting within the Hall had ended. The Dragon Highlords who
survived had made good their escapes and were now among their own forces
stationed outside the Temple walls. Some fought. Some retreated, waiting to
see who came out on top. Two questions were on everyone's mind. The
first-would the dragons remain in the world or would they vanish with their
Queen as they had following the Second Dragon War?
And, second-if the dragons remained, who would be their master?
Tanis found himself pondering these questions confusedly as he ran through the
halls, sometimes taking wrong turns and cursing bitterly as he confronted a
solid wall and was forced to retrace his steps to where he could once again
feel the air upon his face.
But eventually he grew too tired to ponder anything. Exhaustion and pain were
taking their toll. His legs grew heavy, it was an effort to take a step. His
head throbbed, the cut over his eye began to bleed again. The ground shook
continually beneath his feet. Statues toppled from their bases, stones fell
from the ceiling, showering him with clouds of dust.
He began to lose hope. Even though he was certain he was traveling in the only
direction she could possibly have taken, the few draconians he passed now had
not seen her. What could have happened? Was she- No, he wouldn't think of
that. He kept going, conscious either of the fragrant breath of air on his
face or of smoke billowing past him.
The torches had started fires. The Temple was beginning to burn.
Then, while negotiating a narrow corridor and climbing over a pile of rubble,
Tanis heard a sound. He stopped, holding his breath. Yes, there it was
again-just ahead. Peering through the smoke and dust, he gripped his sword in
his hand. The last group of draconians he had met were drunk and eager to
kill. A lone human officer had seemed like fair game, until one of them
remembered having seen Tanis with the Dark Lady. But the next time he might
not be so lucky.
Before him, the corridor lay in ruins, part of the ceiling having caved in. It
was intensely dark-the torch he held provided the only light-and Tanis
wrestled with the need for light and the fear of being seen by it. Finally he
decided to risk keeping it burning. He would never find Laurana if he had to
wander around this place in the darkness.
He would have to trust to his disguise once again.
"Who goes there?" he roared out in a harsh voice, shining his torchlight
boldly into the ruined hallway.
He caught a glimpse of flashing armor and a figure running, but it ran away
from him-not toward him. Odd for a draconian . . . his weary brain seemed to
be stumbling along about three paces behind him. He could see the figure
plainly now, lithe and slender and running much too quickly... "Laurana!" he
shouted, then in elven, "Quisalas!" Cursing the broken columns and marble
blocks in his path, Tanis stumbled and ran and stumbled and fell and forced
his aching body to obey him until he caught up with her. Grasping her by the
arm, he dragged her to a stop, then could only hold onto her tightly as he
slumped against a wall.
Each breath he took was fiery pain. He was so dizzy he thought for a moment he
might pass out. But he grasped her with a deathlike grip, holding her with his
eyes as well as his
hand.
Now he knew why the draconians hadn't seen her. She had stripped off the
silver armor, covering it with draconian armor she had taken from a dead
warrior. For a moment she could only stare at Tanis. She had not recognized
him at first, and had nearly run him through with her sword. The only thing
that had stopped her was the elven word, quisalas, beloved. That- and the
intense look of anguish and suffering on his pale face. "Laurana," Tanis
gasped in a voice as shattered as Raistlin's had once been, "don't leave me.
Wait... listen to me, please!" With a twist of her arm, Laurana broke free of
his grip. But she did not leave him. She started to speak, but another shudder
of the building silenced her. As dust and debris poured down around them,
Tanis pulled Laurana close, shielding her. They clung to each other fearfully,
and then it was over. But they were left in darkness. Tanis had dropped the
torch. "We've got to get out of here," he said, his voice shaking. "Are you
injured?" Laurana asked coldly, trying to free herself from his grasp once
more. "If so, I can help you. If not, then I suggest we forego any further
farewells. Whatever-"
"Laurana," Tanis said softly, breathing heavily, "I don't ask you to
understand-I don't understand. I don't ask for forgiveness-I can't even
forgive myself. I could tell you that I love you, that I have always loved
you. But that wouldn't be true, for love must come from within one who loves
himself, and right now I can't bear to see my own reflection. All I can tell
you, Laurana, is that-"
"Shh" Laurana whispered, putting her hand over Tanis's mouth. "I heard
something."
For long moments they stood, pressed together in the darkness, listening. At
first they could hear nothing but the sound of their own breathing. They could
see nothing, not even each other, as close as they were. Then torchlight
flared, blinding them, and a voice spoke.
"Tell Laurana what, Tanis?" said Kitiara in a pleasant voice. "Go on."
A naked sword gleamed in her hand. Wet blood-both red and green-glistened on
the blade. Her face was white with stone dust, a trickle of blood ran down her
chin from a cut on her lip. Her eyes were shadowed with weariness, but her
smile was still as charming as ever. Sheathing her bloody sword, she wiped her
hands upon her tattered cloak, then ran them absently through her curly hair.
Tanis's eyes closed in exhaustion. His face seemed to age; he looked very
human. Pain and exhaustion, grief and guilt would forever leave their mark on
the eternal elven youthfulness. He could feel Laurana stiffen, her hand move
to her sword.
"Let her go, Kitiara," Tanis said quietly, gripping Laurana firmly. "Keep your
promise and I'll keep mine. Let me take her outside the walls. Then I'll come
back-"
"I really believe you would," Kitiara remarked, staring at him in amused
wonder. "Hasn't it occurred to you yet, Half-Elf, that I could kiss you and
kill you without drawing a deep breath in between? No, I don't suppose it has.
I might kill you right now, in fact, simply because I know it would be the
worst thing I could do to the elfwoman." She held the flaming torch near
Laurana. "There-look at her face!" Kitiara sneered. "What a weak and
debilitating thing love is!"
Kitiara's hand tousled her hair again. Shrugging, she glanced around. "But I
haven't time. Things are moving. Great things. The Dark Queen has fallen.
Another will rise to take her place. What about it, Tanis? I have already
begun to establish my authority over the other Dragon Highlords." Kitiara
patted her sword hilt. "Mine will be a vast empire. We could rule toge-"
She broke off abruptly, her gaze shifting down the corridor from which she had
just come. Although Tanis could neither see nor hear what had attracted her
attention, he felt a bone-numbing chill spread through the hallway. Laurana
gripped him suddenly, fear overwhelming her, and Tanis knew who approached
even before he saw the orange eyes flicker above the ghostly armor.
"Lord Soth," murmured Kitiara. "Make your decision quickly, Tanis."
"My decision was made a long time ago, Kitiara," Tanis said calmly. Stepping
in front of Laurana, he shielded her as best as he could with his own body.
"Lord Soth will have to kill me to reach her, Kit. And even though I know my
death will not stop him-or you-from killing her when I have fallen, with my
last breath, I will pray to Paladine to protect her soul. The gods owe me one.
Somehow I know that this-my final prayer- will be granted."
Behind him, Tanis felt Laurana lay her head against his back, he heard her sob
softly and his heart eased, for there was not fear in her sob, but only love
and compassion and grief for him.
Kitiara hesitated. They could see Lord Soth coming down the shattered
corridor, his orange eyes flickering pinpoints of light in the darkness. Then
she laid her bloodstained hand upon Tanis's arm. "Go!" she commanded harshly.
"Run quickly, back down the corridor. At the end is a door in the wall. You
can feel it. It will lead you down into the dungeons. From there you can
escape."
Tanis stared at her uncomprehendingly for a moment.
"Run!" Kit snapped, giving him a shove.
Tanis cast a glance at Lord Soth.
"A trap!" whispered Laurana.
"No," Tanis said, his eyes going back to Kit. "Not this time. Farewell,
Kitiara."
Kitiara's nails dug into his arm.
"Farewell, Half-EIven," she said in a soft, passionate voice, her eyes shining
brightly in the torchlight. "Remember, I do this for love of you. Now go!"
Flinging her torch from her, Kitiara vanished into the darkness as completely
as if she had been consumed by it.
Tanis blinked, blinded by the sudden blackness, and started to reach his hand
out for her. Then he withdrew it. Turning, his hand found Laurana's hand.
Together they stumbled through the debris, groping their way along the wall.
The chill fear that flowed from the death knight numbed their blood. Glancing
down the corridor, Tanis saw Lord Soth coming nearer and nearer, his eyes
seeming to stare straight at them. Frantically Tanis felt the stone wall, his
hands searching for the door. Then he felt the cold stone give way to wood.
Grasping the iron handle, he turned it. The door opened at his touch. Pulling
Laurana after him, the two plunged through the opening, the sudden flaring of
torches lighting the stairs nearly as blinding as the darkness had been above.
Behind him, Tanis heard Kitiara's voice, hailing Lord Soth. He wondered what
the death knight, having lost his prey, would do to her. The dream returned to
him vividly. Once again he saw Laurana falling . . . Kitiara falling . . . and
he stood helpless, unable to save either. Then the image vanished.
Laurana stood waiting for him on the stairway, the torchlight shining on her
golden hair. Hurriedly he slammed the door shut and ran down the stairs after
her.

"That is the elfwoman," said Lord Soth, his flaming eyes easily tracking the
two as they ran from him like frightened mice. "And the half-elf."
"Yes," said Kitiara without interest. Drawing her sword from its scabbard, she
began to wipe off the blood with the hem of her cloak.
"Shall I go after them?" Soth asked.
"No. We have more important matters to attend to now," Kitiara replied.
Glancing up at him, she smiled her crooked smile. "The elfwoman would never be
yours anyway, not even in death. The gods protect her."
Soth's flickering gaze turned to Kitiara. The pale lips curled in derision.
"The half-elven man remains your master still."
"No, I think not," Kitiara replied. Turning, she looked after Tanis as the
door shut behind him. "Sometimes, in the still watches of the night, when he
lies in bed beside her, Tanis will find himself thinking of me. He will
remember my last words, he will be touched by them. I have given them their
happiness. And she must live with the knowledge that I will live always in
Tanis's heart. What love they might find together, I have poisoned. My revenge
upon them both is complete. Now, have you brought what I sent you for?"
"I have. Dark Lady," Lord Soth replied. With a spoken word of magic, he
brought forth an object and held it out to her in his skeletal hand.
Reverently, he set it at her feet.
Kitiara caught her breath, her eyes gleamed in the darkness nearly as bright
as Lord Soth's. "Excellent! Return to Dargaard Keep. Gather the troops. We
will take control of the flying citadel Ariakas sent to Kalaman. Then we will
fall back, regroup, and wait."
The hideous visage of Lord Soth smiled as he gestured to the object that
glittered in his fleshless hand. "This is now rightfully yours. Those who
opposed you are either dead, as you commanded, or fled before I could reach
them."
"Their doom is simply postponed," Kitiara said, sheathing her sword. "You have
served me well, Lord Soth, and you will be rewarded. There will always be
elfmaidens in this world, I suppose."
"Those you command to die shall die. Those you allow to live," Soth's glance
flickered to the door "-shall live. Remember this-of all who serve you, Dark
Lady, I alone can offer you undying loyalty. This I do now, gladly. My
warriors and I will return to Dargaard Keep as you ask. There we will await
our summons."
Bowing to her, he took her hand in his skeletal grasp. "Fare-well, Kitiara,"
he said, then paused. "How does it feel, my dear, to know that you have
brought pleasure to the damned? You have made my dreary realm of death
interesting. Would that I had known you as living man!" The pallid visage
smiled. "But, my time is eternal. Perhaps I will wait for one who can share my
throne-"
Cold fingers caressed Kitiara's flesh. She shuddered convulsively, seeing
unending, sleepless nights yawn chasm-like before her. So vivid and terrifying
was the image that Kitiara's soul shriveled in fear as Lord Soth vanished into
the darkness.
She was by herself in the darkness and for a moment she was terrified. The
Temple shuddered around her. Kitiara shrank back against the wall, frightened
and alone. So alone! Then her foot touched something on the floor of the
Temple. Reaching down, her fingers closed around it thankfully. She lifted it
in her hands.
This was reality, hard and solid, she thought, breathing in relief.
No torchlight glittered on its golden surface or flared from its red-hued
jewels. Kitiara did not need the flare of torches to admire what she held.
For long moments she stood in the crumbling hallway, her fingers running over
the rough metal edges of the bloodstained Crown.

Tanis and Laurana ran down the spiral stone stairs to the dungeons below.
Pausing beside the jailor's desk, Tanis glanced at the body of the hobgoblin.
Laurana stared at him. "Come on," she urged, pointing to the east. Seeing him
hesitate, looking north, she shuddered. "You don't want to go down there! That
is where they . . . took me-" She turned away quickly, her face growing pale
as she heard cries and shouts coming from the prison cells.
A harried-looking draconian ran by. Probably a deserter, Tanis guessed, seeing
the creature snarl and cringe at the sight of an officer's armor.
"I was looking for Caramon," Tanis muttered. "They must have brought him
here."
"Caramon?" exclaimed Laurana in astonishment. "What-"
"He came with me," Tanis said. "So did Tika and Tas and ... Flint-" He
stopped, then shook his head. "Well, if they were here, they're gone now. Come
on."
Laurana's face flushed. She glanced back up the stone stairs, then at Tanis
again.
"Tanis-" she began, faltering. He placed his hand over her mouth.
"There will be time to talk later. Now we must find our way out!"
As if to emphasize his words, another tremor shook the Temple. This one was
sharper and stronger than the others, throwing Laurana up against a wall.
Tanis's face, white with fatigue and pain, grew even paler as he fought to
keep his footing.
A loud rumble and a shattering crash came from the northern corridor. All
sound in the prison cells ceased abruptly as a great cloud of dust and dirt
billowed out into the hallway.
Tanis and Laurana fled. Debris showered down around them as they ran east,
stumbling over bodies and piles of jagged broken stone.
Another tremor rocked the Temple. They could not stand. Falling on hands and
knees, they could do nothing but watch in terror as the corridor slowly
shifted and moved, bending and twisting like a snake.
Crawling under a fallen beam, they huddled together, watching the floor and
walls of the corridor leap and heave like waves upon the ocean. Above them,
they could hear strange sounds, as of huge stones grinding together-not
collapsing so much as shifting position. Then the tremor ceased. All was
quiet.
Shakily they got to their feet and began running again, fear driving their
aching bodies far beyond endurance. Every few minutes another tremor rocked
the Temple's foundations. But as often as Tanis expected the roof to cave in
upon their heads, it remained standing. So strange and terrifying were the
inexplicable sounds above them that they both might have welcomed the collapse
of the ceiling as a relief.
"Tanis!" cried Laurana suddenly. "Air! Night air!"
Wearily, summoning the last of their strength, the two made their way through
the winding corridor until they came to a door swinging open on its hinges.
There was a reddish blood stain on the floor and-
"Tas's pouches!" Tanis murmured. Kneeling down, he sorted through the kender's
treasures that lay scattered all over the floor. Then his heart sank.
Grieving, he shook his head.
Laurana knelt beside him, her hand closed over his.
"At least he was here, Tanis. He got this far. Maybe he escaped."
"He would never have left his treasures," Tanis said. Sinking down on the
shaking floor, the half-elf stared outside into Neraka. "Look," he said to
Laurana harshly, pointing. "This is the end, just as it was the end for the
kender. Look!" he demanded angrily, seeing her face settling into its stubborn
calm, seeing her refusing to admit defeat.
Laurana looked.
The cool breeze on her face seemed a mockery to her now, for it brought only
smells of smoke and blood and the anguished cries of the dying. Orange flames
lit the sky where wheeling dragons fought and died as their Highlords sought
to escape or strove for mastery. The night air blazed with the crackling of
lightning bolts and burned with flame. Draconians roamed the streets, killing
anything that moved, slaughtering each other in their frenzy.
"So evil turns upon itself," Laurana whispered, laying her head on Tanis's
shoulder, watching the terrible spectacle in awe.
"What was that?" he asked wearily.
"Something Elistan used to say," she replied. The Temple shook around them.
"Elistan!" Tanis laughed bitterly. "Where are his gods now? Watching from
their castles among the stars, enjoying the show? The Dark Queen is gone, the
Temple destroyed. And here we are-trapped. We wouldn't live three minutes out
there-"
Then his breath caught in his throat. Gently he pushed Laurana away from him
as he leaned over, his hand searching through Tasslehoff's scattered
treasures. Hurriedly he swept aside a shining piece of broken blue crystal, a
splinter of vallenwood, an emerald, a small white chicken feather, a withered
black rose, a dragon's tooth, and a piece of wood carved with dwarven skill to
resemble the kender. Among all of these was a golden object, sparkling in the
flaming light of the fire and destruction outside.
Picking it up, Tanis's eyes filled with tears. He held it tightly in his hand,
feeling the sharp edges bite into his flesh.
"What is it?" asked Laurana, not understanding, her voice choked with fear.
"Forgive me, Paladine," Tanis whispered. Drawing Laurana close beside him, he
held his hand out, opening his palm.
There in his hand lay a finely carved, delicate ring, made of golden, clinging
ivy leaves. And wrapped around the ring, still bound in his magical sleep, was
a golden dragon.

14
The end. For good or for evil.

"We're outside the city gates," Caramon muttered to his twin in a low voice,
his eyes on the draconians who were looking at him expectantly. "You stay with
Tika and Tas. I'm going back to find Tanis. I'll take this lot with me-"
"No, my brother," Raistlin said softly, his golden eyes glittering in
Lunitari's red light. "You cannot help Tanis. His fate is in his own hands."
The mage glanced up at the flaming, dragon-filled skies. "You are still in
danger yourself, as are those dependent upon you."
Tika stood wearily beside Caramon, her face drawn with pain. And though
Tasslehoff grinned as cheerfully as ever, his face was pale and there was an
expression of wistful sorrow in his eyes that had never been seen in the eyes
of a kender before. Caramon's face grew grim as he looked at them.
"Fine," he said. "But where do we go from here?"
Raising his arm, Raistlin pointed. The black robes shimmered, his hand stood
out starkly against the night sky, pale and thin, like bare bone.
"Upon that ridge shines a light-"
They all turned to look, even the draconians. Far across the barren plain
Caramon could see the dark shadow of a hill rising from the moonlit wasteland.
Upon its summit gleamed a pure white light, shining brightly, steadfast as a
star.
"One waits for you there," Raistlin said.
"Who? Tanis?" Caramon said eagerly.
Raistlin glanced at Tasslehoff. The kender's face had not turned from the
light, he gazed at it fixedly.
"Fizban..." he whispered.
"Yes," Raistlin replied. "And now I must go."
"What?" Caramon faltered. "But-come with me... us... you must! To see Fizban-"
"A meeting between us would not be pleasant." Raistlin shook his head, the
folds of his black hood moving around him.
"And what about them?" Caramon gestured at the draconians.
With a sigh, Raistlin faced the draconians. Lifting his hand, he spoke a few
strange words. The draconians backed up, expressions of fear and horror
twisting their reptilian faces. Caramon cried out, just as lightning sizzled
from Raistlin's fingertips. Screaming in agony, the draconians burst into
flame and fell, writhing, to the ground. Their bodies turned to stone as death
took them.
"You didn't need to do that, Raistlin," Tika said, her voice trembling. "They
would have left us alone."
"The war's over," Caramon added sternly.
"Is it?" Raistlin asked sarcastically, removing a small black bag from one of
his hidden pockets. "It is weak, sentimental twaddle like that, my brother,
which assures the war's continuation. These"-he pointed at the statue-like
bodies-"are not of Krynn. They were created using the blackest of black rites.
I know. I have witnessed their creation. They would not have 'left you alone.'
" His voice grew shrill, mimicking Tika's.
Caramon flushed. He tried to speak, but Raistlin coldly ignored him and
finally the big man fell silent, seeing his brother lost in his magic.
Once more Raistlin held the dragon orb in his hand. Closing his eyes, Raistlin
began to chant softly. Colors swirled within the crystal, then it began to
glow with a brilliant, radiant beam of light.
Raistlin opened his eyes, scanning the skies, waiting. He did not wait long.
Within moments, the moons and stars were obliterated by a gigantic shadow.
Tika fell back in alarm. Caramon put his arm around her comfortingly, though
his body trembled and his hand went to his sword.
"A dragon!" said Tasslehoff in awe. "But it's huge. I've never seen one so big
... or have I?" He blinked. "It seems familiar, somehow."
"You have," Raistlin said coolly, replacing the darkening crystal orb back in
his black pouch, "in the dream. This is Cyan Bloodbane, the dragon who
tormented poor Lorac, the Elven King."
"Why is he here?" Caramon gasped.
"He comes at my command," Raistlin replied. "He has come to take me home."
The dragon circled lower and lower, its gigantic wingspan spreading chilling
darkness. Even Tasslehoff (though he later refused to admit it) found himself
clinging to Caramon, shivering, as the monstrous green dragon settled to the
ground.
For a moment Cyan glanced at the pitiful group of humans huddled together. His
red eyes flared, his tongue flickered from between slavering jaws as he stared
at them with hatred. Then-constrained by a will more powerful than his own-
Cyan's gaze was wrenched away, coming to rest in resentment and anger upon the
black-robed mage.
At a gesture from Raistlin, the dragon's great head lowered until it rested in
the sand.
Leaning wearily upon the Staff of Magius, Raistlin walked over to Cyan
Bloodbane and climbed up the huge, snaking neck.
Caramon stared at the dragon, fighting the dragonfear that overwhelmed him.
Tika and Tas both clung to him, shivering in fright. Then, with a hoarse cry,
he thrust them both away and ran toward the great dragon.
"Wait! Raistlin!" Caramon cried raggedly. "I'll go with you!"
Cyan reared his great head in alarm, eyeing the human with a flaming gaze.
"Would you?" Raistlin asked softly, laying a soothing hand upon the dragon's
neck. "Would you go with me into darkness?"
Caramon hesitated, his lips grew dry, fear parched his throat. He could not
speak, but he nodded, twice, biting his lip in agony as he heard Tika sobbing
behind him.
Raistlin regarded him, his eyes golden pools within the deep blackness. "I
truly believe you would," the mage marveled, almost to himself. For a moment
Raistlin sat upon the dragon's back, pondering. Then he shook his head,
decisively.
"No, my brother, where I go, you cannot follow. Strong as you are, it would
lead you to your death. We are finally as the gods meant us to be, Caramon-two
whole people, and here our paths separate. You must learn to walk yours alone,
Caramon"-for an instant, a ghostly smile flickered across Raistlin's face,
illuminated by the light from the staff-"or with those who might choose to
walk with you. Farewell, my brother."
At a word from his master, Cyan Bloodbane spread his wings and soared into the
air. The gleam of light from the staff seemed like a tiny star amidst the deep
blackness of the dragon's wingspan. And then it, too, winked out, the darkness
swallowing it utterly.

"Here come those you have waited for," the old man said gently.
Tanis raised his head.
Into the light of the old man's fire came three people-a huge and powerful
warrior, dressed in dragonarmy armor, walking arm in arm with a curly-haired
young woman. Her face was pale with exhaustion and streaked with blood, and
there was a look of deep concern and sorrow in her eyes as she gazed up at the
man beside her. Finally, stumbling after them, so tired he could barely stand,
came a bedraggled kender in ragged blue leggings.
"Caramon!" Tanis rose to his feet.
The big man lifted his head. His face brightened. Opening his arms, he clasped
Tanis to his breast with a sob. Tika, standing apart, watched the reunion of
the two friends with tears in her eyes. Then she caught sight of movement near
the fire.
"Laurana?" she said hesitantly.
The elfwoman stepped forward into the firelight, her golden hair shining
brightly as the sun. Though dressed in bloodstained, battered armor, she had
the bearing, the regal look of the elven princess Tika had met in Qualinesti
so many months ago.
Self-consciously, Tika put her hand to her filthy hair, felt it matted with
blood. Her white, puffy-sleeved barmaid's blouse hung from her in rags, barely
decent; her mismatched armor was all that held it together in places.
Unbecoming scars marred the smooth flesh of her shapely legs, and there was
far too much shapely leg visible.
Laurana smiled, and then Tika smiled. It didn't matter. Coming to her swiftly,
Laurana put her arms around her, and Tika held her close.
All alone, the kender stood for a moment on the edge of the circle of
firelight, his eyes on the old man who stood near it. Behind the old man, a
great golden dragon slept sprawled out upon the ridge, his flanks pulsing with
his snores. The old man beckoned Tas to come closer.
Heaving a sigh that seemed to come from the toes of his shoes, Tasslehoff
bowed his head. Dragging his feet, he walked slowly over to stand before the
old man.
"What's my name?" the old man asked, reaching out his hand to touch the
kender's topknot of hair.
"It's not Fizban," Tas said miserably, refusing to look at him.
The old man smiled, stroking the topknot. Then he drew Tas near him, but the
kender held back, his small body rigid. "Up until now, it wasn't," the old man
said softly.
"Then what is it?" Tas mumbled, his face averted.
"I have many names," the old man replied. "Among the elves I am Eli. The
dwarves call me Thak. Among the humans I am known as Skyblade. But my favorite
has always been that by which I am known among the Knights of Solamnia-Draco
Paladin"
"I knew it!" Tas groaned, flinging himself to the ground. "A god! I've lost
everyone! Everyone!" He began to weep bitterly.
The old man regarded him fondly for a moment, even brushing a gnarled hand
across his own moist eyes. Then he knelt down beside the kender and put his
arm around him comfortingly. "Look, my boy," he said, putting his finger
beneath Tas's chin and turning his eyes to heaven, "do you see the red star
that shines above us? Do you know to what god that star is sacred?"
"Reorx," Tas said in a small voice, choking on his tears.
"It is red like the fires of his forge," the old man said, gazing at it. "It
is red like the sparks that fly from his hammer as it shapes the molten world
resting on his anvil. Beside the forge of Reorx is a tree of surpassing
beauty, the like of which no living being has ever seen. Beneath that tree
sits a grumbling old dwarf, relaxing after many labors. A mug of cold ale
stands beside him, the fire of the forge is warm upon his bones. He spends all
day lounging beneath the tree, carving and shaping the wood he loves. And
every day someone who comes past that beautiful tree starts to sit down beside
him.
"Looking at them in disgust, the dwarf glowers at them so sternly that they
quickly get to their feet again.
" 'This place is saved,' the dwarf grumbles. There's a lame-brained doorknob
of a kender off adventuring somewhere, getting himself and those unfortunate
enough to be with him into no end of trouble. Mark my words. One day he'll
show up here and he'll admire my tree and he'll say, "Flint, I'm tired. I
think I'll rest awhile here with you." Then he'll sit down and he'll say,
"Flint, have you heard about my latest adventure? Well, there was this
black-robed wizard and his brother and me and we went on a journey through
time and the most wonderful things happened-" and I'll have to listen to some
wild tale-' and so he grumbles on. Those who would sit beneath the tree hide
their smiles and leave him in peace."
'Then... he's not lonely?" Tas asked, wiping his hand across his eyes.
"No, child. He is patient. He knows you have much yet to do in your life. He
will wait. Besides he's already heard all your stories. You're going to have
to come up with some new ones."
"He hasn't heard this one yet," Tas said in dawning excitement. "Oh, Fizban,
it was wonderful! I nearly died-again. And I opened my eyes and there was
Raistlin in Black Robes!" Tas shivered in delight. "He looked so-well-evil!
But he saved my life! And-oh!" He stopped, horrified, then hung his head. "I'm
sorry. I forgot. I guess I shouldn't call you Fizban anymore."
Standing up, the old man patted him gently. "Call me Fizban. From now on,
among the kender, that shall be my name." The old man's voice grew wistful.
"To tell the truth, I've grown rather fond of it."
The old man walked over to Tanis and Caramon, and stood near them for a
moment, eavesdropping on their conversation.
"He's gone, Tanis," Caramon said sadly. "I don't know where. I don't
understand. He's still frail, but he isn't weak. That horrible cough is gone.
His voice is his own, yet different. He's-"
"Fistandantilus," the old man said.
Both Tanis and Caramon turned. Seeing the old man, they both bowed reverently.
"Oh, stop that!" Fizban snapped. "Can't abide all that bowing. You're both
hypocrites anyway. I've heard what you said about me behind my back-" Tanis
and Caramon both flushed guiltily. "Never mind." Fizban smiled. "You believed
what I wanted you to believe. Now, about your brother. You are right. He is
himself and he is not. As was foretold, he is the master of both present and
past."
"I don't understand." Caramon shook his head. "Did the dragon orb do this to
him? If so, perhaps it could be broken or-"
"Nothing did this to him" Fizban said, regarding Caramon sternly. "Your
brother chose this fate himself."
"I don't believe it! How? Who is this Fistan-whatever? I want answers-"
"The answers you seek are not mine to give," Fizban said. His voice was mild
still, but there was a hint of steel in his tone that brought Caramon up
short. "Beware of those answers, young man," Fizban added softly. "Beware
still more of your questions!" Caramon was silent for long moments, staring
into the sky after the green dragon, though it had long since disappeared.
"What will become of him now?" he asked finally.
"I do not know," Fizban answered. "He makes his own fate, as do you. But I do
know this, Caramon. You must let him go." The old man's eyes went to Tika, who
had come to stand beside them. "Raistlin was right when he said your paths had
split. Go forward into your new life in peace."
Tika smiled up at Caramon and nestled close. He hugged her, kissing her red
curls. But even as he returned her smile and tousled her hair, his gaze
strayed to the night sky, where-above Neraka-the dragons still fought their
flaming battles for control of the crumbling empire.
"So this is the end," Tanis said. "Good has triumphed."
"Good? Triumph?" Fizban repeated, turning to stare at the half-elf shrewdly.
"Not so, Half-Elven. The balance is restored. The evil dragons will not be
banished. They remain here, as do the good dragons. Once again the pendulum
swings freely."
"All this suffering, just for that?" Laurana asked, coming to stand beside
Tanis. "Why shouldn't good win, drive the darkness away forever?"
"Haven't you learned anything, young lady?" Fizban scolded, shaking a bony
finger at her. "There was a time when good held sway. Do you know when that
was? Right before the Cataclysm!"
"Yes"-he continued, seeing their astonishment-"the Kingpriest of Istar was a
good man. Does that surprise you? It shouldn't, because both of you have seen
what goodness like that can do. You've seen it in the elves, the ancient
embodiment of good! It breeds intolerance, rigidity, a belief that because I
am right, those who don't believe as I do are wrong.
"We gods saw the danger this complacency was bringing upon the world. We saw
that much good was being destroyed, simply because it wasn't understood. And
we saw the Queen of Darkness, lying in wait, biding her time, for this could
not last, of course. The overweighted scales must tip and fall, and then she
would return. Darkness would descend upon the world very fast.
"And so-the Cataclysm. We grieved for the innocent. We grieved for the guilty.
But the world had to be prepared, or the darkness that fell might never have
been lifted." Fizban saw Tasslehoff yawn. "But enough lectures. I've got to
go. Things to do. Busy night ahead." Turning away abruptly, he tottered toward
the snoring golden dragon.
"Wait!" Tanis said suddenly. "Fizban-er-Paladine, were you ever in the Inn of
the Last Home, in Solace?"
"An inn? In Solace?" The old man paused, stroking his beard. "An inn ... there
are so many. But I seem to recall spicy potatoes... That's it!" The old man
peered around at Tanis, his eyes glinting. "I used to tell stories there, to
the children. Quite an exciting place, that inn. I remember one night-a
beautiful young woman came in. A barbarian she was, with golden hair. Sang a
song about a blue crystal staff that touched off a riot."
"That was you, shouting for the guards!" Tanis exclaimed. "You got us into
this!"
"I set the stage, lad," Fizban said cunningly. "I didn't give you a script.
The dialogue has been all yours." Glancing at Laurana, then back to Tanis, he
shook his head. "Must say I could have improved it a bit here and there, but
then-never mind." Turning away once more, he began yelling at the dragon.
"Wakeup, you lazy, flea-bitten beast!"
"Flea-bitten!" Pyrite's eyes flared open. "Why, you decrepit old mage! You
couldn't turn water into ice in the dead of winter!"
"Oh, can't I?" Fizban shouted in a towering rage, poking at the dragon with
his staff. "Well, I'll show you." Fishing out a battered spellbook, he began
flipping pages. "Fireball... Fireball ... I know it's in here somewhere."
Absent-mindedly, still muttering, the old mage climbed up onto the dragon's
back.
"Are you quite ready?" the ancient dragon asked in icy tones, then-without
waiting for an answer-spread his creaking wings. Flapping them painfully to
ease the stiffness, he prepared to take off.
"Wait! My hat!" Fizban cried wildly.
Too late. Wings beating furiously, the dragon rose unsteadily into the air.
After wobbling, hanging precariously over the edge of the cliff, Pyrite caught
the night breeze and soared into the night sky.
"Stop! You crazed-"
"Fizban!" Tas cried.
"My hat!" wailed the mage.
"Fizban!" Tas shouted again. "It's-"
But the two had flown out of hearing. Soon they were nothing more than
dwindling sparks of gold, the dragon's scales glittering in Solinari's light.
"It's on your head," the kender murmured with a sigh.
The companions watched in silence, then turned away.
"Give me a hand with this, will you, Caramon?" Tanis asked. Unbuckling the
dragonarmor, he sent it spinning, piece by piece, over the edge of the ridge.
"What about yours?"
"I think I'll keep mine a while longer. We've still a long journey ahead of
us, and the way will be difficult and dangerous." Caramon waved a hand toward
the flaming city. "Raistlin was right. The dragonmen won't stop their evil
just because their Queen is gone." "Where will you go?" Tanis asked, breathing
deeply. The night air was soft and warm, fragrant with the promise of new
growth. Thankful to be rid of the hated armor, he sat down wearily beneath a
grove of trees that stood upon the ridge overlooking the Temple. Laurana came
to sit near him, but not beside him. Her knees were drawn up beneath her chin,
her eyes thoughtful as she gazed out over the plains.
"Tika and I have been talking about that," Caramon said, the two of them
sitting down beside Tanis. He and Tika glanced at s each other, neither
seeming willing to speak. After a moment, Caramon cleared his throat. "We're
going back to Solace, Tanis. And I-I guess this means we'll be splitting up
since"- he paused, unable to continue.
"We know you'll be returning to Kalaman," Tika added softly, with a glance at
Laurana. "We talked of going with you. After all, there's that big citadel
floating around still, plus all these renegade dragonmen. And we'd like to see
Riverwind and Goldmoon and Gilthanas again. But-"
"I want to go home, Tanis," Caramon said heavily. "I know it's not going to be
easy going back, seeing Solace burned, destroyed," he added, forestalling
Tanis's objections, "but I've, thought about Alhana and the elves, what they
have to go back to in Silvanesti. I'm thankful my home isn't like that-a
twisted nightmare. They'll need me in Solace, Tanis, to help rebuild.
They'll need my strength. I-I'm used to... being needed...." Tika laid her
cheek on his arm, he gently tousled her hair.
Tanis nodded in understanding. He would like to see Solace again, but it
wasn't home. Not any more. Not without Flint and Sturm and . . . and others.
"What about you, Tas?" Tanis asked the kender with a smile as he came trudging
up to the group, lugging a waterskin he had filled at a nearby creek. "Will
you come back to Kalaman with us?" Tas flushed. "No, Tanis," he said
uncomfortably. "You see, since I'm this close-I thought I'd pay a visit to my
homeland.
We killed a Dragon Highlord, Tanis"-Tas lifted his chin proudly-"all by
ourselves. People will treat us with respect now. Our leader, Kronin, will
most likely become a hero in Krynnish lore."
Tanis scratched his beard to hide his smile, refraining from telling Tas that
the Highlord the kenders had killed had been the bloated, cowardly Fewmaster
Toede.
"I think one kender will become a hero," Laurana said seriously. "He will be
the kender who broke the dragon orb, the kender who fought at the siege of the
High Clerist's Tower, the kender who captured Bakaris, the kender who risked
everything to rescue a friend from the Queen of Darkness."
"Who's that?" Tas asked eagerly, then, "Oh!" Suddenly realizing who Laurana
meant, Tas flushed pink to the tips of his ears and sat down with a thud,
quite overcome.
Caramon and Tika settled back against a tree trunk, both faces-for the
moment-were filled with peace and tranquility. Tanis, watching them, envied
them, wondering if such peace would ever be his. He turned to Laurana, who was
sitting straight now, gazing beyond into the flaming sky, her thoughts far
away.
"Laurana," Tanis said unsteadily, his voice faltering as her beautiful face
turned to his, "Laurana, you gave this to me once"-he held the golden ring in
his palm-"before either of us knew what true love or commitment meant. It now
means a great deal to me, Laurana. In the dream, this ring brought me back
from the darkness of the nightmare, just as your love saved me from the
darkness in my own soul." He paused, feeling a sharp pang of regret even as he
talked. "I'd like to keep it, Laurana, if you still want me to have it. And I
would like to give you one to wear, to match it."
Laurana stared at the ring long moments without speaking, then she lifted it
from Tanis's palm and-with a sudden motion-threw it over the ridge. Tanis
gasped, half-starting to his feet. The ring flashed in Lunitari's red light,
then it vanished into the darkness.
"I guess that's my answer," Tanis said. "I can't blame you."
Laurana turned back to him, her face calm. "When I gave you that ring, Tanis,
it was the first love of an undisciplined heart. You were right to return it
to me, I see that now. I had to grow up, to learn what real love was. I have
been through flame and darkness, Tanis. I have killed dragons. I have wept
over the body of one I loved." She sighed. "I was a leader. I had
responsibilities. Flint told me that. But I threw it all away, I fell into
Kitiara's trap. I realized-too late-how shallow my love really was.
Riverwind's and Goldmoon's steadfast love brought hope to the world. Our petty
love came near to destroying it."
"Laurana," Tanis began, his heart aching.
Her hand closed over his.
"Hush, just a moment more," she whispered. "I love you, Tanis. I love you now
because I understand you. I love you for the light and the darkness within
you. That is why I threw the ring away. Perhaps someday our love will be a
foundation strong enough to build upon. Perhaps someday I will give you
another ring and I will accept yours. But it will not be a ring of ivy leaves,
Tanis."
"No," he said, smiling. Reaching out, he put his hand on her shoulder, to draw
her near. Shaking her head, she started to resist. "It will be a ring made
half of gold and half of steel." Tanis clasped her more firmly.
Laurana looked into his eyes, then she smiled and yielded to him, sinking back
to rest beside him, her head on his shoulder.
"Perhaps I'll shave," said Tanis, scratching his beard.
"Don't," murmured Laurana, drawing Tanis's cloak around her shoulders. "I've
gotten used to it."
All that night the companions kept watch together beneath the trees, waiting
for the dawn. Weary and wounded, they could not sleep, they knew the danger
had not ended.
From their vantage point, they could see bands of draconians fleeing the
Temple confines. Freed from their leaders, the draconians would soon turn to
robbery and murder to ensure their own survival. There were Dragon Highlords
still. Though no one mentioned her name, the companions each knew one had
almost certainly managed to survive the chaos boiling around the Temple. And
perhaps there would be other evils to contend with, evils more powerful and
terrifying than the friends dared imagine.
But for now there were a few moments of peace, and they were loath to end
them. For with the dawn would come farewells.
No one spoke, not even Tasslehoff. There was no need for words between them.
All had been said or was waiting to be said. They would not spoil what went
before, nor hurry what was to come. They asked Time to stop for a little while
to let them rest. And, perhaps, it did.
Just before dawn, when only a hint of the sun's coming shone pale in the
eastern sky, the Temple of Takhisis, Queen of Darkness, exploded. The ground
shivered with the blast. The light was brilliant, blinding, like the birth of
a new sun.
Their eyes dazzled by the flaring light, they could not see clearly. But they
had the impression that the sparkling shards of the Temple were rising into
the sky, being swept upward by a vast heavenly whirlwind. Brighter and
brighter the shards gleamed as they hurtled into the starry darkness, until
they shone as radiantly as the stars themselves.
And then they were stars. One by one, each piece of the shattered Temple took
its proper place in the sky, filling the two black voids Raistlin had seen
last autumn, when he looked up from the boat in Crystalmir Lake.
Once again, the constellations glittered in the sky.
Once again, the Valiant Warrior-Paladine-the Platinum Dragon-took his place in
one half of the night sky while opposite him appeared the Queen of Darkness,
Takhisis, the Five-Headed, Many-Colored Dragon. And so they resumed their
endless wheeling, one always watchful of the other, as they revolved eternally
around Gilean, God of Neutrality, the Scales of Balance.

15
The Homecoming.
There were none to welcome him as he entered the city. He came in the dead of
a still, black night; the only moon in the sky being one his eyes alone could
see. He had sent away the green dragon, to await his commands. He did not pass
through the city gates; no guard witnessed his arrival.
He had no need to come through the gates. Boundaries meant for ordinary
mortals no longer concerned him. Unseen, unknown, he walked the silent,
sleeping streets.
And yet, there was one who was aware of his presence. Inside the great
library, Astinus-intent as ever upon his work-stopped writing and lifted his
head. His pen remained poised for an instant over the paper, then-with a
shrug-he resumed work on his chronicles once more.
The man walked the dark streets rapidly, leaning upon a staff that was
decorated at the top with a crystal ball clutched in the golden, disembodied
claw of a dragon. The crystal was dark. He needed no light to brighten the
way. He knew where he was going. He had walked it in his mind for long
centuries. Black robes rustled softly around his ankles as he strode forward;
his golden eyes, gleaming from the depths of his black hood, seemed the only
sparks of light in the slumbering city.
He did not stop when he reached the center of town. He did not even glance at
the abandoned buildings with their dark, windows gaping like the eyesockets in
a skull. His steps did not falter as he passed among the chill shadows of the
tall oak trees, though these shadows alone had been enough to terrify a
kender. The fleshless guardian hands that reached out to grasp him fell to
dust at his feet, and he trod upon them without care.
The tall Tower came in sight, black against the black sky like a window cut
into darkness. And here, finally, the black-robed man came to a halt. Standing
before the gates, he looked up at the Tower; his eyes taking in everything,
coolly appraising the crumbling minarets and the polished marble that
glistened in the cold, piercing light of the stars. He nodded slowly, in
satisfaction.
The golden eyes lowered their gaze to the gates of the Tower, to the horrible
fluttering robes that hung from those gates.
No ordinary mortal could have stood before those terrible, shrouded gates
without going mad from the nameless terror. No ordinary mortal could have
walked unscathed through the guardian oaks.
But Raistlin stood there. He stood there calmly, without fear. Lifting his
thin hand, he grasped hold of the shredded black robes still stained with the
blood of their wearer, and tore them from the gates.
A chill penetrating wail of outrage screamed up from the depths of the Abyss.
So loud and horrifying was it that all the citizens of Palanthas woke
shuddering from even the deepest sleep and lay in their beds, paralyzed by
fear, waiting for the end of the world. The guards on the city walls could
move neither hand nor foot. Shutting their eyes, they cowered in shadows,
awaiting death. Babies whimpered in fear, dogs cringed and slunk beneath beds,
cats' eyes gleamed.
The shriek sounded again, and a pale hand reached out from the Tower gates. A
ghastly face, twisted in fury, floated in the dank air.
Raistlin did not move.
The hand drew near, the face promised him the tortures of the Abyss, where he
would be dragged for his great folly in daring the curse of the Tower. The
skeletal hand touched Raistlin's heart. Then, trembling, it halted.
"Know this," said Raistlin calmly, looking up at the Tower, pitching his voice
so that it could be heard by those within. "I am the master of past and
present! My coming was foretold. For me, the gates will open."
The skeletal hand shrank back and, with a slow sweeping motion of invitation,
parted the darkness. The gates swung open upon silent hinges.
Raistlin passed through them without a glance at the hand or the pale visage
that was lowered in reverence. As he entered, all the black and shapeless,
dark and shadowy things dwelling within the Tower bowed in homage.
Then Raistlin stopped and looked around him.
"I am home," he said.
 Peace stole over Palanthas, sleep soothed away fear.
A dream, the people murmured. Turning over in their beds, they drifted back
into slumber, blessed by the darkness, which brings rest before the dawn.

Raistlin's Farewell
Caramon, the Gods have tricked the world
In absences, in gifts, and all of us
Are housed within their cruelties. The wit
That was our heritage, they lodged in me,
Enough to see all differences: the light
In Tika's eye when she looks elsewhere,
The tremble in Laurana's voice when she
Speaks to Tanis, and the graceful sweep
Of Goldmoon's hair at Riverwind's approach.
They look at me, and even with your mind
I could discern the difference. Here I sit,
A body frail as bird bones.

In return
The Gods teach us compassion, teach us mercy
That compensation. Sometimes they succeed,
For I have felt the hot spit of injustice
Turn through those too weak to fight their brothers
For sustenance or love, and in that feeling
The pain lulled and diminished to a glow,
I pitied as you pitied me, and in that
Rose above the weakest of the litter.

You, my brother, in your thoughtless grace,
That special world in which the sword arm spins
The wild arm of ambition and the eye
Gives flawless guidance to the flawless hand,
You cannot follow me, cannot observe
The landscape of cracked mirrors in the soul,
The aching hollowness in sleight of hand.

And yet you love me, simple as the rush
And balance of our blindly mingled blood,
Or as a hot sword aching through the snow.
It is the mutual need that puzzles you,
The deep complexity lodged in the veins.
Wild in the dance of battle, when you stand,
A shield before your brother, it is then
Your nourishment arises from the heart
Of all my weakness.

When I am gone,
Where will you find the fullness of your blood?
Backed in the heart's loud tunnels?

I have heard
The Queen's soft lullaby, Her serenade
And call to battle mingling in the night;
This music calls me to my quiet throne
Deep in Her senseless kingdom.

Dragonlords
Thought to bring the darkness into light,
Corrupt it with the mornings and the moons -
In balance is all purity destroyed,
But in voluptuous darkness lies the truth,
The final, graceful dance.

But not for you.
You cannot follow me into the night,
Into the maze of sweetness. For you stand
Cradled by the sun, in solid lands,
Expecting nothing, having lost your way
Before the road became unspeakable

It is beyond explaining, and the words
Will make you stumble. Tanis is your friend,
My little orphan, and he will explain
Those things he glimpsed in the shadow's path,
For he knew Kitiara and the shine
Of the dark moon on her darkest hair,
And yet he cannot threaten, for the night
Breathes in a moist wind upon my waiting face.
