He was a strongly built human man with dark skin and hair.
Abdel was an imposing figure standing almost 7 feet (2.1 meters) in height. He had black hair and a severe look to his eyes.
His divine heritage granted him a more youthful look and physique than was had by most 130-year-old humans.
He was immensely fat, with a grim face and huge curling moustache. He commonly wore robes, a blue turban, and many rings.
An asura resembled a human with marble-pale skin and huge red wings, which were made of flame. Their feet were armed with eagle claws and they wore loose togas.
Sujah wore voluminous, white desert robes, crowned with a white turban. He wore leather riding boots, and carried a curved longsword in a scabbard attached to his waist. He had tan skin and a short, black goatee.
Adimarchus had two forms, and could shift between them at will. The first one was reminiscent of his past self as a planetar: a beautiful androgynous angel with pale purple skin, a pair of metallic golden wings, and black eyes. While similar in stature, his second form had ash-black skin and white eyes, and the wings were replaced by four shadowy tentacles ending in lamprey's maws. In both forms, Adimarchus' right eye burned with a smoking flame, a sign bestowed on any creature destined to rule Occipitus.
Adnan's desire for protection left his body ailing after having permanently cast detect invisibility, protection from normal missiles, and avert evil eye upon himself. Adnan was gaunt and frail. He often wore a dark grey aba. On the rare occasion when he smiled, he revealed missing teeth and blood-red gums. Adnan rarely raised his voice above a whisper.
Adnan's physical weakness masked the awesome magical power he wielded.
Adrianna was an exotic and beautiful female moon elf. She had blue-green hair.
Aelric was a young man with long black hair. He wore red tunic or red armor with wolf and bat designs.
Unlike other avariel, Aerie had no wings. They were forcibly removed from her body in order to save her life after they became diseased.

“
The twisted visage of a long-dead elven maiden, her skin withered and stretched along her hollow face and her eyes bereft of color or any spark of life.

”
— Excerpt from The Halfling's Gem

The banshee looked like she did in life: an elven maiden clad in a flowing gown. She was dead, though, her skin shriveled, and eyes staring pale and blind, but those eyes, while empty, saw all things.
Personality
Never powerless, Agatha still retained the wizardry skills she had in life. She was seen throughout the Dessarin river region, but she avoided interactions with others, especially when she believed a powerful wizard was in the area. Agatha viewed the townsfolk of Conyberry as allies and would use her powers to bring food and protection to the community during harsh winters, including killing orcs or raiders who ventured too near the village.
Agatha was still susceptible to flattery, taking gifts to coerce her vanity, in exchange for knowledge of the surrounding area, which the banshee knew a lot of.
Aglaraerose had a unique patch of rough scales on her belly.
He dressed in leather armor, underneath which he wore a purple tunic, purple pants, and brown riding boots. Agrorn had fair skin and long, brown hair. He could be seen riding a white horse.
Akabar was a tall dusky-skinned man of 6 feet and 2 inches (1.9 meters) with blue eyes and curly brown hair, often banded with golden cords. He wore his short mustache and squarely-shaped long beard neatly trimmed like many other Turmish traders.
Akabar was very thin, hiding his body under billowing red rodes he often wore. The rich crimson robes were accentuated with thin white stripes and topped with his red-trimmed ivory white cloak.
As per Turmish tradition, the mage had three blue dots tattooed on his forehead indicating him as being a scholar of religion, reading, magic, and his left earlobe was decorated with a sapphire earing, indicating him as a married man.
He had red hair.
The ancient elf was blind and heavily wrinkled. He had long white hair on the back and sides of his head, and wore a thick dark blue robe.
Lady Alathene was very old but maintained her stunning good looks by magical means. She always dressed in the formal style with long, elaborately decorated gowns, corsets that accentuated her bust, and veils on her head. She had an aristocratic bearing and manner of speaking that gave the impression of royalty. When interacting with her staff or clients of the Blushing Mermaid, she usually donned the same black metal mask and face veil as her employees wore.
Alby was a reasonable and determined man capable of sensible compromise. He did whatever he had to in order to maintain and protect his temple.
Aldurghen was rarely seen in Waterdeep without his homemade spiked chainmail that hung to his knees. It was black and deceptively shabby, with armor plates affixed to it like patches. His black beard was always grimy from working in the mine and it surpassed his armor by hanging all the way to his ankles. When he removed his (black) helm, his face showed the same dark sheen as his armor. This was attributed to the thaolet oil used to cleanse and remove rust from armor and tools, but it was unknown if his skin was permanently stained or he just never washed his face. The overall hue of his appearance as he strode the streets of Waterdeep earned him the nickname "the Black Dwarf".
Due to his position, he held great sway and influence over the people of his home city.
Aleena was a tall and serious woman.
Alias was a beautiful unaging young woman. She was 5 feet and 10 inches (1.8 meters) tall and weighed 140 pounds (64 kilograms), and had reddish-blond hair and striking green eyes.
The most distinct feature of Alias was the legacy of her magical creation. That feature was the magical tattoo that covered her right arm, wrist to elbow. The elaborate azure tattoo shimmered and glowed, and upon closer examination was a collection of tiny glyphs. The tattoo, the azure bonds, were swirling patterns of thorns and waves, with a beautiful azure blooming rose.
Before the rose, however, the tattoo consisted of runes that represented her masters and creators: an insect-like squiggle (Cassana), three interlocking rings (Zrie Prakis), an open palm with a fanged mouth (Moander), a flaming dagger (Fire Knives), concentric circles (Phalse), and lastly, there was an empty spot. Upon the masters' deaths, the runes disappeared, and the empty spot blossomed into an image of a rose, that represented Alias' "father", Finder Wyvernspur.
Aliisza appeared as a disarmingly beautiful adult human female with lustrous black curly hair, sea green eyes, and sharply defined eyebrows. Her true form bore her heritage by the pair of black demon wings mounted on her upper back. She often carried means to take different shapes to hide her wings and thus not reveal her true self unless necessary.
Aliisza's natural form had sharp fangs, which she usually disguised to as to appear more humanlike.
She often wore a tight black leather corset. She also owned a red dress, which she wore with a tight corselet with black lace.
Alisanda inherited dark Tabaxi skin from her mother and had green eyes of her father. She was as tall as many other men, including Artus Cimber and had slender hands. She wore her thick black hair in dozens of tight braids. Eye green eyes exuded calm and self-confidence. Sanda was in excellent physical shape, able to move swiftly, leaving others behind, gasping for air.
She wore a purple tabard emblazoned with a white dragon sigil.
Allamon was thin, with a pointed black goatee and dark skin, and wore blue robes and turban.
Alobal manifested himself as a comely male elf with sparkling golden eyes.
In her human form, Alrue appeared as a tall, slender young woman with the dusky complexion of those native to Calimshan. She had long, dark hair and typically wore earrings, bracelets, and a necklace.
In 1297 DR, Alton marred his face with acid, making his features appear unrecognizable.
At about the age of 19, Alusair was short and slender, with dark eyes. The Neverwintan diplomat Aszundar Zel described her as "impish" and "winsomely beautiful" after a court visit in 1354 DR.
Aged around 22, Alusair was of medium height at 5 feet 6 inches (1.67 meters), and she weighed 150 pounds (68 kilograms). She had blond hair, and some reported her eyes as blue.
By the age of 25, after four years of hard adventuring, Alusair had changed noticeably, acquiring an athletic build at the same height. Now she possessed a mature beauty with wrinkles at the corners of her eyes. She had deep oak-brown eyes and black eyebrows, yet her hair was long and golden, though this later turned ash-blond.
Alyana's appearance remained unknown and it was said that even the Grand Caliph himself had never seen her without her veil. She usually wore blue robes with rich brocade from the finest Umaran fabrics. While in public her face was hidden behind a veil, which only revealed her steel gray eyes.
He resembled a handsome elf with wings, golden skin and long blond hair, naked but for a well-placed sash.
She appeared as a beautiful human woman with, of course, a radiant smile.
Amaunator's avatar, whose skin shed golden light, looked like a lanky, silver-white haired, and short man with a white tenday growth of beard clad in a long, flowing, black or purple gown with silver or gold trims, the uniform of a magistrate. He always equipped himself with two tools: a scepter and a legal tome in either hand. The former was the scepter of the eternal sun, which doubled as his melee-weapon.
Amelior was a 6-ft (1.8-m) tall, stocky man with a grey beard. Although he wore spectacles, he also wore a variety of eye patches over the other, each patch adorned in fanciful colors or decorations. His garb was generally that of a common craftsman.
While she took on the form of a fair, demure woman of plain appearance and steady disposition, Amelyssan viewed herself as so much more. When she seized the power of Bhaal's throne, Amelyssan emerged as a massive wa
Amerigo had tan skin and a thin, black beard. He wore a heavy leather cape over his clothes, and a plumed Amnian helmet atop his head.
Amethyst Trueblood disliked and mistrusted all elves after an elven thief once lifted her coin purse, armor, weapons, and even her holy symbol, leaving her defenseless in face of danger. Nevertheless Amethyst continued praying for the trickster elves' salvation.
  Ammon Jerro unhooded. 
Bald and aged, Ammon Jerro was nonetheless a physically impressive man made all the more powerful-seeming by his considerable charisma, commanding voice, and determined manner. Ammon was reputed to never look relaxed or at ease, though he might flash an amused smile or sneer. The effects of his chosen profession were apparent on his body: covering his face and forehead were a latticework of glowing tattoos, likely magical in nature and possibly Thayan in origin. Other effects included Ammon's eyes, which were tinted and glowed with gold-red luminescence, and the smell of smoke and blood that arose from him when angered. Ammon's hair was reddish in hue.
Typically, Ammon was dressed in a leather suit covered in what appeared to be alchemical ingredients, though during his confrontation with the King of Shadows he also wore a black cape and hood.
Personality
Ammon Jerro had no tolerance for fools and little patience for politics (he stated the latter himself in conversation with the Kalach-Cha, regarding Zhjaeve's unwillingness to call for githzerai reinforcements, as it would cause the githyanki to divert their attention from the King of Shadows.) He was willing to do whatever it took to achieve his goals.
During his travels with the Kalach-Cha, Ammon Jerro would continue to advocate the extreme methods that he had himself used decades earlier. He was possibly eventually dissuaded from these views, based upon the successes of the Kalach-Cha as well as the hero's relationship with his granddaughter, Shandra Jerro, revealed to him during a confrontation with the devil Koraboros.
Drizzt possessed a horn charm on a silver chain. When blown into, the charm summoned Andahar who appeared, running and gradually growing in size, from another dimension. However, unlike Drizzt's other magical companion, Guenhwyvar, Andahar was mortal and could be wounded. He also could also be summoned at any time for as long as required.
Andahar was 17 hands tall. He had a white coat of fur, an ivory horn tipped with a golden point, and blue piercing eyes. He also had bells tied to his reins, which Drizzt could silence or set to ringing as he saw fit.
This whale had a boat strapped to its upper back and head with a large leather harness. The boat was was able to fit several humanoids in. When the sperm whale planned to go underwater, he was able to create an air bubble, so that the passengers were able to breathe in such an environment. He had multiple scars across his body sustained from attacks by Auril's roc, Iskra.
Angrath was a large woman with broad shoulders and strong arms and legs but was growing fat in her old age. When it wasn't tied back, she had wispy halo of long gray-to-white hair surrounding her wrinkled, not-so-pretty face. She walked with a bow-legged shuffle.
Anorrweyn was a beautiful elven woman, tall, slender, and graceful. She was dressed in exquisite finery and had long flowing brown hair.
Though a pure-blooded human, anth-Malar had the aspect of a furry humanoid beast with hooked claws.
Anthraxus has darkvision, and blindsight. He speaks Abyssal, Common, Primordial, and he has telepathy. He also hovers and can teleport.
Antoine was a stylish, wealthy man, with well-kempt black hair and a matching beard. He wore red clothes inlaid with gold patterns.
As to be expected, Anton was quite knowledgeable about the process of forming a guild that was officially recognized by Lord Neverember and the city's government.
A dark-skinned man, Anwar carried a stern expression on his face. He garbed himself in black and grey, and wore a red keffiyeh on his head, fastened with a black agal.
Ao only took physical form once, during the Time of Troubles. In that instance, he took the form of a being that was 12 feet (3.6 m) tall, ageless (neither young nor old), with a visage that was not pleasant yet wasn't unpleasant, because it didn't have any remarkable features. He had a white beard and hair, and wore a black robe dotted by millions of stars and moons, arranged in a not-quite-perceptible pattern but which had a beautiful and harmonious feel. Otherwise, he was envisioned as a very literal beard in the sky, with only face and hands.
Aoth was the chief of the Brotherhood of the Griffon, and was formerly the captain of the Griffon Legion of Pyarados. Aoth was spell-touched and had not aged since the Spellplague.
He was of Mulan descent though he doesn't look like it with his blunt features and short, stocky frame. His body and hands showed the intricate tattooing of a wizard. He wore badges that revealed him as a rider of the elite Griffon Legion. Since he was affected by the Spellplague, Aoth Fezim's eyes showed hints of the blue flame retained inside. In an attempt to restore his eyesight, Aoth had sigils of healing and clearvision tattooed above his eyes. He started to wear a dark bandage covering his eyes, though it was no hindrance to his flame-altered sight.
Fezim was known to favor griffons as familiars. The griffon Brightwing was formerly Aoth's familiar. Through their psychic link he could use Brightwing's enhanced senses like his own. Aoth's familiar in 1479 DR was the black griffon Jet.
Apollo's avatar typically appeared as a well-muscled, incredibly handsome young man.
In his true form, he was a beardless young man who rarely wore clothing.
Aradin had dark skin and dark, curly hair.
Araevin was tall by sun elf standards, and stood about the height of an average human.
Araumycos was a huge life form, a single organism that covered almost all the parts of the Underdark beneath the High Forest, beginning at a depth of 1 mile (1.6 kilometers) under the surface and ending at a depth of 3 miles (4.8 kilometers). It was believed to extend from the Shining Falls to the Lost Peaks and from Tall Trees to the Hall of Four Ghosts, wholly occupying the labyrinth of tunnels and caverns that existed beneath the High Forest. But it seemed that it had reached its peak of volume since it no longer grew through other territories by 1372 DR.
It was described as spongy, grey, and humid, similar to the outside of a brain.
In his younger years, Aravilar believed himself superior to others due to his elven heritage, and often spoke to others as if they were his lessers. While he was confident in himself to the point of being arrogant when he first joined the Knights, he had mellowed out quite a bit after spending time in the order.
Archadamius had light skin, blue eyes, and long, gray hair. He wore a blue robe and metallic bracers.
Through much magical experimentation, Arcturia had transformed her human appearance into that of a beautiful one with sylph-like wings and fine scales of blue to protect her body.
However, after her death during Halaster's Higharvestide, she was once more transformed through her carefully prepared contingency magic into a worm that walks. Her true form became one of a vile undead amalgamation of worms, though she would wear a mask to hide her inner appearance.
Ardasir stood 7 feet (2.1 meters) tall and appeared like a majestic Zakharan. He had dark hair and the distinctive pointed ears of his kind. His skin was tanned until it was almost black from long exposure to the harsh desert sun. He had piercing blue eyes that almost sparkled when he was excited. Ardasir wore dark robes typical of the al-Badia with the hopes of appearing as a large human or ogre at a distance.
Ardonell Firemoon was known for her passionate views on the growing political power of Cormyr. Her speeches often riled up unrest towards the Land of the Purple Dragon. Another notable quality of hers was the knowledge of old lore, ancient stories, and legends that surprised even Elminster Aumar hiself.
Thanks to the fight with the Narwhal, Aremag had a blind, milky left eye and was missing a piece of its shell. He had a particularly grouchy personality.
This lich was described to be a monstrous being. He fed on the pure energy of hate and darkness.
Lady Aridarye was devastatingly beautiful with high cheekbones, sharp features, pale skin, warm brown eyes, and a dazzling smile. Her bell-like laugh was almost her trademark. She had dark hair long enough to reach her waist, but she usually wore it up in a fancy coiffure held in place by a golden headpiece. Often judged younger than her actual age, she was slender and curvaceous, standing 5 ft 4 in (160 cm) and weighing 115 pounds (52.2 kilograms). She favored blues and purples for the extravagant gowns that accentuated her figure. She was rarely seen without her elaborately decorated dagger in its equally ornate scabbard. Many who were the target of her ire said that her eyes flashed scarlet in her fury.
Like most half-elves, her ears were pointed and she retained her youthful appearance and vitality even into middle age. Her eyes were blue, flecked with gold, and she had a more human build than elvish, though her skin was still quite fair. She had black hair and a hint of blue beneath her skin and generally looked more like an elf rather than a half-elf. She was 5'9" tall.
In 1361 DR, around her fourth decade of life, Arilyn appeared 20 years of age, as reckoned by a human.
Arilyn's typical travel outfit included boots, trousers, a dark cloak, and a simple blue tunic over a loose shirt. However, she was very skilled at disguises. Aided by her moonblade, she could take on a number of disguises: a Sembian courtesan, a street waif, and a cleric of Mielikki.
The tiefling had mid-long black hair and horns that curled inwards. Arka wore a brown jerkin with rings sparsely positioned throughout it. The jerkin covered a blue long-sleeved garment.
Arrick was a strong figure as a merman, with a head and torso that resembled a Calishite human. After his turning, his mouth became a fanged maw similar to that of a lamprey and his tail lost its scales and became smooth skin with the two side fins characteristic of that blood-sucking eel. His eyes were red like other vampires. He wore sharkskin armor and sported a dark purplish black cloak that gave him the look of a manta ray.
Artemis Entreri was not very tall (in fact, considered "small") but he was compact with wiry muscles. He was possessed of angular features, striking high cheekbones, and prominent sideburns. Though he was usually clean-shaven, Artemis always seemed to need a shave. He had brown skin, which was later tinged with a grayish hue. His raven-black hair was thick and full, but his eyes were gray and lifeless, portraying the emptiness of his life and his soul. When he was about 40 years old, Artemis had the lean athleticism of a man half his age. While traveling with the drow elf Jarlaxle, Artemis was often seen wearing a small-brimmed black hat called a bolero.
As humans aged far more quickly than elves, Artemis first started to feel the bite of age in 1364 DR, while Drizzt was still as agile and powerful as he was when the two of them first met. On the way to Damara, Artemis inadvertently stole the life-force of a shade with his vampiric dagger. He then appeared to have reversed age a full decade, and his aging slowed considerably. It was likely that he would live as long as an elf or dwarf.
In 1484 DR, Artemis appeared to be 40 years old.
As a young child, Artus was scrawny with dark brown eyes.
Through his long adventuring career, Artus earned many scars of various shapes and sizes that covered his back and stomach, including the scars left by the Zhent torturers. When Artus settled in Chult, he was gifted a lightweight lush green hooded tunic, perfect for the hot and humid climate of the jungle. The tunic was adorned with the crest of Theron Silvermace's family that clashed with its green color. The crest depicted a diving falcon and a silver mace. The tunic became Artus' favorite outfit to survive his adventures in the jungles.
Due to the immortality granted by the Ring of Winter, Artus kept his looks and charm throughout his life. Artus was a tall and strikingly handsome man of lithe build. He often wore leathers, hoods, and cloaks to help him keep a low profile, as well as leather gloves to hide the Ring of Winter and the tattoos of the names of his dearly departed animal companions—a pair of talking wombats named Byrt and Lugg—on his fingers above his knuckles.
Even after Meltharond's death, Arveiaturace still carried his skeletal remains and rider's palanquin on her back. In his later years, Meltharond used a complex web of spells to keep his bones intact and in their proper place—these magics continued even after his death, causing his skeleton to sit upright and even move his skull to face whichever direction Arveiaturace was facing.
At age 150, owing to a blessing of Torm, Arwyl still looked youthful, possessing a sturdy build and attractive features, although his hair had turned white by this point. His eyes were a bright blue.
Asgorath never manifested himself before his worshipers. However, he made his existence felt as a powerful presence in their minds.
Asgorath, however, could manifest physically if he wanted to, taking on the form of any dragon, and even in forms of other draconic creatures, such as pseudodragons. The oldest myths of dragonkind claimed that Asgorath manifested physically only once, during the act of creating the multiverse. Those who believed in this myth believed Asgorath was so huge, that even his scales were larger than the largest mortal dragon that ever existed.
An extremely old red dragon, Ashardalon had an appearance that diverged somewhat from usual ancient dragons of his kind. He possessed unusual demonic features and a scar on his chest in the shape of an enormous winged humanoid.
Asmodeus's true form was that of a wingless scaled serpent hundreds of miles long. His form's sheer size made it impossible for him to meet and enter into conversations with others. Therefore, he created humanoid-looking avatars. The location of his body was kept secret from everyone, including other devils and everyone who learnt of the truth about his body was killed within a day.
Asmodeus never showed himself except through avatars or project image, both in humanoid forms. Asmodeus's avatars looked like a slim, charismatic, red-skinned humanoid over 13 feet (4 meters) tall, with horns on his head and glowing red eyes. Overall, he had charismatic and beautiful looks that captivated people. He always had a perfectly trimmed beard and wore very expensive red and black clothing, which were valuable enough to cover the annual national spending of any nation. However, underneath these expensive garments, the body was wracked with bleeding injuries. While he was in pain, he managed to give the impression of someone unconcerned with the pain the injuries caused him. He could manifest ten avatars at once if needed, allowing him to station one on each layer of Hell if he needed to, with a tenth leftover for managing extraplanar duties. Each of his avatars held a Ruby Rod of Asmodeus.
Asper was a lithe and petite beautiful woman.
The noble high elf had grey curly hair, and was several hundred years old as of the latter half of the 15th century. He was a talented rogue who was skilled at using the bow.
Astilabor usually manifested as a huge dragon that shimmered with all the chromatic and metallic colors of dragonkind.
Astriel was a tall woman with long raven-black glistening hair. She bore some resemblance to Talarenne. She had a variety of outfits and disguises to aid in her missions.
Once a great power, little remained of Atropus but a decaying, disembodied head the size of a small moon, apparently made of black stone, heavily cratered, and covered with foul amniotic fluid. It was barren and rocky, roughly spherical and with mountainous ridges, deep trenches, and sharp spikes upthrusting from the ground. Noxious tar bubbled up from the craters. Glossy black stones, each 40 miles in diameter, formed its eyes. Atropals were said to be cast-off detritus from Atropus's substance. Undead conjured from nightmares also inhabited the world, and the master of them all was a headless, alien humanoid that was the focus of Atropus's incomprehensible intellect.
Auril appeared as an attractive human woman with blue skin. Her body was made from ice and snow.
Aurinax often disguised himself as an elderly dwarf called Barok Clanghammer. In that form, he used the dragonstaff as a walking stick.
He had the power to entirely bypass Ahghairon's dragonward and freely enter into and out of the City of Splendors.
Unlike other tieflings that had red, purple, and other colors of skin, Avarice's skin had no pigment as she had albinism.
Aviss was a bird-like woman, with dusky skin, red hair shaped like horns, yellow slitted eyes, long raking talons on her fingers, and a pair of feathered brown wings that allowed her to fly. She wore a gold-hued breastplate, red boots, and a red sash. She spoke in an archaic form.
Most of Aziza's features were covered by her dark chador.
Azoun was a handsome man just under 6 feet and 0 inches (1.8 meters) with brown eyes, brown gray-streaked hair, graying mustache. He was stocky, muscular, and physically fit for the man of his age who kept a rigorous exercise regimen.
The Lord of Spells often appeared as an elderly man with a long, white beard garbed in antique clothes and wielding a gem-topped staff.
Triel was once renowned as among one of the most beauteous denizens of Celestia but was physically altered after his corruption. His new form was that of a 12 ft (3.7 m) tall humanoid with shimmering, sable skin and the jittering, compound eyes of a fly. Still angelically stunning even after his fall from grace, Asmodeus put a curse upon him as punishment for a later crime, forcing him into an even more demeaning form.

   An aspect of Baalzebul 
The former celestial's mutated form was that of a 25 ft (7.6 m) tall slug, a grotesque abomination infamously unpleasant even to other devils. The Lord of the Flies was constantly surrounded by swarms of the buzzing, scuttling creatures that earned him his title. His body glistened with mucus and thanks to his curse, fecal matter and other rancid filth manifested in piles wherever he went, resulting in his notoriously noxious stench. His deformed arms rested at his front and were more comparable to prehensile tails in functionality. Replacing his handsome visage was a gross, human-like face with torpid lips, incapable of properly pronouncing words without a slimy, wet lisp.
However, even when reduced to such an unsightly state, faint glimpses of the Slug Archduke's previously glorious appearance could still be made out. He had recently managed to work off his punishment, partially freeing him from Asmodeus's curse and allowing him to return to his humanoid form.
Some described Baba Yaga as the most powerful female mage ever known. The sorceress was known to pass to other planes, and in doing so, her hut appeared elsewhere. Many noted that Baba Yaga was somehow related to night hags, green hags, and annis hags. Some of these hags even worshiped Baba Yaga.
The 5‑foot-tall (1.5‑meter) sorceress was said to be of godlike intelligence, but very physically ugly. She had a long warty nose, a skeletal frame, and thin white hair. She had sharp, iron-like teeth and fingers that curved into claws. On occasion she had a rather plump frame. It was uncertain whether her changing frame was due to having recently eaten or simply on a whim of preference.
Bael was sometimes depicted as either a toad, cat, male human, or some combination of the three, but none of these reflected his actual appearance.
In reality, Bael resembled a muscular, golden-skinned humanoid somewhere over 8 feet (2.4 meters) in height. He had a generally bovine appearance, with a long head, a long, broad nose, and two small, forward-curling bull horns. Above his horns were two large, round, watery eyes, which matched his skin in hue, and a pair of large, pointed ears that protruded from an impressive mane of red hair. Unlike an ordinary bull, however, the archdevil's wide mouth concealed a series of pointed teeth.
In his natural form, Bahamut was a massive dragon approximately 180 feet (55 meters) long, with a tail the same length as his body, with platinum scales tougher than any shield (said by some to be virtually indestructible) that glowed with a faint blue sheen, and blue eyes, the exact color of which was hard to specify and may have depended on Bahamut's mood. As Xymor, he was described as a huge dragon wrapped in a scintillating aura of light so brilliant that it was impossible to tell his color.
When he wished to wander the mortal world, he usually took the appearance of an old human or demihuman dressed in peasant robes accompanied by seven canaries. Some sages believed Bahamut used this humanoid guise to not frighten non-dragon beings. They also believed that while Bahamut was fond of his old man guise, he had other guises as well. Other recorded guises included that of a prince with a carriage drawn by seven horses, an urchin accompanied by seven friends, and a beggar followed by seven dogs.

Diet
Bahamut's favored food was the early morning frost on blades of grass, honey, and daisy petals. He was able to eat anything, however, and he needed no sustenance while in his palace.
Bahgtru appeared as a gigantic, 16 feet (4.9 meters) tall, incredibly muscular orc with dirty tan skin. His eyes were dull green and his tusks, that protruded from both sides of his mouth, glistened white due to his gnawing on bones.

“
Know I anything of that loyal man, 'tis this: alive or dead, he'll be at his post.

”
— An adventurer.

Baldassar was a loyal guard captain that fought with a blue shield and a longsword. He had light brown hair and a large moustache. He wore a grey-brown leather jerkin with brown trousers, boots and a mantle.
History
In the 14th century DR, a contingent of drow raided a village in Icewind Dale in search of Drizzt Do'Urden. Baldassar and his men fought off many dark elves, leaving him injured. They did what they could to protect the guardhouse, but did not have the manpower to put out the fires that spread around the village. In particular, the store house was burning quickly—in there contained the supplies needed for surviving the harsh winters of the region. He was found a couple of local adventurers, who were also his good friends, outside the guardhouse, and tasked them with putting out the raging fires. Although Drizzt lived nearby the village, Baldassar did not believe that the renegade dark elf was responsible for the razing of his village. He advised the adventurers to seek out Vermulean the wise druid, as he lived far enough away that his home was likely not razed.
He may have chosen to join his friends to Menzoberranzan as a companion.
Baloreik was clad in ornamented armor, with a horned helmet atop his head, and a flowing, red cloak fastened to his back. His skin was dark, nearly green in complexion.
When summoned, Bane had a dark and rather shadowy appearance with a resemblance of dark armor and his tell-tale jeweled, dark gauntlet. He emanated an aura of vast power and cruel intelligence.
Bani's flat face was accompanied by a broad nose, pointed ears, wide mouth, and sharp fangs. He stood four feet (1.2 m) tall. His skin was dull red and he had yellow eyes.
Baphomet had the appearance of a 12 ft (3.7 m) tall humanoid with a bull's head, a bovine tail, and broad, stubby hands and feet. His body was covered with coarse black hair. His horns curved downward and outward. He wielded a giant bardiche. Baphomet could spit out gouts of unholy water.
Barachiel was a regal tome archon standing nine feet (three meters) tall. Sexless, but with masculine features, he had impressive, silver-feathered wings above his shoulders. His skin was silver, and his eyes were dark purple.
Barachiel clothed himself in a long violet robe speckled with glowing stars.
She was small of stature.
The svirfneblin wore a leather cuirass fastened by a thin belt.
Barrom had chiseled facial features, framed by a mane of wavy, brown hair. His pointed ears hinted at his half-elven heritage. He wore a dark blue cloak over otherwise gray-blue clothes.
Barth had dark skin and the side of his head was shaved. The rest of his brown hair was bundled on top of his head. He fought with a sword and shield.
Bazim-Gorag appeared to be a toad-like humanoid with skin mottled red and gold. He was a hulking creature, lean yet muscular, and larger than an ogre. Two frog-like heads sprouted from his shoulders, each with two eyes like balls of white fire and a wide mouth filled with sharp teeth. His heads would finish each others' sentences, each head having a different pitch, and one could hear them hissing and murmuring to each other at times.
At will, Bazim-Gorag could also polymorph into a humanoid form, typically using the guise of a tall, handsome human lord in bronze armor. His unkempt hair in this form was a brilliant hue of red and orange, his skin a dark, ruddy shade of bronze, and his eyes almost glowing red. Though one head was magically hidden, the two minds of Bazim-Gorag were still both intact, and a change in pitch could still be heard midsentence.
Beautiful Flower was a full-grown deepspawn aberration, 14 feet (4.3 meters) in diameter. It appeared to be a huge leathery sphere with many suckered tentacle-like appendages; some of the thinner appendages ended with eyeballs, and one central tentacle sprouted a maw.
Unlike many other archdevils, Bel retained a resemblance to a pit fiend, appearing as a 12‑foot (3.7‑meter) tall, crimson-scaled colossus with massive, bat-like wings, clawed extremities, and fangs that dripped a green, smoking venom. His visage was brutal and bestial but nonetheless infernal, warped by innumerable years of willful wickedness and hatred.
Belaphoss was a huge and physically imposing balor. His head was adorned with a mass of flaming horns, and his red skin was ornamented with glowing script. He carried an enormous greataxe, and large wings sprouted from his back.
He appeared as a massive, red-skinned fiend that towered over most humanoids.
Belial was the most handsome of the archdevils, appearing as an impressively built, 10 ft (3 m) tall figure of masculine beauty. He was tall, dark and sensual, practically oozing carnality through the regal garments that clung to his body in such a way as to promise pleasure and further his libidinous image.
Before Mephistopheles took on a more infernal appearance, Belial was also the most devilish looking Lord of the Nine, an impression enhanced by the ranseur he always held in his claws. Some said his skin was scaly and ash-black while others purported it was red, and early reports claimed he had a glossy black tail and wings. Other signs of his hellishness could be seen in the small horns, the same black as his tail and wings, that emerged under his hairline, and his large, slanted eyes that glowed and smoldered red with lustful intent. His monstrous features however did little if any to detract from his aura of civility and overall mesmerizing physique.
Though Beliot was small at 5 feet and 5 inches (1.6 meters) tall, he was a large man, weighing some 210 pounds (95 kilograms) with thickly muscled arms, legs, and chest.
He had grey eyes. Around 1369 DR, he kept his head and face completely shaved, though he later grew his hair and muttonchops. 
Belwar Dissengulp was a stout barrel-chested gnome with a deep voice. After Belwar's hands were cut off, his people grafted enchanted weapons on each arm instead of hands, one being a pick-axe and the other a hammer.
Described as a force of nature, Benju was a big man, with a broad build and great power, yet he was also as graceful as a dancer and could be just as silent. He had dark eyes and strong facial features. Though he normally spoke softly, when needed he took a commanding tone with ease. Aged in his late 60s by Wa Year 1775, he looked and acted like a man ten years younger. He typically wore only a plain brown kimono.
Handsome even for drow standards, Berg'inyon kept his short hair finely cut.
In his natural form, Bes appeared as a 4 feet (1.2 meters) tall figure, likened to either a shield dwarf or a stunted human, with a powerful physique and bowlegs. His face, which was described as so ugly that it could scare evil spirits away, featured a bushy beard. He typically wore a panther skin with the tail still attached, although some accounts said that he had a tail himself.
Bigby was not born on Toril, but instead on Oerth. However, it is believed that he had travelled to Toril.
The archmage invented many handy spells, several of which were used in the Realms. Some of these spells were Bigby's forceful hand, Bigby's interposing hand, Bigby's clenched fist, Bigby's crushing hand, and Bigby's grasping hand.
The massive giant had his upper lip torn off by a wolf, which left him permanently scarred. This wound help gave him his name: Big-Grin. It was also implied he had great endurance, since he withstood a hammer blow to the head from Wulfgar's Aegis-fang.
Black Bill O'Shaughnessy was a barrel-shaped tough and gruff looking older human male with graying hair. His arms were decorated with many mariner tattoos.
She had brown fur with dark brown markings, and yellow eyes. Birdsong wore leather armor over a blue tunic and green trousers.
  Bishop's appearance. 
Bishop was attractive, despite his rough lifestyle and poor hygiene, giving him a ruggedly handsome appearance. Bishop lived a full and dangerous life, the signs of which when he met the Kalach-Cha were his numerous scars and burns that ravaged his skin. His ruffled hair and touch of facial hair were brown, as were his eyes, which contrasted with his pale white skin. These features and more added to his feral appearance, which was accentuated by his tendency to sniff the air like a wild animal or constantly look over his shoulder, as if expecting an ambush or betrayal.
Typically, Bishop dressed as if on the hunt, which he often was. When the Kalach-Cha met him in the Sunken Flagon, Bishop was dressed in leather armor and armed with a longbow and longsword, with his hands constantly on one or the other. Bishop was also rarely without his beast companion Karnwyr, a wolf with whom he'd bonded as a ranger.
History
Bishop was born and raised in Redfallow's Watch, a small village within Neverwinter's sphere of influence. A troublesome youth, Bishop hated his home and left it at an early age. After leaving his home, Bishop joined the military forces of the northern city Luskan, serving within their ranks for several years.

Destruction of Redfallow's Watch
Bishop returned to his home some years before the Shadow War, as a test of his initiation into a Luskan assassination squad. Ordered to destroy a Neverwintan village, Bishop chose Redfallow's Watch as the target, seeing an opportunity to destroy his hated home. However, Bishop intended to leave the villagers alive and use the event as a trap to kill the Luskans hiring him. The plan went awry and although Bishop tried to warn the villagers of the imminent danger, his words were held in little regard, and so both the village and its inhabitants, along with the Luskan assassins, perished in the flames. Additionally, Bishop was severely wounded by the Luskans before their demise and left to die.
Guilt-ridden and self-loathing, Bishop waited eagerly for the liberation death would bring, only for his life to be unexpectedly saved by the half-elf adventurer Duncan Farlong, depriving Bishop of his deliverance from life. Additionally, Duncan let Bishop know that he understood what he had done and blackmailed him with the knowledge, insisting that the ranger was now indebted to him. Not wanting his part in the destruction of Redfallow's Watch revealed, Bishop accepted Duncan's claim and went to stay at the Sunken Flagon, where Duncan resided.

The Shadow War
Bishop did little of significance until a short while before the Shadow War, drinking and sleeping at the Flagon in the meantime. He spent a small amount of time wandering the frontier, sometimes alongside the ranger Malin, who was his sometime lover during their hunting of Luskan soldiers.
His adventuring days returned in the Year of Lightning Storms, 1374 DR, however, when a group of githyanki sword stalkers under the command of Zeearie launched their assault on the Flagon in order to capture Shandra Jerro, whom they believed would lead them to the shards of the Silver Sword of Gith and the others searching for them. Rising to help in the defense of the inn, Bishop was shortly thereafter forced to assist Duncan's foster kin, the Kalach-Cha, as the latter attempted to rescue Shandra from the githyanki.
Though Bishop was reluctant to take on the task, he could've proved useful in the search, using his expert tracking skills and familiarity with the territory surrounding Luskan to track the githyanki to their base of operations within an ancient Illefarn ruin. There, the Kalach-Cha and their companions were able to rescue Shandra and kill Zeearie, ending the threat the githyanki posed. Although his debt was fulfilled, Bishop nonetheless, perhaps out of a personal fondness for the Kalach-Cha's skills as well as a deep resentment towards Luskan, might've chosen to aid the Kalach-Cha afterwards. His aid could have been accepted, not least for his skills, but he would be a constant irritant to the other companions of the Kalach-Cha, particularly the paladin Casavir, with whom he shared a sharp dislike, or Grobnar, whom he deemed useless. For the group as a whole, Bishop would prove a source of discomfort because of his openly selfish, immoral, and wildly chaotic evil deeds.
Although proving useful in many circumstances, such as tracking down the Circle of the Mere or Ammon Jerro, Bishop ultimately proved treacherous. At some unknown time, Bishop forged a deal with Black Garius, a powerful Luskan servant of the King of Shadows, bargaining his companions' lives for his own. During the Siege of Crossroad Keep, after having deceived Grobnar into giving him the override commands for the Construct, Bishop betrayed the Kalach-Cha, sabotaging the gates of Crossroad Keep and fleeing as Black Garius entered to finish his attack. However, in spite of Bishop's betrayal, the Kalach-Cha succeeded in repelling the assault and readied themselves for the counterattack into the King of Shadow's fortress within the Vale of the Merdelain.
During the subsequent attack on the fortress, Bishop revealed the motivations behind his betrayal to the Kalach-Cha, as well as the nature of his debt to Duncan and how the incident had shaped his nihilistic and selfish philosophy. He did not survive his encounter with the Kalach-Cha, though the circumstances are unknown. Bishop might have continued on his course, helping Garius in his fight with the Kalach-Cha. Alternatively, the ranger might have been convinced to abandon Garius, perhaps due to feelings towards the hero, though he would be subsequently killed during the collapse of the structure after the King of Shadows's defeat.

Afterlife
After Bishop was killed, he was brought to judgment before Kelemvor in the City of Judgment on the Fugue Plane. Due to his Faithless nature, Bishop was condemned to the Wall of the Faithless for his soul to be gradually sapped away. During a vision induced by Gannayev and the Slumbering Coven, the Kalach-Cha encountered Bishop in this condition while traveling through Rashemen. Bishop confessed his acceptance of his fate, even relishing the oblivion it would ultimately grant him, and his former companion watched as he was devoured by the Wall for good. Although the Kalach-Cha may have interpreted this as a falsehood created by the Slumbering Coven, Kelemvor later confirmed the ranger's fate to the hero.
Bjorn, son of his father of the same name, commanded a village of around 500 people. He was fairly bad tempered, but treated the citizens of Bjorn's Hold as his own family. Bjorn despised Luskan, despite being a Northman, and preferred to sell his village's catches to Calishites in Port Llast.
The Northman had greying hair and a beard, and wore a green tunic that was fastened by a studded belt.
Over his chain mail, Blacker wore a black and red-trimmed cloak. He wore red gloves, and a wide-brimmed cavalier hat adorned with a red feather.
He generally appeared in one of two forms. The first was as a big black leopard. The other was as a man of large size and muscular build, bearing the head of a black leopard.
Long, brown hair framed Blade's stern face, which was adorned with green eyes, full lips, and a prominent nose.
Bleak Sky wore a large metal helmet, a huge furred coat and set of gloves. The shaman also carried a spear and a shield.
The ancient shaman ruled over 200 people, and was said to have incredible patience and a sense of humor.
Blibdoolpoolp usually took the form of a 15‑foot-tall (4.6‑meter) nude human female, with a lobster's head and claws. Other depictions portrayed a crayfish's head and claws and an articulated shell covering her shoulders. Those forced to look deeply into her eyes at close range could be driven to insanity.
Following his forced transformation at the hands of the archmage, Waelarn's body was a misshapen assemblage of animal parts, similar to a mongrelman. This included a lobster-like claw for one hand a raccoon-like paw for the other. He was described as "half-man, half-monster", and spent much of his time in this state. He could use spells to transform back to his original form, but this slowly failed and shifted back to his bestial form.
Waelarn was quite elderly by 1341 DR.
Bluster was a brown bear and in the middle of his life.
  A young Bobby. 
Bobby was the youngest of his adventuring group, but was certainly able. The barbarian, always ready for battle, would be quick to rage and strike with his greatclub. In his early years, he was often found with his pet unicorn, Uni.
In his adult years, Bobby grew to be the largest of his group in both height and width. He became extremely muscular and his hair significantly darkened from blonde to brown. Much of his apparel remained the same.
Possessions
The barbarian wielded a thunder club, and wore hide armor +2, an amulet of natural armor and boots of the winterlands. He also carried with him several potions, and other items such as solvents and glue.
A henchman to the Hero of Neverwinter, Boddyknock was skilled in arcane magic but also used a crossbow and dagger when needed. He was said to be a very serious looking gnome, often deep in thought and concentrating on the world around him.
Bonegnasher was a mountain of a man who reached 9 feet (2.7 meters). He was not particularly bright, and ruled by instilling fear into the humanoids in his marauding band.
Boo was a fuzzy hamster, though other claimed that he was a miniature giant space hamster. While there was skepticism regarding the claim, Minsc insisted that Boo was, in fact, a space hamster who was intelligent and could converse coherently with him. However, as Minsc was quite addled, it was unclear whether or not his claims were true. When he travelled to Barovia, Minsc asked the vistana seer, Madam Eva, about his "space hamster companion", she responded with "the one you call Boo"? This might suggest that she acknowledged Boo as a space hamster, though her response could be seen as the opposite, as she did not directly answer as she did with Minsc's name.
Typically for an imp, Boonmoppet had a human-looking face, devil's horns, and quickly-flopping red bat-like wings.
He hailed from a wealthy dwarven family noted for their unusual skill at metallurgy. Boon was reddish-brown of hair and fair of skin, clad himself in gilded armor, and wore a lengthy red cape.
Boswell was a short (5 feet, 4 inches) and pudgy man, but he had a regal appearance. He was around 50 years old in 1369 DR. He had a huge handlebar mustache and keen blue eyes. His hair was pure white but nearly all lost to balding. He often wore an expensive courtly dress.
Semyon was just under 6' (1.8 m) tall, with a muscular build and hard facial features.
The dwarf wore a light-purple jerkin, blue shorts, runic bracers, and woolly boots. He had a braided black beard, a mustache, pale skin covered in tattoos, and mid-length black hair.
He sold several weapons, both magical and ordinary. He claimed that he had more than enough weapons for everyone. Branoch also sold a variety of armor, potions, and other goods.
  Brelaina's appearance. 
Brelaina was typically dressed as a soldier. She had a Watch uniform, which she kept it in a good condition. She was attractive.
Personality
Brelaina, unlike Cormick, was a good diplomat and thought about her next steps wisely. While she did not want to pester people too much, she expected of her soldiers some loyalty, competence, and discipline.
Brenna was very petite for a human, slightly above 5 ft. in height, she was slender and fair like an elf. She had tender brown eyes, round cheekbones, and a perky nose with a tip pointing slightly up. A pale complexion was a result of her spending long days in the libraries. Brenna's hair was long to her waist, with blue ribbons waved into it, dark red in color. She often smelled of lilac.
Brenvol was a skilled hunter, tracker and fairly good cook who always preferred to have company while enjoying a campsite meal.

Appearance
The young werewolf had a pointed nose, red cheeks and graying hair (in his human form), that was fully white in some spots, a trait common among his pack members. He had a long and lean frame, similar to that of a wolf.

Personality
He was a friendly and outgoing man who was popular among the Fangshields, and had many among the group who would readily rush to his aid. His good nature made him the perfect contact person for new recruits within the Fangshields.
Because of the giant-blood running in her veins, Brianna was nearly seven feet tall, with a body as rugged as most human males without sacrificing her femininity. Her face was striking, with clear skin, and she had long blonde hair.
Brindol was a fiery genasi armored in a carapace of burn-blackened iron, that had trophies of Brindol's past victories bolted across all the armor. Red tattoo-like designs curled across the rest of his body.
The mage had medium-length brown hair, deep green eyes, and wore a purple and gold scarf, as well as a green robe. He also wore several pieces of jewelry. Brinshaar was versed in fighting with darts, as well as a quarterstaff, and was very tough and robust for a mage.
Briza was large by drow standards and had a round figure.
The Banite man wore a metal vest over studded leather armor. He also wore a green beret, gauntlets, and wielded a quarterstaff.
The dwarf wore woolly boots, a ragged brown-blue outfit, and a belt. Brogan had a brown mohawk and a beard.
Bruenor had wild red hair and beard. He had a large, hawk-like, pointy nose that had been broken several times. His eyes were blue and he stood 4.5 feet (1.4 meters) tall.. In 1357 DR, he lost his right eye in battle and gained a great scar running from his forehead to his jaw. However, his eye was later restored.
After his reincarnation, Bruenor looked the same as in his previous life, only much younger.
Bryan the Bold had pale skin and brown hair, and typically wore studded leather armor and green breeches, with a sword.
The mage had blonde hair and brown eyes. He wore a ring of wizardry. Bugenius carried a spellbook, and a wand of magic missile. Bug liked to study magic and learn new spells. Given his good nature, he was eager to destroy evil creatures.
In life, Cabrath was a dusky grey-skinned drow woman with amber eyes and gray-white hair. She tended to wear a heavy black robe with rich purple colors inside the sleeves.
After her death and transformation into a keening spirit, Cabrath was shrouded in a bone-white shimmer and appeared as an insubstantial and slightly transparent version of herself, with her robes trailing off into smoky nothingness.
Standing 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall at just under 200 lb (91 kg), Cadderly was a notably handsome man. He had a warm smile, curly brown hair, and gray eyes that cut through someone on the occasions that he got angry.
While Cadderly always looked much older than his actual age, this was especially true during his work on the Spirit Soaring temple. His extensive use of magic during that time made him appear to be at least 100 years old.
Thanks to her angelic heritage Caelar's eyes shown with a bright blue radiance.
Caladorn was a fighter through and through – broad-shouldered, and 6 ft (1.8 m) tall. He had short dark red or brown hair and was clean-shaven, with a prominent cleft chin. He was somewhat older than his friend Danilo Thann.
Calandra was a tough warrior with bushy brown hair and a toned body.
He was 6 feet and 1 inch (1.8 meters) tall and weighed 200 pounds (90 kilograms). As a Talontar, Calispar's face was tattooed with black and blue whirling designs upon his cheeks and brow. His black hair was poorly and closely cut, and his eyes were black and beady.
Callaway was a hardy worker who spent most of his life under the sun, evidently from his tanned skin. He had a weather-beaten face, gray hair, and bushy sideburns. He tended to talk in a caustic manner as he preferred to work, leaving little time for oratory practice. He also was very superstitious, refusing to talk about strange goings-on or even diseases that plagued the town in 1372 DR. He swished anyone who asked about such things to protect the young ones from such "evil talk."
Calliope had shoulder-long red hair and a freckled face. Her one blue eye showed a mischievous personality while an eyepatch covered the left eye.
Cap'n Gyudd was a lean and strong dwarf, but in his later years, he walked with a limp on a polished ivory peg-leg—although he claimed that it was carved from the "eye-tooth" of a radiant dragon.
In his retired years, Cap'n Gyudd weighed 157 pounds (71.2 kilograms) and stood 47 inches (120 centimeters) tall.
She had pale skin and long, auburn hair, and wore a white tunic with red details over a suit of chain mail. The ensemble was tied together by a matching red cloak and belt.
  Casavir's appearance. 
Aged in his 30s, black-haired and blue-eyed, Casavir was a well-built and dignified human with a handsome physique and sophisticated aura. Casavir would have been an image of strength were it not for the resigned expression that so often crossed his face. Dour and serious, Casavir was rarely exuberant but instead measured and calm in both speech and body language. Casavir was often dressed in full plate armor and his weapon of choice when the Kalach-Cha encountered him was a large warhammer, paired with a shield.
Personality
Virtuous by just about any measure, Casavir took his duties as a paladin very seriously. Adhering to his code to the letter, Casavir held himself to very high standards, standards that he himself, in spite of his constant vigilance against evil or temptation, often failed to meet. His high standards were likely in part due to his past, which involved his self-exile from Neverwinter and his estrangement from a lost love. Because of these personal failures and past mistakes, Casavir took it upon himself to fight injustice at all times, even to points that were sometimes unwise or overly brash, such as his crusade at Old Owl Well.
This attitude put him at odds with the openly selfish and pragmatic Bishop, whose cruelty and evil ways disturbed the paladin as much as Casavir's refinement put Bishop at unease. Casavir also caused the tiefling Neeshka no small amount of discomfort, though the paladin seemingly held no grudge against her.
He had very pale skin, long, white hair, and a matching full beard. Casimir clad himself in a voluminous, high-collared blue robe, over which he wore a cloak made from red fabric and fur. He also wore a red hat ornamented with a horned skull.
Like Alias, Cassana was 5 ft 10 in (1.8 m) tall with reddish-blond hair, which lacked the luster of Alias', had green eyes and high cheekbones. Her features were similar in nearly every way to Alias' but are much more cold and cruel.
As of 1370 DR, Cassius had short gray hair and kept a close shave. He had bright blue eyes and a rather slender build.
While being a skilled diplomat, Cassius' military ability and leadership skills were legendary throughout the Ten Towns.
Cassius never put away the thief's ways he learned as child, but he nevertheless became a respected and capable leader.
This Catlord was, in his human form, an old yet powerful and pantherish figure with a mane and beard of long gray hair. He had dark skin, a wide head and flat nose, and long and pointed fang-like upper and lower canine teeth. He wore thick, blue-gray furs, tunic, breeches, and boots, with whole clawed paws on his shoulders, as well as crescent earrings. His fight with Malar left savage scars across his torso, and a claw wound down the side of his face had blinded his left eye.
In cat form, he was a gray-furred old panther, with the same scar on his face.
Catti-brie was beautiful, auburn-haired, and blue-eyed.
When Catti-brie was struck by the blue fire of the Spellplague in 1385 DR, it gave her a spellscar in the distinctive form of an hourglass, the lower half of which was nearly filled while the top half had only a small sliver of bruising.
In her second life, despite her new heritage, the reincarnated Catti-brie appeared much the same as in her first body: she had thick, light brown hair with red highlights and blue eyes. She also had a spellscar on each arm: a seven-pointed star on a circle of red on her left forearm (the symbol of Mystra) and a unicorn's head on her right forearm (the symbol of Mielikki). After the Weave began to return, her spellscars turned red.
In 1483 DR, Catti-brie wore a long, white, flowing dress that looked like one she wore in Iruladoon. She had commissioned it in the Shade Enclave. She often wore it with a black shawl.
Human forms
The Cat Lord appears alternately as a black cat, a black panther, a pale human male with dark hair, or a dark skinned male human, or as a hybrid human-cat sharing traits of both cat and human forms. In human form he always wears black garb with simple gold accessories and jewelry with gems that were the same colors as found in cats. Many admire the Cat Lord’s unique style, others envy him his artistry, while those who meet him in person are often swayed by his animal magnetism.
Feline forms
The cat lord also appeared as either a black cat or black panther, with very large, sharp teeth and claws.

The cat lord was indifferent to nearly everything and everyone, except those things and creatures which affected the lives of cats.
Cavatina was noted to be tall, thin, and toned. She had black skin, as was the norm for the drow, with long, ivory hair.
Despite his lack of combat experience he was an expert in military history and strategy.
He was 6 feet and 5 inches (1.95 meters) tall and weighed 250 pounds (113 kilograms), with a excellent muscular and athletic build. He had long red hair worn in a pony-tail, light green eyes, and often had red stubble as he went days between shaving.
Cegilune appeared as a filthy, 10‑foot-tall (3‑meter) hag with mottled, yellow-brown skin, iron-hard claws and a balding scalp from which patches of lank hair flaked off. However, her power to disguise herself meant she could take on a myriad of forms, her usual choice being that of a young human or elven female, a homely crone, or, very rarely, a scruffy goblinoid. She could be recognized when in disguise by the small iron pot she always carried with her.
Underneath the helm she wore in battle, Celadae had shoulder-length brown hair. She had light brown eyes and light skin.
Celestian was portrayed as an older, black-skinned man who traveled the skies. His dark eyes—the same color as his smooth skin—were full of knowledge. Celestian was tall and dressed in black robes covered in stars. Somewhere on his person, Celestian always wore his holy symbol. His movements were swift and silent. He rarely appeared in a physical form, however.
As an Earthsoul, Cephas had dark, reddish skin and was heavily muscled. In his Windsoul manifestation, he was slighter in build and had silver skin.
The powerful caster was described as beautiful, and had jet-black hair. However, she had a considerable ego, and surrounded herself with harpies and medusae, and rode a black dragon. As well as being very tactically smart, she was surprisingly skilled in other areas of combat.
Due to the magical effects of the Wild Hunt, descriptions of Cerunnos by those who survived encounters with him tended to vary. Some described him as having jet black skin, others as having a body covered in fur with a short, full beard and the legs of a stag, and still others said he had had skin that was dyed in blue patterns with woad. But he was always described as having blazing green eyes with a head crowned with stag antlers. His face was always partially hidden, whether by a hunting helmet or by shadows when holding court.
Those who saw him various described Cerunnos wearing black leather armor, a hunting helmet that was black in color and made of metal and leather, an ebony skull mask, or little but a hide kilt and a wolfskin cloak. He also typically wore a torc, symbolizing his former place among the fey nobility.
Chadwick had a long, blonde hair tied to a ponytail. He was light-skinned, and had green eyes. He wore red clothes.
Chahir sported thick black hair and a carefully trimmed beard and mustache. Despite a somewhat emaciated appearance, Chahir was noted as being particularly handsome and had almost beige-colored skin. Dressing in ancient finery, Chahir wore a fine silken robe, embroidered with gold thread and held together down the front by gem-studded buttons.
Chancil was very tall and slender and wore robes and jewelry. Notably, he had a large octagonal rose-hued gemstone embedded in the center of his chest.
Appearance
As a young man, Charles Blacktree IV was somewhat lanky and awkward in appearance, standing 5'11" (1.8m) and weighing 160 lbs (72.6 kg).
When he made appearances in court or at social functions during his younger years, Charles would wear custom-tailored fine silks and leather boots, a brocaded cape, a velvet hat with a roc's feather and a jeweled dagger tucked into his belt. 
When hunting or traveling he wore a custom-made suit of green studded leather armor, sometimes complemented by his magical gauntlets of swimming and climbing. While he didn't care much for their practical use, he appreciated their finely-crafted appearance.
Personality
The young lordling enjoyed his noble position and wealth, and certainly didn't mind flaunting them around the Bluff. He often bragged about his skills as a hunter, his way with women and his political connections, but with little evidence to back up his claims.
If challenged, he would bluster and threaten, but would never commit to a physical confrontation if any conflict rose to that level. He would often throw revels at his estate for his friends among the Ravenian noble youth and enjoyed his reputation as a playboy. While he was tolerated by his colleagues in the Advisory Council, mostly as a gesture of respect to his late father, he was often merely tolerated. For many years he was regarded as vain, indolent and wildly irresponsible by the nobles of the Bluff, and he believed them to be stuffy and old-fashioned.
While this reputation followed Charles for years, it wasn't a permanent state of being for the aging noble. During the War of Ravens Bluff in the year 1370 DR, he joined the Ravenian military as a battlefield commander, rising to the rank of Field General. During this time he was highly respected among everyone in the Bluff, to the point where he had the backing of most of the Ravenian army, in the post-war election for the title of Lord Mayor. In the years to follow he showed some signs of reverting to his old habits of sloth and decadence, much to the chagrin of Lady Katherine.

At 5′11″ (1.8 m) and 240 lb (109 kg), the Lord Mayor was an imposing figure around the town. He had a ruddy face, curly brown hair, and a full beard. His great strength was evident in his massive chest and arms, although middle age and a love of ale took their toll on his waistline by 1356 DR.
He wore clothes of the finest quality but favored somber colors. His sword, ring, and chain of office were all decorated with gold and sapphires. He never wore armor within the city, but always wore a sword in public.
Charlice Churlgo was a hardworking and diligent worker who often nibbled on the cheese she produced.
Charon's appearance was that of a skeletal man with glowing eyes in a haggard face. He typically wore royal robes or ermine and silk. Charon was about 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall, and weighed almost 240 pounds (109 kilograms). His hands were bony claws and his feet were webbed. No-one alive or dead had ever seen Charon without his hood up.
While Chartilifax appeared as a young green dragon, he was tortured and his body modified by the foulspawn sorcerers of the Abolethic Sovereignty. Because of the horrors he faced, Chartilifax could readily change between his draconic form and that of a green-skinned, spellscarred elf.
Due to Rohini's influence, he came to actually believe his elven body was his natural form, and he could transform into a dragon by means of his spellscar. Over time he preferred to remain in the guise of an elf.
Cheddah was extremely obese. He always wore ceremonial battle armor with gold buckles and polished medals.
Chourst appeared as a gangly slaad, around 20‒22 ft (6.1‒6.7 m) tall, of purest chalk-white; his other forms were unknown.
The ranger was 5 ft 9 in (1.8 m) tall which was quite tall for a drow. Cierre had an athletic build due to her time spent living in the wild. Her eyes were a pale amber color, which turn almost orange when she was angry.
The large white dragon was a powerful creature that had a hoard consisting of a few great chests.
When speaking to others, she seemed scared or mentally unwell, with many pauses in her speech.
Clotho was a light-skinned woman with long, brown hair and dark eyes. She wore a helmet and splint mail over a long, blue tunic.
He was a squat and round dwarf with a short yellow beard.
Conner had a muscular build with brown hair, which he typically wore long and tied back in a ponytail. As a young man, he had stubble around his chin and lip, but later in life grew thick sideburns that joined a moustache.
While most elves were slender or athletic, Coran's exuberance for luxury and excess lent his appearance a certain "pudginess". This was exceptionally apparent in his later years of life.
He wore garish outfits that always drew even more attention to the spectacle that was himself. He decorated himself with rather stylist jewelry.
As the personification of all things elven, Corellon was at once a warrior and a poet, a mage and a bard, and a male and a female. However, in his love of Araushnee, he settled into the aspect of a male gold elf warrior, a counterpart to her female dark elf artist. While he retained the capacity to assume female or male form, he conventionally appeared as an androgynous male elf possessed of lithe build and preternatural beauty. His avatars stood 7 feet (2.1 meters) tall and displayed exceptional speed, reflexes, and grace, as well as a strength obvious to all.
He always appeared wearing a sky-blue cloak, a large amulet displaying a crescent moon within a circle, and a pair of dazzling gauntlets.
Even though he was not as big and imposing as his fellow Veiled One, Durwyn, Corran D'Arcey was still quite formidable at 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall. His eyes were gray, often advertising his cold and steely personality. His eyes darkened, and facial features were contorted with rage as he battled forces of evil. It all, however, melted away into serenity during his prayers or giving medical aid to his companions. When he answered a call from Elminster, Corran was still a young man of only twenty-three years old.
He usually wore a simple helmet that covered his short black hair, and he proudly displayed the holy symbol of Tyr which he wore above his heavy armor around his neck.
Cortarra was described as being a short woman with long, dark hair. She wore a red outfit that was fastened by a skull emblem. The enchantress was said to be fascinated with the protector of pilgrims that lived by the Unicorn Run, Lezoul of the Great Oaks. She dwelt in a luxurious room in the upper levels of Geildarr's keep.
Crelt had white hair and a thick, yet groomed white beard. A stern expression was etched on his light-skinned face. He wore leather armor and carried a club.
Crispin was fully absorbed by his work and preferred the company of his cheese vats to other people.
Crokek'toeck appeared to be a huge mudskipper, but with large, regular sets of sharp teeth, greasy fur, and extended legs of a hyena. The demon had multiple tongues and a large, bulbous throat that was used to store other demons (and subsequently vomit them out). Crokek'toeck had an exposed stomach and bones that stuck out underneath it. When swimming, the eyeless demon folded in its two-toed legs, and used its fins (and even its tongues) to aid in movement.
Though Crokek'toeck was unable to speak, it understood Abyssal, and would heed the command of Yeenoghu. The 160 ft (49 m) long demon would also manically cackle like a hyena.
Crow Dz Pong typically wore robes deep blue in color, with a heavy hood and boots black as coal, both trimmed in sky-blue ki-rin fur. At his throat, he wore a pendant with an aquamarine the size of a chicken's egg. His mustaches were braided and long enough to reach his chest; a jewel was tied to the end of each.
Crusher had long brown hair that was decorated with fangs and bones, and he wore heavy armor. One of his ears was torn off and his face appeared to be badly scarred or burned. He fought with a large spiked club and was stronger than the rest of the goblins in camp. The goblin wore a necklace depicted with an interesting combination of three symbols: a triangle, a skull (that covered the triangle), and a crude black object with about five digits (painted on the skull).
Crusher was a slightly smaller wolf than its fellow Predator, about 3 feet (0.91 meters) tall. They both had grey fur.
He somewhat resembled a yeti with two tentacles in place of each arm. He stood 15 feet (4.6 meters) tall and weighed 2,800 pounds (1,300 kilograms). He radiated an aura of terrible cold, said to chill both the body and soul of those around him.
Cullen had a neat goatee and mustache. He usually disdained wearing the Order's blue uniform.
He was charismatic, flamboyant, and sarcastic and had an impressive knack for telling whether or not someone was lying.
Curuvar had a long black beard, wore a robe, and had a raven-topped staff.
Cybriana was a slender and beautiful half-elf woman with pointed ears, identical in form to Kilili. She had pale skin, long, curly blond hair, and blue eyes. She wore a single white star earring from her left ear. She wore a green and brown dress and boots, trimmed with white fur, with brown straps on her left arm and a green glove on her right.
Under the effects of the crystal curse, parts of Cybriana's body were transformed into pink crystal. This began at her fingers and extended up her arms to her shoulders every time she cast a spell. These parts were as hard as rock but remained flexible and did not seem to hamper her movement. These glowed with proximity to Selûne's Eye. 
Cyrog was described to be enormous, and was situated within a large pool.
Cyrrollalee was an exarch of Sheela Peryroyl.
The Hearthkeeper was a caring deity who represented the home-life of halflings. As such, she was interested in hospitality and generosity, and frowned upon those who treated guests poorly. She particularly disdained those who burgled homes or betrayed the trust of hosts.
Cyrrollalee's avatar was that of a brown-haired female halfling. The homely avatar was a skilled cleric, wizard, and paladin who wielded a magical quarterstaff. She favored casting spells that aided others, such as those from the healing, guardian, and protection spheres.
Daelegoth Orndeir was a slim 6-foot-tall (180 centimeters) fire genasi with hair the color of coal and seemingly burning orange veins that entwined his pale skin. He had a very intense voice that not only made others agree that he was knowledgeable in mystical matters, but also made them listen to him.
As a half-dwarf, Daeros was thickset and muscular like his dwarven kin but with the height of a man.
Daghdha was fond of his avatar taking the form of a shabbily or comically dressed man, tall in stature, often wearing a very short tunic and acting in an uncouth manner.
The general was broad shouldered and huge by dwarf standards. He would tuck his long brown beard into his expansive belts.
Dagon's form was a mixture of both octopus and fish. Dagon sprouted countless tentacles and was covered in black, rubbery skin that was punctuated with many red, unblinking eyes. Fish scales shielded his flesh, and row upon row of long fangs jutted from his maw. He stood more than 40 feet (12 meters) tall and was considered one of the most fearsome of the demon lords.
Neverember had "pumpkin-brown" hair, deep-set dark eyes, and broad shoulders. He was often called a "lion of a man" for both his appearance and bearing.
In the late 1480s DR, Neverember sported a thick beard.
Dahlia was a beautiful, tall, blue-eyed elf with a head shaved clean but for a single braid of raven black and cardinal red locks, woven to run down the right side of her head. She wore a set of diamonds in her left ear (one for each of the lovers she had killed) and a set of sparkling studs in her right (for lovers she had yet to kill).
Like many Thayans of the day, she tattooed her head with woad, a blue and purple dye, in a shape hinting at a hunting cat ready to pounce. However, she could also easily disguise herself to appear less striking.
Dahlia often wore a crimson gown which was sleeveless, backless and cut low in the front.
Daltim Flamefist's personal sigil was a stylized dragon.
The tiefling had huge horns sprouting from his forehead, and dark hair. The red skin of his face featured three black stripes across his left eye. Damays fought with a longbow and arrows. He lived in a camp of many tieflings within the Emerald Grove.
When encountered as a crypt thing, Damien resembled a shriveled skeletal figure, dressed in his void-black Robe of eyes. He could be found in the Meditation Room of his Accursed Tower, sitting on the floor in the center of the tilted room in the collapsed spire, holding his ancient diary.
Dancer had yellow-brown skin and light blue tattoos over his body. He wore heavy armor and a matching helmet. He appeared to be fairly laid-back.
A small woman, Danica was hardly taller than five feet. However, every inch of her body was covered in lean, toned muscle, a testament to her strict martial training. However, the muscle hardly diminished her feminine qualities, enhancing them rather.
She had strawberry blond hair, which fell just below her shoulders in unruly curls. Her eyes were dark and almond-shaped, thanks to her oriental heritage.
Danica was noted as being stunningly beautiful, attracting the attention of Cadderly and Kierkan Rufo, as well as Elbereth, the elf prince of Shilmista.
Danifae was described as very beautiful. She was curvaceous and had silver-toned hair with unusual gray eyes.
Danilo was a young Waterdhavian nobleman and aspiring bard. He was about six feet tall and had wavy shoulder-length pale blond hair. Even among the nobles, Danilo's choice of clothing was considered "extravagantly ridiculous." He commonly wore clothes that suit his theme as a dandy and dilettante -- from suits of "walking grape" to the "Ruathym Adventurer garb." Whatever he wore, he was consistently found wearing the height of fashion among the Nobility of Waterdeep.
He had gray eyes. He seemed particularly fond of green clothing and lots of jewelry.
A talented swordsman, Dantrag was unusually tall for a drow, closer to 6 ft (1.83 m) than 5 ft, kept his white hair pulled up into a ponytail, and displayed watchful amber eyes, which blazed red when he was angered.
He was fair of skin and brown of hair. He dressed in a drab, sleeveless tunic, fastened at the waist with a belt.
The Dark God wore a black tattered robe with a hood. In his human-like guise, his face looked like that of a regular human (or humanoid) with brown eyes, but in his true form it was sunken and skull-like, with green eyes.
Darlutheene had blonde hair that she usually colored pink and green near her temples, and violet eyes that she framed with long, green, false eyelashes. She also added beauty spots to her makeup. She was overweight and liked to dress in fancy clothes, such as a royal-blue gown, peacock plumes, and a silk top. As she got older, her gown choices leaned toward tight-fitting, flamboyantly colored, and increasingly revealing. She also wore false gems and other jewelry, such as rings and pendants of glass cut to resemble diamonds. She had six maids-of-adornment who did her make-up.
He was an older dwarf with white hair, and spoke with a deep, gruff voice.
As of 1367 DR, Darsson was in his late 40s. His distinguished features included jet-black hair that was grey at the temples and blue eyes.
Contrary to many wizards, Darsson hated wearing robes. Instead he preferred custom clothing that included plenty of pockets and pouches to accommodate his spell components. He always carried several daggers and a nice assortment of wands.
Like most Calishites, Daryth was deeply tan with dark eyes.
Darz was a male human of Illuskan stock.
He dressed in a full suit of chainmail, over which he wore a red tabard emblazoned with an orange bird symbol. He had light skin, with shoulder-length brown hair and a matching beard.
Dauphal was a fairly average loxo, being 7 ft 3in (221 centimeters) tall and weighing about 490 pounds (213 kilograms).
Davey Halloran was a tall and spindly young human male with shaggy black hair and unkempt facial hair.
He was a gray-scaled kobold who was often seen with pen and paper in hand as well as his lute.
Duerra usually appeared as a 6 ft (1.8 m), stocky, and powerfully-built, female duergar. Most of her hair was shaved off, leaving no beard and only a monk's tonsured cut and a rear-facing, tightly wound braid on her scalp.
Avatar
His avatar looked like a sea elf with blue-green skin and eyes. He preferred to use water-based magic and avoided fire spells.
Despite his involvement, his avatar rarely appeared to fight directly, but he made an exception if Sekolah or Panzuriel was involved. About half the time, he was accompanied by Trishina's avatar. On rare occasions, he would appear with another asathalfinare member's avatar.

Manifestations
Deep Sashelas appeared to his worshipers in three different ways:

A twinkle of light from afar that, if followed by worshipers, lead them to a safe place.
A small vent from which bubbles of air escape. He appeared in this form in sea elf communities to warn them of a potential threat or attack.
A dolphin-shaped vision made of water with a silver glow. He used this form when communicating with sea elf communities.

Deep Sashelas was mainly worshiped by the sea elves, as he was their patron deity and creator. In each of their settlements, there was a temple dedicated to the Dolphin Prince that typically looked like a giant shell. Sometimes, other races sought him as a patron out of an interest in water magic. Among all of his worshipers, it was forbidden to dabble in the usage of the Shadow Weave.
Priests and druids prayed to him during the high tide that was the closest to midday. They played the role of mediators between the races of the sea and of the land. Thanks to Deep Sashelas’s relationship with Trishina, his worshipers had a strong bond with dolphins.
Delgrath had gray hair but was clean-shaven. The retired life of a shopkeeper was not nearly as strenuous as that of an adventurer and his midriff was beginning to show it.
The ranger had blonde matted hair and blue eyes. He wore elven chain mail +2, and dark blue cloak. Delmair carried a short sword +1, a longsword +1, and a longbow plus fifteen arrows +2 in his quiver.
  The holy symbol of Demeter. 
This goddess generally appeared in the form of a beautiful, motherly woman that was draped in robes whose colors varied depending upon the season. A lush green hue for the spring and summer, a golden hue for autumn, and a brown or black hue in the winter. Her avatar also sometimes took the form of a mare.
Personality
Demeter was a generally benevolent deity and almost never held grudges.
Demetira was a short stout demihuman woman with red hair. Her body language, shrewd mannerisms, and wide smile telegraphed her mercantile trade.
The demon towered a full 18 feet (5.5 meters) in height, his body at once sinuous like that of a snake and powerful like that of a great ape. Two baleful baboon heads, with blue and red faces similar to those of mandrills, leered from atop his lumbering shoulders, from which two long tentacles writhed. His lower torso was saurian, like some great reptile with blue-green, scaly skin. He had an immense forked tail.

“
Dream of freedom. But remember, where they are dreams, there are always nightmares.

”
— Dendar the Night Serpent

Dendar was a colossal serpent who spent her time devouring the nightmares and fears of both mortals and immortals in hopes of bringing about the end of the world. She was some 300 feet long with blue-black scales, yellow eyes, and a huge maw filled with four fangs, spittle, and the bones of some of her former victims.
The Night Serpent was able to use her enormous size to crush victims below her bulk or to swallow them whole. Her forked tongue could be used to trip and entangle victims whom she could then inject with a sleep poison so she could absorb their nightmares.
History
Dendar was thought to have been created when the first mortal dream occurred, and she devoured the nightmares of the living ever since. Even the gods were not immune to her ravenous appetite for their dreams.
It was the Night Serpent who was thought to bring about the end of the Blue Age and usher in the Shadow Epoch by devouring the sun and plunging Toril into darkness and freezing temperatures.
When a revolt against Cyric was underway in the City of Strife, Gwydion the Quick challenged Dendar and managed to injure her with a legendary blade that had belonged to Alban Onire. In concession to this defeat, she unleashed the night-terrors of the Bone Castle's residents and thereby allowed the revolutionaries to storm the structure.
Derval Ironeater was a stout and muscular dwarf with dark red hair and a grown out beard. His body was decorated with the shining metal ink tattoos that were a family secret of the Clan Ironeater. Working tiredly in his smithy, he often smelled of body odor, something he referred to as "sweatin' like a pig'n the pot".
Despayr looked much like other black dragons of his age, bearing the distinctive curling horns and dark scales of its kin. However, Despayr was marked with numerous purple glowing runes all over his body. These markings were supposedly a gift from Shar that marked even the interior surface of the egg he hatched from.
Deudermont was a tall refined man. By his look, one would expect to find him amongst the lords and ladies during his shore time, but he cared about his crew. He typically spent his time keeping an eye on them, and making sure they stayed out of trouble.
Dhadius was an older male with dark skin and brown eyes. He had a long grey hair where he had not gone bald, and sported a similarly grey beard and mustache. He wore a red robe with golden embroidery.
The mage wore a dark tabard with glowing mystic signs, and carried a staff adorned with gems and a crystal sphere at one end. He had many rings on his fingers.
He had blue eyes and long blond hair and a full beard.
Dhusarra appeared to be a beautiful woman in her mid twenties. She had long black hair and eyes the color of chestnuts. She tended to dress in black silk tunics and breeches with black slippers. She also followed the common tradition of malarite priests by wearing trophies from slain foes, her apparent favourite being the complete pelt of a displacer beast made into a cloak/headdress.
  A young Diana. 
Diana was confident and smart. When the leader of their adventuring group, Hank, was not around, she would sometimes lead the others. She was an award-winning gymnast.
When grown up, the monk looked very similar. Diana kept similar apparel, from her top and shorts to her armband to her circlet. She even carried around a staff. The monk's hair, however, became longer and wavier.
Possessions
Diana fought with a javelin staff, which she also used to move around the battlefield. She wore a vest of escape, an amulet of natural armor +1, bracers of armor +3, and a ring of protection +1.
Dimswart was short and stout, with gray hair and sparkling blue eyes.
Dispater appeared as a 7 ft (2.1 m) tall, dark-haired humanoid with sable skin as cold and hard as iron. His infernal heritage was revealed in several aspects of figure: his glowing, red eyes, small horns, pointed tail, and cloven left hoof. The devilishly handsome archduke dressed in only the finest attire, such as his velvet gloves or red robes, and always wielded his mace-like rod.

   The regal Dispater with his servants in tow. 

A master strategist and expert in intrigue, Dispater had a well-earned reputation for being the most carefully calculating of the archdevils. His personal safety was always his top priority, and to catch him off-guard would be to outwit one of the most clever and resourceful beings in reality. During every step of his dominion he acted with patient cunning and unshakable discretion. Although he, like the other archdevils, schemed to take over the Nine Hells, he avoided taking big risks, not out of cowardice or insecurity but because of his unique view of the system.


“
The cosmos is a grand game. He who knows its rules the best shall win the prize. 

”
— Dispater

Dispater viewed reality from the perspective of a contestant in an enigmatic game governed by unclear rules, and he analyzed the worth of everything by how it might help him glean its true nature. By solving all the mysteries of the multiverse, he would gain the best chances of winning, allowing him to control the Nine Hells and then the rest of reality. He held numerous secret techniques in regards to mining and forging for example, making him the greatest weapons supplier in Hell and possibly the multiverse, and thus making him an important entity for the devils of the war-torn Avernus. The chance to learn a new secret was one of the few things that could compel him to act against the other archdevils.
Despite his analytical approach, Dispater still held diabolical charisma and carried himself with appreciable self-control. He was calm and composed at all times and was undeniably persuasive, delivering reasonable arguments with the courtesy of a true gentleman. His ability to withhold his anger even when it passionately burned not only made him a dangerously suave entity, but was a source of personal pride for him.
However, behind Dispater's sophisticated posturing and soft finery was nonetheless a tyrant's iron fist, much to the chagrin of predatory members of his court. He was a malicious manipulator whose gentle words were laced with deceit and his acts of supposed charity were always political in nature. Among the archdevils, he was notable for rarely trying to force others to do his bidding, preferring to twist them into unwittingly carrying out his will. Even when committing acts of unspeakable evil, his chivalrous façade never wavered, and if someone did manage to break his iron-clad stoicism he'd rather destroy them than leave them alive to potentially expose his folly.


“
To witness the greatest evil you will ever face, you need only look into a mirror.

”
— Dispater

More recently however, a flaw had appeared in Dispater's seemingly invincible defense; his never-ending vigilance had been slowly transitioning into anxiety and paranoia. Unless otherwise forced to, he never left his city or even his tower, fearing a fate like Geryon or Moloch before him. No one was trusted, surprises were, at best, unpleasant, and he went out of his way to make clear who was in charge. The gloomy archdevil's paranoia affected his every action and the ever-cautious Lord of the Nine had at least nine escape routes and back-up plans at any given time.
Djarrus had short blond hair and beard with fair skin. He was said to always have a "worried" look about him. He typically wore the latest Waterdhavian fashions over his slender build.
Domiel was a muscular tome archon standing twelve feet (3.7 meters) tall. He had massive, golden-feathered wings. His skin and eyes were also gold, but he had black hair. His eyes glowed like suns.
Domiel was sexless but had handsome masculine features. He never wore armor and went bare-chested.
  A form of Doresain on the Prime Material Plane. 
Doresain took the appearance of a ghoul whose eyes glowed with vile green energy. He had hoof-like feet, and wore an elegant coat over leather armor, which was adorned with skulls.
He was known for the creating hordes of ghouls, as well as maurezhi, which he made to lead legions of ghouls and ghasts to the Prime Material Plane.
History
Early history
Doresain was once a mortal elf and a worshiper of Orcus. In order to honor his deity, he feasted on the flesh of his fellow elves. Impressed by the raw and savage act, Orcus turned Doresain into the very first ghoul. Somes sages noted that Doresain, in some form, founded a kingdom and became the great ruler over the ghouls in the Underdark of Oerth.

Rise to Divinity
Doresain became a servitor to Orcus in the Abyss. There he was imbued with a shard Orcus' of divinity and became known as the Ghoul King. Here, he would create ghouls from the servants of Orcus. The King of Ghouls took command of the a layer of the Abyss, the White Kingdom.

Conquered
Despite his devotion, Doresain would not stay subservient to Orcus, though not by choice. Yeenoghu, the Gnoll Lord, would stage an invasion of Doresain's layer (421st layer of the Abyss), which was right next to Yeenoghu's own layer (422nd layer of the Abyss). Orcus did not intervene. Given no choice, Doresain became a vassal of Yeenoghu. Instead of willingly serving Yeenoghu, who had usurped his layer, Doresain instead turned to the Seldarine. They took pity on the demigod, who escaped the tyranny of Yeenoghu. In return, Doresain granted elves immunity to the paralytic touch of his minions. Later, Yeenoghu fully lost the ability to control Doresain.

Return to Orcus
As of the 15th century DR, Doresain retained the shard of divinity originally given to him by Orcus. He once again returned to Orcus' side, this time as his exarch, as well as his servitor. No longer holding his original layer, the White Kingdom, Doresain settled into the layer owned by Orcus, Thanatos, the 113th layer of the Abyss. Here, Doresain began to rule over part of Thanatos known as White Kingdom, which had the same name as his former home.
Worshipers
  The holy symbol of Doresain. 
Doresain had several followers, particularly undead and especially ghouls. He was known to venture to the Negative Energy plane and seek out necromancers that were meddling there. In turn, he would convert them into his favored minions, ghouls. The skull of a single ghoul was the holy symbol of the Doresain. Though many ghouls did not know of or worship deities, those that did were known to pay homage to Doresain.
The Temple of Filth, in the Shadowfell's version of Neverwinter, was once a shrine to Bhaal and Myrkul. It later became dedicated to Orcus and Doresain.
Rumors &amp; Legends
The undead of Evernight believed that the Demon Pit led to the White Kingdom in Thanatos.
Average-sized for a rock gnome, Dorgafal had tan skin, remarkably blue eyes and a shock of red hair. He typically wore comfortable, leather clothes which were accentuated by a striking mithral chain shirt.
Exuberant and animated with his gestures, Dorgafal had a wide vocal range which he used in full effect while conversing with others, or alone reciting lines. This often had others looking at him as though he were quite mad, when in fact he had a keen mind. He was a great judge of character, adept at determining when someone was anything but completely sincere with enough sense to not let on that he was aware.
He was also a skilled healer with a knack for getting in and and out of dangerous locations.
Dorina is a gaunt drow vampire with deep black skin and yellowish-white hair. She wears black elven chainmail and carries a heavy mace, which leaves her off-hand free to make life-draining attacks. Her face is beautiful, angular with something of a feral look about it. She snarls like a wild animal while fighting, revealing her sharp fangs and conveying an expression of being less coldly calculating and strategic than she actually is.
Being a dwarf, Dorna was petite and had short brown hair. She carried a short sword, battleaxe, and shortbow for weapons as well as thieves' tools.
Dornyn was very handsome and liked to dress with flair. He left his hair tousled.
Typical of his kind, he was physically powerful and could enter a berserk state.
The mage wore green wizard's robes. He was completely blind.
Doum'wielle had silvery skin. She was a battle mage.
Dragonbait stood at 4 feet and 10 inches (1.5 meters) in height, not counting his single head fin, the telltale sign of him being a finhead saurial. His low height was due to his posture, canted towards his hips, and balanced by a long thick tail. His mouth was short, thinner, and more rounded than that of lizardfolk. Inside it was a row of powerful sharp teeth in front of the maw, and bull molars at the back. His body was covered in small smooth green scales. His eyes were lizard-like and yellow. He bore shimmering magical tattoos - azure bonds, similar to those his sister had on her forearm. The tattoos were the byproduct of Alias' creation and originally were adorned by glyphs symbolizing Alias' masters, but after their demise, the bonds transformed into a ring of blue ivy.
Captain Dratharion was a muscular tall man with short blond hair, an eyepatch over his left eye, and an arrogant contemptuous smile. His one good eye was of a dark color. His facial expression and body language showed him as being a seasoned fighter.
The Oerthly wizard's known spells in the Realms were Drawmij's instant summons and Drawmij's marvelous shield.
Drizzt Do'Urden was a drow He stood about 5 feet and 4 inches (16 meters) tall and weighed about 130 pounds (59 kilograms) His handsome features were sharp and well proportioned and, like other drow, Drizzt's skin was black and his stark white hair was long, thick, and flowing His eyes were a lavender hue (quite different from the drow race's typical red, even when he used his infravision, which normally caused eyes to glow red) and seemed to glow fiercely when he was angry or determined
His vision was once accustomed to the pitch-blackness of the Underdark However, many years after Drizzt first ventured onto the surface, his eyes adapted to the bright light of the world above When using his infravision, the images, if held for a prolonged period of time, caused headaches and other symptoms of strain
He normally wore a forest-green cloak that was given to him by the Weeping Friars upon his departure to Icewind Dale, high black boots, and a necklace attached to a white unicorn head, the symbol of his goddess, Mielikki, the goddess of rangers This symbol was crafted for him by his good friend Regis from scrimshaw (the bone of the knucklehead trout found in Icewind Dale)
Drizzt Do'Urden was a drow. He stood about 5 feet and 4 inches (1.6 meters) tall and weighed about 130 pounds (59 kilograms). His handsome features were sharp and well proportioned and, like other drow, Drizzt's skin was black and his stark white hair was long, thick, and flowing. His eyes were a lavender hue (quite different from the drow race's typical red, even when he used his infravision, which normally caused eyes to glow red) and seemed to glow fiercely when he was angry or determined.
His vision was once accustomed to the pitch-blackness of the Underdark. However, many years after Drizzt first ventured onto the surface, his eyes adapted to the bright light of the world above. When using his infravision, the images, if held for a prolonged period of time, caused headaches and other symptoms of strain.
He normally wore a forest-green cloak that was given to him by the Weeping Friars upon his departure to Icewind Dale, high black boots, and a necklace attached to a white unicorn head, the symbol of his goddess, Mielikki, the goddess of rangers. This symbol was crafted for him by his good friend Regis from scrimshaw (the bone of the knucklehead trout found in Icewind Dale).
The dwarf had a braided white beard, balding hair and half moon spectacles. 
He had long scraggily black hair in his human form, and black fur in his hybrid form.
The hobgoblin had a tattooed face and upper body, brown eyes, and long dark hair, some of which was tied in a bun. Ragzlin wore a sash that was secured with rope around his pink-red muscular body, and was fastened by a metal insignia.
The cultist appeared to lead the other goblinoids that worshiped the Absolute, and so Dror Ragzlin was known as the Warlord of the Absolute. The skilled ritualist was able to speak with the dead.
She had dark eyes and flowing black hair. She wore a scanty gown, the front of which appeared to be made of glowing animated flowers.
After his transformation into a silveraith, Duneth barely resembled his previous self. He appeared as a vaguely skeletal being wrapped in wisps of glowing blue energy that trailed around him much like a wizard's robe.
Like all dwarves, Durlag was short and stocky, but also immensely strong. He had bright orange hair and a long bushy beard.
Durrusk typically wore the guise of merchants that it had murdered. When dealing with agents or hirelings, the form chosen was intended to be seen by any Waterdhavian spies that might be encountered, for the purpose of sowing confusion and doubt about the loyalty of the servants working for the noble merchant families that were enemies of the Great Goblet.
Durwyn was a giant among his peers. 6 feet and 7 inches (2 meters) tall, his shoulders and limbs were bulging with muscles. His coarse blond hair was kept short to keep it out of the eyes. His wide face has squared with the jaw that sat atop a thick and muscular neck. Many noticed his kind eyes that turned into fierce orbs of determination in battle.
Eachthighern's avatar was a powerfully strong and majestic, white-haired winged unicorn or horned pegasus. He had gray spots on his underbelly and gray fringes in his beard and mane.
Eadred was fairly handsome and muscular.
Efrin Hammerborn was a brown-haired stout dwarf who wore a chainmail and was armed with a battleaxe.
Egbert Dulkaster was a middle-aged male always dressed in well-tailored expensive elegant silk clothes of the latest fashion. He had poshly-groomed mustache with graying silvery strands of hair.
Egbert Dulkaster's voice was described as slippery, reminiscent of a melting icicle, dripping with water.
Eight wore a leather helmet and a crude cuirass that was fastened by a rope.


“
His face was suffused with awe, and he gazed at the ebony goddess—for that she certainly was—as if she was the answer to that question which every soul felt, but no words could frame.
”
— Evermeet: Island of Elves
As an avatar, Eilistraee appeared as a drow female of glowing beauty. She was tall (9 feet/2.7 meters in height) and lithe, with graceful, strong limbs and a glossy, obsidian-dark skin. She usually appeared unclad, cloaked only by her ankle-length hair that shone with a bright silvery hue, and by motes of moonlight that were ever-dancing about her body.
Her face bore a certain similarity to that of her mother, Lolth, as it possessed delicately sculpted features and shape, but her eyes were large, with irises that held the shifting hint of blue of a moonstone, and expressive of her mood or emotions.
When Eilistraee spoke, her voice always carried a soft musicality that made mortals instinctively drawn to it. Such attraction didn't cloud their minds, nor was of magical origin—it was as simple as the sound of a beautiful song.
Overall, the Dark Maiden's appearance inspired utter awe and astonishment, as well as emotions so deep to move mortals to tears. Those who contemplated and listened to her felt as if they had found the answer to all that their soul ever longed for. However, upon her leaving, they would experience a feeling of deep loss, or even desolation, though only for a brief time (as Sharlario Moonflower and his son, Cornaith, felt when the Dark Dancer manifested to them, warning them of the dangers of Ilythiir).
Personality


“
One moment she was a carefree child dancing like a moonbeam or running like a silver wolf through the forest; the next moment, she was either as seductive as a siren or as serious as a dwarven god.
”
— Araushnee, on Eilistraee.
Due to a history of grief and losses, and to the suffering of her people, melancholy and sadness were deeply rooted in Eilistraee's heart. It was a hard battle to endure, one that could weigh her down. However, it had also taught her to search for and nurture beauty everywhere, even in places like the Underdark, where it didn't seem to belong. Eilistraee fought her melancholy by striving to bring hope and joy where there was sorrow, so that no moment was lost to gloom, and to make life flourish wherever she went. She learned to find happiness in peace and arts, especially music and dance; in simple things like seeing artists composing and performing, craftsmen at their work, people doing acts of kindness, and lovers in tender moments. She especially took delight in helping the needy in various practical ways, with a soft spot for outcasts, and in blessing artists with sudden bursts of creativity and inspiration.
As a young goddess, Eilistraee was a free spirit, with a moody and wild side and an unpredictable temper. Even as she matured, these traits never really left her: she had a fiery streak and was prone to wild action, especially in protection of her faithful when they were harmed. The evil that was inflicted upon—and perpetuated by—most drow caused a burning anger within her, one that could cause her to lash out, but she was comforted that some worked their way free of the Spider Queen's web.
The Dark Maiden was particularly close to her people. Aside from providing practical help in their everyday life, she was known to offer comfort and support in various ways, including listening to them as they let out or vented their personal emotions and experiences (see Activities). When the right time came, she also personally accompanied her followers who didn't die in battle to their afterlife in a moving celebration known as the Last Dance. According to Rowaan Vrinn, Eilistraee didn't test her followers, as the challenges of life were enough of a test themselves. She valued the intent behind their actions more than the actual success.



“
The Dark Lady smiles on those who see the deeper beauty within.
”
— Lords of Waterdeep

Though focused on the drow, Eilistraee accepted folk of all races who danced along her path, who delighted in life and in the free-form expression of it in all its forms. She fought so that all races could live peacefully together, helping and accepting each other despite their differences, and strongly believed in the possibility of redemption for those who had fallen to evil, especially the drow.
Activities
See also: Eilistraee's teachings


“
Rare is the individual—dark elf or not—who appreciates that Eilistraee is forging her own path, one that welcomes beings of all races who revel in life and the free form expression of all that entails.
”
— Demihuman Deities

Eilistraee took the role of a nurturing and protecting mother-goddess for the whole drow race, working to lead them out of the Underdark and back to the surface world, in the great forests they'd left behind long before.
When she was a young goddess, the Dark Maiden chose to share the dark elves' exile, so that she could be by their side when they would need her the most, to provide a light in the darkness and a beacon of hope in the difficult times that—as she had foreseen—would come upon them. As such, Eilistraee taught her children kindness and love, showed them the freedom and joy of life that they were denied, and all around cared after them. Even though she couldn't promise safety, she strove to protect and help them strengthen, grow, and flourish in a surface world that had become hostile to them, but that was their rightful home. She aided them in hunting, swordcraft, and other practical matters of their everyday lives, in immediately useful ways.
Eilistraee's help could come in the form of direct action—and she was not unwilling to retaliate in protection of her followers, if the situation called for it—but she far preferred her assistance to not be intrusive, or even openly revealing of her involvement. In fact, it wasn't Eilistraee's way to intrude in her people's lives, because she felt that a forceful interference would prevent them from making their own choices. On the contrary, she strove to empower each drow to find their own path in the world, and did so by watching over them in their "journey", and by offering them the tools to travel it themselves and overcome its challenges—both large and daunting, and the smaller ones posed by daily life. For example, she could subtly lead a drow braving the surface to a community of her followers to find a sense of belonging, support, or even a home. Her hunting horn sounded to hearten her faithful and scare away dangerous creatures which threatened them. Her song, or her silvery radiance and silvery moths, guided drow who were lost in the darkness or in the Underdark to a safe place, or yet lightened childbirths that occurred in the dark, and hers was the force that brought a stag within the reach of hungry drow.
Likewise, Eilistraee intervened when her people needed visible confort or emotional help. She could make them know that they were not alone, and that someone was watching over them, when they felt lost (usually through her own light, or as a protecting, shadowy, tall female dark elf that danced with the drow). She could provide them with insight and inspiration to reach an important goal, or even lend her magic, if needed, to break any shackle preventing them from freely embracing the path they wanted to walk, or so that they didn't have to give themselves to Lolth in exchange for help when they felt overwhelmed (an example was the situation that saw her helping Liriel Baenre to heal her companion, Fyodor, from a fatal wound). Furthermore, in the daily ritual known as the Evensong, Eilistraee would "listen" to the (usually) wordless messages of her followers as they let out the emotions, experiences, and reflections gathered during the day.
The Dark Maiden sang her call to all dark elves—from the highest matron mother to the lowest male slave—sending them dreams or visions, showing them a different, better life, and the beauty of the world (especially when they were close to the surface). Lolth was powerless to stop these visions, as too much interference from two goddesses could easily bring a mortal's mind to insanity, and despite her continued efforts to suppress any knowledge of her daughter, the drow definitely came to "feel" the Dark Dancer at some point in their lives, with varying reactions. 
While many would either not understand their dreams and emotions, or chose to ignore, disbelieve, or reject them, many others secretly yearned for the goddess and all that she wished for them. In fact, it was not unusual for them—if they thought they could get away with it, without the knowledge of a priestess of Lolth—to choose to spare the life of a worshiper of Eilistraee, decline to tell other drow what they'd seen of their activities, or linger to watch one of their dances rather than breaking it up. That said, despite those feelings, not many drow could find the strength and resources to make the final step and leave their past behind to cleave to Eilistraee on their own. Furthermore, the Dark Maiden's efforts were opposed by the power of Lolth and the other evil drow gods, and what she could do was very limited.
Despite her focus on the drow, Eilistraee took to heart the cause of aiding the needy wherever and whenever possible, no matter their race, gender, or strength. She believed in offering kindness, shelter, and acceptance to anyone not working evil, especially if outcasts. She and her church also worked to spread joy and merriment, and to bring confort and hope to those who were taken by sorrow. Finally, the Dark Maiden was, among the other things, a goddess of beauty; as such, she was known for her efforts to nurture and spread enthusiasm for arts—especially music and dance—and for blessing artists and bards with bursts of creativity and inspiration.
Powers
Manifestations
   Eilistraee watches over a gathering of her faithful. 
Her most common sign was a silvery radiance (sometimes accompanied by a snatch of song or a few echoing notes of a harp) that could also take the form of a handful of dancing moonbeams or moon-motes. Eilistraee used this light to assist her people: she was known to use it as a beacon guiding those lost in the woods, to shine a light on something dropped in the dark, to illuminate a dark place where women gave birth, or to generally guide those who saw the manifestation. She also used it to bless a worshiper in various ways. Swords enveloped by the silvery light could not be broken or damaged and struck with maximum force. Living creatures would always react first in battle, could better evade or withstand blows, could strike more accurately, and could wound even creatures that needed magic to be harmed.
Her song was another iconic manifestation, and the Dark Maiden's way of calling the drow to her, luring them towards a different life. However and whenever the goddess appeared, her song was heard. It was a tune of unearthly beauty, moving many to tears but also a sweet and tempting lullaby, or the soothing voice of a loving mother. At times, Eilistraee would appear in person, to show her favor, give a blessing, or hearten her followers. Mortals lucky enough to see her would always hear her tune, but usually only glimpsed her from afar, balanced atop a distant hillock or battlement, with her silver hair flowing behind her. At times, she could also appear during celebrations dedicated to her, leaping inside the flames of bonfires, or manifest herself by night, cloaked and cowled and with her radiance dimmed, to travelers in the woodlands, usually to test their kindness.
Sometimes, Eilistraee would use her radiance to bless the faithful or even non-faithful who decided to honor her with a solitary dance, turning the creature's hair into a mane of silvery, dancing flames. This could last as long as a month, or even be permanent. She would also very often manifest when one of her priests led a new convert to her faith in prayer, which was itself an offering to Eilistraee.
On rare occasions, she could decide to grant a lay follower who nevertheless did her work with the temporary ability to manifest her moonfire. This could be to show her blessing or support, or simply to provide some light. However, the bearer had no control over the moonfire's duration, intensity, or location—such things were solely up to the goddess.
The sound of a high and distant hunting horn was another sign associated to the Dark Maiden. She was known to conjure it to rally or hearten her followers, or to scare off bandits or orc raiders, who would believe reinforcements were coming for those harassed. When there were no enemies about, worshipers took the sound of the horn to mean there was someone close by they needed to aid.
Eilistraee demonstrated her favor and happiness through the discovery of particular minerals or gems (like mithral, moonbars, moonstones, and silver) or with a sudden inspiration to write a beautiful song or poem, or to craft a magnificent sword for those who had the ability.
However, the Dark Dancer could also let her displeasure be known, and did so by making a cold breeze rise, by making the disfavored ones feel a chill in their hands or feet, through a sudden lack of inspiration or talent in any form of art, or through the failure to catch anything while hunting.

Abilities
Eilistraee's identity as a nurturing and artistic goddess showed in her magic and skills. Despite having access to all kinds of magic, she focused on powers related to nature, life, creation, and enchantment. She was also an excellent crafter and weaponsmith, and could freely create almost any magical item pertaining to beauty, music, moonlight, hunting, or swordwork..
Furthermore, before being a warrior or a huntress, Eilistraee was first and foremost a bard and an artist. She was a sublime dancer and singer, a terrific acrobat, and a brilliant musician. Her art had the power to elicit intense emotions in her allies and foes alike (to the point of sometimes leaving them stunned), or to inspire courage, dispel uncertainty and hopelessness, and enhance her allies' focus. She delighted in performing, and such was the beauty she created, that it could even move beings who were normally incapable of feeling emotions, or that could shrug them off due to training, magic, or nature.
Music and song held a particular meaning, as they were the intimate nature of Eilistraee's iconic magic, the Spellsong. Its melody was capable of physically healing, creating, and protecting, and allowed its practitioners to travel to places far away and see the world. Through the Spellsong, Eilistraee taught to listen to the songs of distant lands, the melody that a place and its people "sung" when lit by the moon, and to travel to such places along beams of moonlight, summoned by singing and dancing to its rhythm.
That said, while her warrior skills came second to her bardic magic and artitic abilities, Eilistraee could indeed fight. She was a protectress to her people, who wielded her bastard sword combining the agility of her dance with the lethality of her swordplay. Her hunting skills and precision as an archer (though she abandoned the bow after she was tricked into nearly slaying her father with it) were also undeniable, like her knowledge in matters of magic, nature, and faith.
Finally, along with all the standard powers and godly senses of a deity of her rank, the Dark Dancer could instantly become aware of threats posed to good-aligned drow, to her followers, or to drow thinking of rejecting the faith of the deities of the Dark Seldarine, but only if their number was equal to or greater than five hundred.

Eilistraee's Avatar
   Eilistraee's avatar was often seen dancing against the full moon. Eilistraee's avatar appeared as the goddess herself, described above.
She could use any kind of spell from any school or sphere of magic, but preferred those from the animal, plant, healing, creation, and charm/enchantment spheres. She had continuous true seeing, enabling her to see all things as they truly were, whether invisible, disguise, blurred, or hidden. She could instantly, at will, unleash nine silvery magic missiles (more potent against evil) or turn spells back against their casters; could levitate at will; and quickly regenerate wounds or even lost limbs. Also at will, she could conjure a silvery light, dancing lights, or moonfire and make the sounds of flutes, harps, or horns. Her music had the power to repel evil beings and undead, briefly stun a creature, and unlock things as a knock spell.
In battle, she could wield either two identical singing swords of dancing +3, or a single blade, the Moonsword, a +5 dancing keen bastard sword. Only enchanted weapons could harm her.
When she wished to appear clothed, Eilistraee's avatar could manifest wearing deep brown leather boots that allowed her to move in total silence and without leaving any trace at will. It combined the powers of the boots of elvenkind, boots of varied tracks, and boots of the north. She could also wear a dappled green cloak that shifted its color according to the surrounding environment (combining a cloak of elvenkind and a ring of chameleon power, rendering the goddess' avatar invisible in natural areas).
History
Eilistraee was born the daughter of Corellon Larethian, head of the elven gods, and Araushnee the Weaver (who later took the name of Lolth), a minor elven goddess. She was the sister of Vhaeraun.

Exile
The commonly accepted version of the story or myth of how Eilistraee came to her role in the Dark Seldarine ran as follows.
Around −30,000 DR, ambitious and traitorous, envious of the authority that her consort Corellon had over the elven people, Araushnee (with the cooperation of her son, Vhaeraun) gathered a host of deities who were opposed to the Seldarine, tricking them into assaulting Arvandor in an attempt to overthrow Corellon. The Weaver also tried to seduce Fenmarel Mestarine, elven god of outcasts and rebels, to join her in the imminent rebellion. As her adulterous lover, he was initially tempted by her advances, but he ultimately declined the offer.
The only deity of Arvandor who took steps to stop Araushnee's plan before it could unfold was Sehanine Moonbow. Through her connection to moonlight, she had in fact witnessed the Weaver crafting a scabbard meant for Corellon, imbued with cursed magic devised to bring defeat in battle to its owner. The item had been crafted by Araushnee before a meeting between Corellon and Gruumsh that was supposedly meant to establish the terms of a truce, but that in truth she had orchestrated with the orc god with the purpose of slaying her lover. This attempt was however a failure, and the sheath was lost in the battle, only to be later retrieved by Sehanine. The Lady of Dreams—-aware of Araushnee's betrayal, but knowing how important her love was to Corellon—tried to dissuade her from such madness, but the Weaver reacted violently, defeating and imprisoning the moon goddess with the aid of Vhaeraun. With the only meaningful obstacle out of their way, Araushnee and Vhaeraun proceeded with their plan, working to lead Eilistraee to find the cursed item. They exploited the Dark Maiden's adoration for her father, knowing that she would have been more than eager to search for the sheath, and overjoyed to return such a prized possession to him, making her the perfect scapegoat.
When the attack began, Eilistraee (whose skills in archery, scouting, and hunting were widely known among the Seldarine) was the first to spot the threat, allowing her father and the other elven deities to prepare a defense. The Dark Maiden took part in the battle, enthusiastic and proud to be able to fight by her father's side in defense of their home. In the heat of the battle that ensued, when Ghaunadaur made its entrance, Corellon painfully realized that the threat had to have come from within the Seldarine itself, as a being like Ghaunadaur could only enter Arvandor if a true evil already lurked within the plane. His sorrow grew even more intense when he realized that his lover, Araushnee, was behind it, as she stood observing the battle in triumph. Seeing the distraction and shock of the elven lord, an ogre god took advantage of the situation and charged towards his position: he almost managed to end his life, but Eilistraee acted swiftly to defend her father, loosing an arrow at the charging ogre-god. The young goddess didn't know, however, that the scabbard that Araushnee had crafted for Corellon's sword was imbued with a curse which magically drew the shaft of the arrow, changing its path to instead pierce his chest. Seeing the scene from the skies, Aerdrie Faenya, unaware of the deception, struck the still-shocked Eilistraee down, incapacitating her. Despite Corellon being almost fatally wounded, the battle was ultimately won by the forces of the Seldarine and, as soon as the last invader was driven from Arvandor, the elven deities—still unbelieving that the Dark Maiden could act against her father—gathered around the unconscious elven lord, trying to aid him and save his life.
It was then that Araushnee, faking grief, put in motion the second part of her plan (as she had intended for the invaders to be defeated). Pretending to do her best to save her lover, she tried to use a concoction of poisonous herbs, prepared by Eilistraee for the arrows of the mortal dark elves, to finish Corellon, passing it for a healing elixir made up of water from Elysium and healing herbs. She hoped that if her treachery was uncovered, she could still blame Eilistraee, as the potion had been her work. This plan didn't go well: Sehanine Moonbow had in fact managed to free herself, and intervened in time to save Corellon (together with Aerdrie Faenya and Hanali Celanil, in the form of the triune goddess Angharradh) and free Eilistraee from guilt.
After the elven lord regained consciousness and the truth was made clear, he had to take the painful decision to banish all the dark elven deities for their roles in the war against the Seldarine. Eilistraee was cleared from any wrongdoing, considered only an unwitting participant, but regardless she insisted upon this punishment: she foresaw that the dark elves would need a beacon of good within their reach and her help and support in the times to come. Reluctant yet proud, Corellon conceded her wish.
After very nearly slaying her own father with a misplaced arrow, Eilistraee swore never to use ranged weaponry again, lest her missile go astray. Thereafter, the sword was the only weapon for her.

Wandering
After her exile, the Dark Maiden wandered Toril, the same world that the elves had chosen as their home. For centuries, she fought Vhaeraun's corruption of the Ilythiiri, thwarting his efforts to gain influence over all the dark elves of the south. Eilistraee had in fact foreseen that the influence of Vhaeraun (and of her mother, whom she knew would later come to Toril), would have led the Tel'Quessir to war against each other, and she worked to prevent that.
When Sharlario and Cornaith Moonflower traveled towards Ilythiir as representatives of the elves, to establish diplomatic ties with the dark elves there, Eilistraee personally appeared to both of them. The Dark Dancer came to seek friends in the two elves, and to warn them of the danger represented by Vhaeraun and his followers, and of the strife and conflict that they (and even darker deities) would have brought to the People. Both elves offered to become her followers, to support the goddess in her struggle, but—although honored—Eilistraee kindly refused, as she only wanted the elves to be aware, and as she feared that soon her own people would become exiles like she was.
Eilistraee eventually managed to gain some followers in Ilythiir, but her strength wasn't enough for her to prevail. On the contrary, she and her followers became hunted by the Masked Lord and the Ilythiiri, and the conflict allowed Ghaunadaur to rise and gain influence over the dark elves, posing an even greater threat than Vhaeraun. Lolth's attention turned to the dark elves of Toril only later, when the moon elf Kethryllia Amarillis intruded into the Demonweb Pits, reminding the Spider Queen of a way to regain more of her divinity by having the surface elves worship her again. Her power started to rise after the First Sundering and the death of many Vhaeraunites in the destruction of Atorrnash, which contributed to the decline of the Masked Lord, and the further marginalization of Eilistraee.
After dark and green elven refugees from Aryvandaar founded Miyeritar in −18,800 DR, the Dark Maiden's faith concentrated there, as the goddess became a major patroness of the nation, which would flourish and grow into an important center of arts and magic. However, the following centuries inflicted blow after blow to Eilistraee and her followers. During the Crown Wars (−12,000 DR to −9000 DR), she could only mitigate the growing control Lolth, Vhaeraun, and Ghaunadaur had over the dark elves. In −10,500 DR, the Dark Disaster—a magical cataclysm unleashed by the elves of Aryvandaar—caused the death of many of her people in Miyeritar, severely weakening the goddess' power. Meanwhile, Lolth and Ghaunadaur gained great influence among the dark elves, culminating in −10,000 DR, when the Seldarine and the elves gathered at the Elven Court cursed and exiled all dark elves (including Eilistraee's followers), turning them into drow. This harsh punishment was motivated by the corruption that Lolth and the balor Wendonai were spreading among the noble houses of Ilythiir, and by the worship of Lolth that had begun to spread among the Ilythiiri. Ultimately, Eilistraee could not rival Lolth's power, and the Spider Queen became the major deity of the dark elves. After this event, Lolth's and Ghaunadaur's persecution of worshipers of rival deities further marginalized the influence of the Lady of the Dance for millennia.
Eilistraee found an unlikely protégé in her nephew-god, Selvetarm. He was the son of Vhaeraun and Zandilar the Dancer (who would later become one with Bast, forming Sharess), but had spurned both his parents and walked alone for centuries, neither good nor evil. After Eilistraee found and befriended him, Selvetarm came to admire her goodness and appreciate her teachings, and the two grew close to each other. A hope was sparked in the Dark Maiden's heart: that her nephew could become an exemplar, and aid her in healing the rift between the dark elves and the Seldarine. However, said hope and friendship ended in the late 3rd century after Dalereckoning, when Lolth tricked Selvetarm into slaying Zanassu (a demon lord whom Lolth considered her rival, as he claimed to have power over spiders), by promising him that doing so would gain him the admiration of the Dark Maiden. But Selvetarm was overwhelmed by the demonic essence and he fell wholly to evil, ending up as Lolth's champion. Spiteful Lolth did this to prevent her daughter gaining an ally among the Dark Seldarine.
Despite all these setbacks, Eilistraee kept fighting to bring her hope to the drow and lead them back to their rightful place in the light. It was only in the centuries after Dalereckoning that her faith regained a degree of prominence in Faerûn.

The Time of Troubles
In 1358 DR, when all the deities of the various pantheons were forced to walk Toril in their mortal avatar forms by Ao's decree (an event known as the Time of Troubles, or the "Avatar Crisis"), Eilistraee too was affected. She appeared to mortals at least once during the Time of Troubles. The Lady of Dance manifested in the High Forest, in the location that became known as Darkmaiden's Leap, a site of pilgrimage sacred to her. The goddess ventured there to rescue a group of drow refugees and lead them to the safety of the temple of the Promenade.

Post-Avatar Crisis
During the 1360s DR, Eilistraee took to heart the young drow Liriel Baenre and her travels on the surface. While Lolth constantly tried to claim Liriel as her own chosen, Eilistraee kept subtly singing her call to the girl, guiding her and letting her channel her magic on multiple occasions, in order to help her find her own path. For example, the emotion of Eilistraee's dance, and that of her moon magic, helped Liriel to envision and create her personal rune to carve in the Yggdrasil's Child—the goal of her quest, that would have allowed her to preserve her drow magic (and therefore, to her, identity) on the surface, and which also granted all drow the same ability (although that effect was not something that Liriel had intended to happen). Eilistraee's Moonsong, the ability to hear the song of people and places lit by the moon, guided Liriel to free the elven souls that had been trapped in a magical tapestry by the illithid Vestress of the Kraken Society, and made her feel a connection to the followers of the goddess. The Dark Maiden also helped the young drow bring back her lover Fyodor from the brink of death. and Thorn—Eilistraee's own champion—assisted her in her travel to Rashemen. All in all, Eilistraee spoke to Liriel's emotional side, providing her a sense of sisterhood, and reminding her of the beauty and joy that could be found in life.
At the beginning of the 1370s DR, the cosmology rearranged under the World Tree model. After her millennia-long exile, Eilistraee was allowed to move her divine realm, and the souls of all her followers (including drow), back to Arvandor. She kept a small realm in the Demonweb Pits, but it remained mostly empty, and Eilistraee herself very rarely visited it. It wasn't known whether moving from Ysgard to Arvandor happened out of material necessity, or was the first sign of her efforts towards reconciliation bearing results.

War of the Spider Queen
In the Year of Wild Magic, 1372 DR, the goddess Lolth went into a state of hibernation, a period called the Silence of Lolth, with Selvetarm protecting her, as part of a plan to increase her power and separate her divine realm, the Demonweb Pits, from the Abyss. For about one year, she stopped granting spells to her followers and became effectively inactive. During this time, Lolth's absence led a considerable number of her followers to seek alternatives in the other deities of the Dark Seldarine and this resulted in Eilistraee gaining followers and influence. She chose one of her new converts, Halisstra Melarn, to wield the artifact known as the Crescent Blade, which could be used to kill Lolth before her awakening (in 1373 DR). Halisstra went on a mission to the Demonweb Pits, leading two fellow priestesses of the Dark Maiden, Uluyara and Feliane. However, after being defeated at the hand of Quenthel Baenre, Halisstra ultimately decided to betray Eilistraee and convert back to the awakened Lolth. The Spider Queen punished her former heresy by turning her into the Lady Penitent, whose duty was to hunt drow who tried to turn to other faiths. The Crescent Blade was left broken, lying in the Demonweb Pits.
Even after Lolth emerged from her Silence, the deities of the Dark Seldarine continued battling for supremacy over the drow or, in Eilistraee's case, to free them from Lolth's renewed grasp.
Lolth convinced Eilistraee to play a divine game of sava, with the stakes being the players' lives and therefore the very fate of the drow. The Dark Maiden accepted, seeing an opportunity to finally end the torment that Lolth had been inflicting on the drow for millennia and to set her people free, and put herself on the line for them. After the end of the Silence, working on the Spider Queen's side, Selvetarm ordered his Judicators to initiate a series of attacks against the shrines and temples of Eilistraee. At the same time, Vhaeraun was plotting against his sister and working to devise a method to slay her. As a result, his worshipers planned to cast a High Magic spell to allow Vhaeraun to enter his sister's realm and assassinate her. However, that kind of magic was very taxing, and would have required the sacrifice of the souls of the casters. Because of that, the followers of the Masked Lord started to kill various priestesses of Eilistraee and collect their souls in their masks (a technique which they called "soultheft"), in order to use them as a fuel for the ritual.
Eventually, Qilué Veladorn, leader of the church of Eilistraee, managed to learn about their plan and started working to disrupt it, alongside the drow mage Q'arlynd Melarn (who had turned to the faith of Eilistraee). Q'arlynd's task was to take the place of one of the Vhaerunites and try to disrupt their ritual. Meanwhile, Eilistraee sought to recover the lost Crescent Blade; to that purpose, Cavatina Xarann, a Darksong Knight serving the Dark Dancer, went on a mission into the Demonweb Pits, where the sword was seen last.
With the Dark Maiden and her followers struggling against multiple fronts, Selvetarm made another move, trying to strike at the heart of his aunt's forces, as his followers attacked the Promenade of the Dark Maiden. However, his attempts ultimately failed: on Nightal 20 of the Year of Risen Elfkin, 1375 DR, the defenders of the Promenade (led by Qilué) bested the assailants, while Cavatina killed the demigod himself in the Demonweb Pits (with the help of the Lady Penitent), using the Crescent Blade, which she had recovered almost intact (but which was no longer the original artifact, and had become a vessel for the balor Wendonai).
On the same date, Q'arlynd failed to accomplish his mission and Vhaeraun managed to enter his sister Eilistraee's realm and attempted to assassinate her. Despite that, the Dark Maiden did not receive her brother unprepared, as she had been warned by her priestesses about his intentions. No mortal actually witnessed the battle that ensued, so what happened remained largely unknown. However, Eilistraee emerged from the battle alive, suggesting that Vhaeraun had failed and perished at the hand of his sister. Chaos and despair spread among the followers of the Masked Lord, but some thought that their god was still alive, and that the twins had a plan and agreed to merge and work together against their mother for a time. Others were convinced that Vhaeraun had succeeded and was disguised as Eilistraee. Either way, it was certain that after the event, Eilistraee was changed: she held both her brother's and her own portfolios, she gained the title of "Masked Lady", and caused her followers and Vhaeraun's to cooperate, albeit uneasily.
In the Year of the Haunting, 1377 DR, Kiaransalee and her cultists initiated hostilities against the Masked Lady and her followers. Furthermore, the church of the Revenancer tried to call an army of undead from Death Heart, a city on the Negative Energy Plane, by feeding the faerzress with negative energy. As a byproduct, this increased the drow's urge to go back to the Underdark, which clashed with the Dark Maiden's goal of leading her people back to the surface. Eilistraee answered to that through a High Magic ritual performed by Q'arlynd Melarn, which erased the demigoddess' name from the minds of every Torillian being, including Kiaransalee herself, leading to her disappearance. Her temple was also destroyed, and her followers' plan thwarted.
Following those events, by Eilistraee's will, Qilué began helping Q'arlynd Melarn prepare a High Magic spell meant to sever the link between the faerzress and the drow who didn't worship Lolth, and make it easier to lead them away from the Underdark and to the surface. Meanwhile, Qilué also took possession of the Wendonai-possessed Crescent Blade, and hatched a plan to kill the demon (whom Lolth had originally used to corrupt the drow into following her) by taking its essence into her and destroying it with Mystra's silver fire in the place where he had been summoned for the first time. If successful, she would have freed the drow from him, but in the time that it took her to prepare for the plan, his presence would affect and influence her.
In 1379 DR, Ghaunadaur joined the conflict between Lolth and Eilistraee, focusing his attention on the latter (who, through her chosen, had previously banished The Elder Eye's avatar from Toril). As a result, with the help of some traitors among the former Vhaeraunites who had joined the Masked Lady, his cultists managed to attack the Promenade. Their goal was to destroy the prison—guarded by the followers of Eilistraee—that prevented their god from creeping into Toril. The attempt failed, but the inhabitants of the temple, and the followers of the goddess who used the Moonspring portals to aid them, suffered heavy losses.
In Flamerule of the Year of the Lost Keep, 1379 DR, the High Magic spell that Q'arlynd Melarn and Qilué had prepared was cast with the intervention of Eilistraee (although the goddess would withdraw her presence early during the ritual). Qilué was supposed to be the main caster, but she had realized that she couldn't have taken part in the spell, for Wendonai's influence would have compromised it, and had assigned her role to Q'arlynd instead. Despite being meant to sever the link between the faerzress and the drow, the ritual also transformed hundreds among the followers of Eilistraee (who, as lesser deity, had at least a few thousands of worshipers) and those drow who were not tainted by Wendonai's blood, back to their original dark elven form.
At the same time, in order to enact the plan to destroy Wendonai, Qilué and her sister Laeral Silverhand traveled to the only place where such a task could be accomplished: the royal court of ancient Ilythiir, where the balor had been summoned for the first time. Fearing that Qilué would lose her life in the ritual, Laeral froze her in time and went to seek help, but in the meantime the drow priestess was found by the Lady Penitent, who took hold of the Crescent Blade. Eilistraee inhabited the body of her chosen to try to save her, free Halisstra's from Lolth's influence, and offer relief from torment. However, Wendonai tricked the Lady Penitent into killing Qilué and the goddess before that could happen, making her believe that the chosen and her deity were actually Lolth. After that, the souls of the newly transformed dark elves among the faithful of Eilistraee were allowed by Corellon Larethian to enter Arvandor (even though Eilistraee's realm, which continued existing, had already been moved to Arvandor almost a decade before, alongside the souls of her followers within it). Despite Corellon's decision, Qilué's soul didn't go to his realm in Arvandor, and became a Weaveghost instead.

Return
Eilistraee managed to return to life during the event known as the Second Sundering, in Flamerule, 1489 DR. The goddess took the title of Dark Maiden once again, as her brother too had returned and taken back his portfolio. Despite Q'arlynd's ritual, the returned Dark Dancer was still a drow goddess and most of her followers drow. She also gained the portfolio of freedom, in addition to her traditional portfolios of beauty, dance, song, moonlight, swordwork, and hunting.
After their reappearance, Eilistraee and Vhaeraun reached a reciprocal understanding, and the enmity between them was no more. Both siblings personally let their return be known, manifesting through their avatars to their followers, who enthusiastically spread the word. Eilistraee, in particular, was seen dancing and speaking to mortals in many places, especially along the Sword Coast. For example, the citizens of Waterdeep witnessed the Dark Dancer, as she danced in the moonlight, near the walls of the city, up the road to Amphail. This led many moondancers to the City of Splendors, with the goal of creating a shrine to their goddess (the Dancing Haven) within its walls.
Eilistraee's alliance with Mystra continued after the return of the two goddesses, as the Lady of Mysteries chose to share the Weave with the Dark Maiden and other allied deities (like Azuth). This was meant to both stabilize the Weave, and prevent it from crumbling due to disruptive actions (like Lolth's failed plan to build her own Demon Weave by parasitizing the original), or attempts on Mystra's own life (like that which caused the Spellplague). Furthermore, while Eilistraee's and Mystra's shared chosen, Qilué, remained a Weaveghost, Eilistraee didn't want to give up on her, and made sure that her priestess had full access to her divine realm.
Disguised as a human, she took the form of a middle-aged Chultan woman, 5.5 feet (1.7 meters) tall and 110 pounds (50 kilograms), and wearing light-blue robes. She had a walking stick carved to resemble a stylized couatl.
Elaith Craulnober was a tall elven noble in his prime with sharp, handsome features and a graceful build. He was 5'8" tall. Elaith had silver hair and the pale skin common to his people. His eyes were the color of amber. He favored his trademark black cape and elven daggers, which he often used to solidify his already fearsome reputation. He was often likened to a "silver snake" because of his appearance, which in part gave him his alias of "The Serpent."
  Elanee's appearance. 
Thin and graceful, Elanee was most at home in the wilderness, where her spry muscles and keen senses served her well, and she typically dressed in the earth-toned robes typical of druids within her order. Like most wood elves, Elanee had high cheek bones, pointed ears, and pale skin with a coppery hue to it that glistened slightly. Young by elven standards and physically attractive, Elanee had a rugged beauty to her accentuated by her fine but often tangled copper-colored hair. A few of the Kalach-Cha's companions commented that she did not bathe as often as they'd prefer, but her beauty and grace were nonetheless remarked upon by several the hero met.
Personality
Calm and reflective, Elanee was not generally prone to taking aggressive action and had a sound mind. In times of moral conflict, Elanee was often a voice of gentle charity or calm benevolence, advising the Kalach-Cha to take actions that would cause the most benefit for all. While she could sometimes be intrigued and infuriated, and particularly disapproved of the Kalach-Cha's companions Bishop and Neeshka, Elanee rarely made shows of emotion for any extended period of time and instead maintained a sober stoicism and curiosity.
Like many druids, Elanee was disdainful of civilization, preferring the untamed wilderness for a home and she felt a kinship with many of its animals, including her animal companion Naloch, a badger. Upon arriving on Neverwinter she lamented the amount of natural resources, such as stone and wood, that had gone into building it.
Elanthra had light skin and long blonde hair.
Elbereth was around five and a half feet tall, weighing approximately 110 pounds, with striking black hair and piercing silver eyes that were "almost eerie". Elbereth was also very muscular and a good hand-to-hand combatant.
Eldath was a pacifist who avoided hostile action, even if threatened. Although shy, quiet and enigmatic, the Green Goddess was possessed of unknown depths of character and unexpressed resolve that could not be broken. Eldath protected rivers, streams, and druids' groves; her dogma was pacifistic, and her followers only resorted to violence in defense of themselves, of their friends and loved ones, and of pools and groves.
The Mother Guardian of Groves was regarded as a goddess of serenity, comfort, and healing. Any waters blessed by her were known to cure sickness and madness. They could also calm the dying giving them peace and a natural passing. Many rural communities have a designated pond or glade which serves as a holy site for local parishioners.These places were traditionally used as places to reflect and meditate. Usually a body of water (either the pond itself or a stream near those glades considered holy sites) serves as a repository for offerings to Eldath in connection with these holy places. But, when no water is near a special tree or bush is designated as a repository to which offerings are tied to its branches. Offerings are typically weapons broken so they can never be used again, or an item that caused an argument and must be discarded to promote peace.
By the 1370s DR, in his true dragon form, Eldenser appeared ancient and decrepit. His scales had paled to white and his wings had withered. He had extra-large eyes and an array of white spines on his chin. The vast majority of the time, his body was magically preserved and protected in a crypt below Waterdeep, while his consciousness traveled Faerûn.
An older male human, Elizar customarily wore robes.
Being a silver elf, Ellifain had black hair with a bluish tint and very pale skin flecked with blue. Her eyes were shimmering azure with gold sparkles.
As a high-level wizard, Elminster was capable of taking on almost any appearance imaginable.
In his natural state, Elminster was an old man with a gray beard, gruff voice, and weathered features but with alert eyes. His clothes were plain. He was rarely without his meerschaum pipe, usually smoking a vile blue or green smoke.
Elminster's most distinguishing physical feature was his hawk-like nose.
"Squarejaw" Thavarask was about 5 ft 4 in (163 cm) tall with brown hair and green eyes. His face and skin showed evidence of many years spent outdoors.
Eltab appeared as a fifteen-foot-tall humanoid with the head of a canine-like creature. His head sported numerous antlers and horns and his body was covered with bony dark red plates. He had slitted yellow glowing eyes.
Eltan was a handsome, tall man with black hair and grey eyes. He was usually clad for combat, wearing a full suit of polished plate mail and carrying multiple magical items and weapons. He was extremely wealthy, as a result of leading the wildly successful Flaming Fist company.
She seemed calm and assured of herself. Her clothes were immaculate, as though the dust in the air was repelled from them. While in Port Llast, she used to stare at the sky contemplatively; her eyes were glassy.
Emirikol dressed in simple, yet elegant clothes and sported a dark, well-trimmed beard.
Erathaol was a tome archon. He was tall—standing at about eight feet (two meters)— and had pearly skin, long golden hair, white feathery wings, and a humanlike face. Technically without biological sex, he appeared with masculine traits, and he spoke in a deep voice.
Erathaol wore rich blue robes, which were decorated with arcane symbols stitched and sewn with silver thread and pearls.
Erek had long blonde hair, wore a horned helmet, and had a beard that reached past his stomach, giving him a somewhat dwarven appearance. He wore a green shirt over banded mail and fought with a serrated long sword and shield. The fighter was heavily muscled, and had a tattoo on his right arm.
Erevan was a shapechanger and had numerous guises. As his avatar, Erevan would choose to appear as either an elf or a type of fey, usually a brownie, pixie, or sprite, of wildly different appearances and sizes. Regardless of what form he was in, Erevan always wore green somewhere on his body as a symbol of his love for the forests where fey and elves live.
  A young Eric. 
Eric came across as very pompous and sarcastic. In actual fact, the Cavalier actually cared a lot for his friends, and would occasionally show his true colors. He despised being mocked or laughed at by his peers, or others. He did not seem to like wizards, stating that they often told lies to make themselves look more important.
When grown up, the fighter looked rather different. Eric wore a light blue cloak over his dark brown clothing, in contrast to the yellow cuirass and red cloak that he wore when he was younger.
Possessions
Eric both fought, and defended himself and his companions, with a large griffon shield. He wore elven chain mail, a cloak of resistance, and gauntlets of ogre power +2. The Cavalier also carried a bag of holding.
Clad in spiked leather armor and wielding a sword and shield, Erin had a symmetrical face, fair skin, and light brown hair.
Errtu was a balor, the second most powerful class of the true tanar'ri demons, after the demon lords. He was twelve feet tall, covered in red scales, had a large pair of batlike wings and a tail, and had a horned, ape-like head with a dog-like muzzle. When he was in the throes of lust for power, he drooled an acidic saliva. His voice was gravelly, guttural, and harsh.
Eustachia Churlgo was a young and hard-working halfling woman with medium-length brown hair.
Her right leg, just below the knee, was entirely prosthetic.
When wandering the city, Faceless dressed in a dark cloak to hide his grotesque deformity. His once elven features were reduced to a mask of blank white and green goo.
Faeril was a tall blonde-haired woman of athletic build. She preferred to wear the garb of green color.
Faerinaal appeared as a handsome and graceful eladrin. He wore a midnight-blue robe covered with silver stars and arcane symbols. He often wielded a shining longsword. He could also take the form of a scintillating globe of light, which was just as much his true form as the humanoid one.
Falias Emberthumb was a portly halfling with a bold head, crow-like nose, dandy grommet mustache, and a small beard.
Farideh is tall and thin and has one golden and one silver eye.
The cleric/mage had white hair and brown eyes. He wore a holy symbol, bracers of protection +1 and a ring of protection +3. Father Jon carried a mace +2, a spellbook, and a wand of acid storm.
Fatima was an attractive woman with tan skin and black hair. She wore blue clothes and several pieces of jewelry, including a large pair of earrings, several bracelets and armbands, and a tiara.
The Lord Protector had gray hair and a number of old wounds that caused him pain but he still continued to train the town's militia.
Favria had many scars—notably in her face—from the time she was a slave.
Felgolos' scales had a particularly glossy sheen.
Fellandar was a muscular, cat-like man, covered in blueish-gray fur with blue hair tied back in a ponytail. He had feline facial features and sharp fangs. He wore baggy maroon pants with golden cuffs, necklace, and rings in his ears. He spoke in an archaic form.
Hatchet was a cruel-faced man. He dressed in regal attire, had a balding forehead, and a large black beard.
Fenn was a handsome man with long blond hair tied in a ponytail and a gold ring in his left ear. At the party, he wore salmon tights, grey vest, and maroon jacket trimmed in white fur and gold, and maroon ribbon tying back his ponytail. In the summer, he wore a mauve open vest open and hot-pink breeches.
Fernd Krip was a balding human man in good physical shape and advancing years. His hands were covered in callouses, evident of his hard labor.
Fflar was tall with broad shoulders, had russet hair and a broad, handsome face. He wore his hair in a braid.
Fierna appeared to be an incredibly attractive young woman, a lithe, statuesque, 6 ft (1.8 m) seductress of stunning physique. Tall, dark and sensual, her garments were as royally fine as they were scantily clingy, furthering her image as a being of perversion and indecency.
Giving away her infernal heritage were the small pair of horns that emerged under her hairline, and even then the fiendish features somehow managed to enhance her enchanting appearance. Her red eyes shined and smoldered like fires were dancing within them and implicit promises of pleasure could be gleaned from her gaze.
Filfaeril had ice-blue eyes and silky, golden blonde hair, like honey, which reached her waist. Her figure was slender and she had pale skin. She was extremely beautiful, with a symmetric face, high cheekbones, and an upper lip that had the shape of a bow. Filfaeril stood at 5.5 feet (1.7 meters). Her everyday crown was a slim circlet with two brow spires, each with a sapphire at the end.
Filia was one of the older Churlgo siblings. She had long brown hair and pale milky complexion. Her clothes where covered in strands of old melted cheese.
Fillian was often described as a skulking gnome, with eyes constantly darting around, in fear of something or someone.
The deep gnome had stubby fingers and was going bald. Firble stood about 3 feet, 6 inches (1.1 meters) tall and weighed around 80 pounds (36 kilograms).
Florin was tall with curly hair. He had a noticeable scar on his had he earned in his younger days. As a youth he was reckless enough to try and pet a baby red dragon leashed to a traveling merchant on his way to sell the beast in Sembia. The dragon breathed fire on Florin, giving his the scar.
The Prince of Deception was a huge creature with two great ebony wings. He was covered in pale blue hair, had gray skin and a long tail. Fraz-Urb'luu had a gargoyle-like form, pointed ears, and a muscular frame.
Fredegar had a snow white hair and beard. He dressed in the finest cloth and had an elflike musical voice.
Fret was a very clean and tidy dwarf, who liked things and people around him to be clean and tidy also. While Catti-brie was in Silverymoon, Fret helped her to clean herself up.
Despite his curious and awkward nature of being the most pampered and clean dwarf in all of Faerûn, he proved himself more than once in battle when his favorite vestments were dirtied by a mind flayer's brain matter after going into a fit of rage against a drow onslaught.
Captain Frederick was a muscular man with very short dark hair. He wore Daggerford's guard uniform of gold and blue colors.
Frizzt had night-black skin and a mane of white hair. He had a very pronounced nose, large ears, and a sharp chin. He dressed in a black robe and flame-patterned leather boots, and carried a medallion around his neck.
Fyodor had thick muscles that made him resemble a tall dwarf, but he wore no beard and had finer features. He had short ("carelessly cut") dark hair. pale skin, and pale blue topaz eyes. He was less than six feet tall, but his berserker rages made him appear closer to seven feet. He carried a three-foot cudgel made of driftwood and a heavy broadsword with a dull blade, which he could not properly wield except during his berserker rages. Despite the dull blade, the sword had been enchanted by his grandmother to cut only those not of Rashemen.
In 1361 DR, Fyodor, perhaps because of his proximity to rune magic or other shapeshifters on Ruathym, became a shapeshifter. His shapeshifting form was a large black bear. Like most shapeshifters, he was ravenous after his change.
Galaeron was tall and solidly built for a moon elf and had the pale skin and regal features common to his race. Two decades of serving as a Tomb Guard along the Desert Border South have left his face mildly rugged and weather-beaten.
The aspiring sage had a full brown beard and matching hair, brown eyes, and light skin. He wore a blue-purple robe. The curious mage wished to become the greatest wizard Faerûn had ever seen.
Entirely bald save for the sides of his head, Galfrey sported a substantial mustache. He had light skin and wore orange clothing.
Galvin was a tall man of almost six feet, lean and muscular build. His eyes were green, reminiscent of the color of fern. His blond, wheat-colored hair was long and loose. The druid's face was smooth with features that were described as quite striking with high cheekbones, and a strong chin. His skin was clear, fair, and tanned.
His usual outfit was colored in greens of various shades, he wore leggings, tunic, soft leather boots, and a thigh-length cloak edged with embroidered feathers. He wore a silver neck chain with a miniature crescent moon and a silver harp pendant.
Gamalon had old scars across his face and a green gem where his left eye had once been. He had dark skin and, by 1374 DR, a salt-and-pepper beard. with a bald head. He was one of the oldest nobles in Queen Zaranda Star's court.
Gamalon so commonly had ioun stones orbiting his head that he had earned the nickname "Gemhead".
Because he was a landowner, Gamalon was considered a noble of Bral before returning to Tethyr to become a noble there as well.
Gamalon was a known expert on magic items, including historical magical artifacts. He also was knowledgeable regarding spelljamming magic. Indeed, even the spacefaring race known as the Arcane dealt with him directly and had taught him some of their spelljamming magic.
Gargauth's natural appearance was that of a terrible, evil apparition. He was a clawed and fanged monster with jagged shards and horns that jutted from his face and back, and flesh as rotten and warped as his clothing. However, Gargauth's real form only became apparent after he spent some time in an area, such as a town or a specific region. After about one to four months, he would begin twisting back to normal, but his enchanting aura kept those who met him in his thrall even after the physical transformation. Typically only those who met him after the reversion would be aware of his true nature.
Gargauth often appeared as an 8 ft (2.4 m) tall, mustached man of handsome and noble visage, his exact age indeterminable, but his maturity clear. He spoke with a voice that was deep and low, yet whispering and hollow, and at times even reptilian. Sometimes he was known to disguise himself as a mundane trader or old pilgrim, and in the past he had taken on the forms of various races, but only rarely did he appear as female. He often wore swash-topped boots, jerkins with slit and capaciously puffed sleeves, velvet-lined cloaks and other such intricate finery accessorized with pendants, cloak pins, buckle ornaments, and huge, sparkling knuckle rings.
Garrulos was a tall, muscular man with brown hair and a heroic chin.
Garyx usually manifested as a huge fire dragon, sometimes red, sometimes gold.
His skin was covered in barnacles, and his left arm was replaced by a large mechanical crab claw. He wielded a magical trident known as Drown while he was the Prophet of the Cult of the Crushing Wave, and then the magical trident Wave while acting as a Chosen of Umberlee.
The dwarf had a thick black beard. He was the son of Steelfist, the dwarven representative of the Council of Sparkling Stones. He was exceptional at many things, especially combat; he was remarkably strong and talented.
Gayrlana was a beautiful woman with white hair and dusky skin. Her appearance caused rumors that she was part drow.
When wandering the city, Faceless dressed in a dark cloak to hide his grotesque deformity. His once elven features were reduced to a mask of blank white and green goo.
Gershom had long and ragged white hair, with a matching mustache. He wore fringed leather clothing, and carried a black sword with a red pommel.
Gerti was over 12 feet (3.7 meters) tall and had blue skin. She was attractive, with dark blue eyes and long golden hair. She had a muscular build and wore a silver wolf fur cloak with a brown leather dress, a necklace of wolves teeth, and boots topped with the same silvery fur. Her boots were rumored to be magical and quickened her strides.
Although Geryon typically stood 10 ft (3 m) tall, his serpentine body stretched to 30 feet (9.1 meters) in terms of length and ended in a venom-dripping barb. His humanoid torso was muscular, with massive, bat-like wings protruding from his back, and his large, bestial arms ended in clawed hands similar to paws. Despite his mismatched bodily structure, the Wild Beast had a kind of raw, animalistic presence that made him weirdly alluring and his head boasted a strangely handsome visage.
Sometimes he took the form of smaller beings to make movement easier, preferring the shapes of monsters like ogres and minotaurs or beasts like tigers.
In avatar form, Ghaunadaur appeared as a reddish-purple giant slug, but at will it can alter its form into an amorphous free-flowing shape like a jelly, rear up into a giant roper with up to 10 long purple tentacles, or appear as a sticky green substance that emerges from the ground.
Unusual for a tanarukk, Ghiirvox had violet-blue skin, suggesting a very particular demon among his ancestors.
Ghleanna was a thin and delicate young woman, 5 feet and 6 inches (1.7 meters) tall, with wheat-golden hair. Her eyes were golden-flecked blue. Her slightly pointed years betrayed her mixed heritage and the blueish tint to her ears and chin exposed her moon elf descent.
She preferred to wear wizard's robes when studying or working in a laboratory. When traveling or adventuring, she could often be seen dressed in brown leggings, knee-high leather boots, a loose tunic, and a hooded cloak of dark-green color.
Lord Tavvas was a distinguished man who was rarely seen out of his blue uniform. In 1358 DR, he was the oldest member of the Boar's Heads, being nearly 90 years old. His mind was still sharp, even at that age, and he was proud.
His most familiar body was that of a weak and puny man, issuing a steady stream of phlegm-filled coughs. He had heavy eyelids; thick, full lips; and no beard or stubble, making his face look too clean and soft to be an adult's. Up until his death at the hands of Cadderly Bonaduce, Ghost also used the body of the firbolg Vander to escape any dangerous situations and to perform his craft.
Gideos wore an eye patch over its left eye, which concealed a gem that, when exposed, amplified its telepathic capabilities.
Gilgeam's first incarnation avatar was a handsome, tall and muscular human with golden hair and beard. Gilgeam's second incarnation had very much the same appearance, with the difference that he was shaved and had no hair on his head.
The gnome had swept-back blonde hair and wore a tatty leather cuirass with several straps attached to it. He fought with a greatsword that was similar in height to him.
Giogi was quite tall, 6 feet and 3 inches (1.9 meters) and thin. His features were far different from the majority of those of his family, lacking the hawk nose, pale skin, blue eyes, for a softer set of features. His face was long, his hair - sandy brown, brown eyes, and tanned skin from traveling and spending time on the open road.
Giogi wore leather breeches, a purple shirt with a sash and half-cloak, and battered brown boots. Giogi came across as a bit of a fop, but his muscle tone and fighting prowess proved differently.
Glasya appeared as a 9 ft (2.7 m) tall, black-haired figure similar in form to a succubus. She was well-built and of unearthly beauty that remained undiminished by the small horns, large, leathery wings, and forked tail that gave away her diabolical origins. Notably, her skin was of a copper hue, itself not an extremely unusual trait for humanoids, but made prominent by its more metallic appearance. She was adorned with jewels, clothes, and various finery of incredible expense.
While was described by some as being particularly handsome for a white dragon, he was not especially intelligent.
The myconid sovereign appeared more short and rotund than others of their species. Glut was also much darker than other myconids and parts of his body emitted a faint orange glow. Small blue mushrooms grew over many parts of their body. Glut weighed 100 kg.
Gogal was lean and possessed aquiline features. He was a handsome man in his late 30's. He always kept his beard and mustache neatly trimmed. In order to put many of his customers at ease, Gogal appeared completely unarmed at all times. All of his magical items and spellcasting components were hidden beneath his voluminous robe.
The avatar form of Ghoibniu was typically that of a large, brawny human, dressed in smith attire and with skin blackened from working at the forge.
The ancient red was known for his excessive greed, and would make smugglers pay him tribute for every load of illicit goods that were brought in. Golozz lived in the southeastern part of the dock, and was the real power of the area. However, he guaranteed that the activities of the bootleggers would remain undisturbed.
Even the presence of Golozz made the smugglers of the region tremble, as he threatened them with death if they did not bring him tribute. Golozz often roared extremely loudly throughout the night. They worked hard to appease the red dragon, as they knew that, if they did not, Golozz would burn the docks to the ground. Apparently his thirst for gold was so much, it was impossible to use logic with him.
The mad fire giant was born with a distinct hunch in his back, causing him to stoop lower than his fellow kin and appear much more like a giant dwarf. He was ostracized from his giant community.
Appearing to be in his forties, though his precise age was uncertain, Gondegal was a large and muscular man, standing over 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall. He had gray or white hair that he let grow long and hang loose and a long mustache that drooped below his jaw. He had a confident and proud bearing, bordering on arrogance. His self-assurance was clear to all who beheld him.
His badge and his family's ancestral mark was the head of a grey wolf with red eyes, viewed face on.
Gondolo was 3 feet 6 inches (1.1 meters) tall and weighed 80 pounds (36.3 kilograms).
Gorellik's one and only avatar appeared as either a tall gnoll with mange or as a hyaenodon with blotchy white fur.
In his later years he had a notably older-appearing old face, highlighted by a friendly expression and pointed, gray beard. He often wore his long, gray hair tied up in a ponytail.
Gorm appeared as a 6 ft (1.8 m) or 11 ft (3.4 m) tall dwarf clad in golden-brown, full plate armor decorated with red runes that constantly changed and crawled across the suit. The Sentinel spoke with a stern, booming voice, and divine flames constantly licked the eyeholes of his mask.
He had a dark complexion bordering on green, and a mane of white hair. Gort clad himself in armor, and wore a headband studded with a large gemstone.
A pale-skinned half-orc, Grash dressed in an intricate red-and-black robe. Atop his head rested a golden crown with two red gemstones, and his wide-nosed face bore an aggressive scowl.
Graul was a large orc.
  An aspect of Graz'zt, alongside a marilith. 
Standing nine feet tall, Graz'zt appeared as a lithe, muscular humanoid. His skin shone like polished obsidian, and his eyes glittered with malevolent green light. He had yellowed fangs, pointed ears, and six slender fingers decorating each hand. He was sometimes described as having six small black horns half-hidden amid his thick black hair. These fiendish traits were apparent, regardless of whatever form Graz'zt chooses to take. He was considered the comeliest demon in the Abyss, and dressed in the most expensive and elegant finery on the entire plane.
Wielding an acid-drenched greatsword in one hand and a profane tower shield in the other, the Dark Prince was a veritable killing machine when loosed upon the hordes of the Abyss. What's more, he had a vast repertoire of spell-like abilities at his disposal, making him a deadly magical opponent. Graz'zt's greatest weapons, however, were his mastery of seduction and guile. He entertained the notion that he was the most cunning and intelligent creature in the Abyss; indeed, there were few who could possibly contest such a claim.
History
  
There were several competing, often contradictory theories as to Graz'zt's origin, some of which claimed that he was not a native to the Abyss, but was once an archdevil who served Asmodeus. In one of these theories, Graz'zt was chosen to lead an invasion of the Abyss as part of the Blood War—and conquered three layers of the Abyss—but became corrupted by the chaotic forces he had been sent to destroy and renounced his allegiance to the devils. Another theory claimed that Graz'zt became disillusioned with his place in Baator when he realised that the hierarchy of Hell ultimately benefited only one creature - Asmodeus - and felt that pledging his allegiance to the Abyss was the only way to place himself beyond Asmodeus' clutches.
Yet another theory suggested that Graz'zt is one of several demonic children of Pale Night, sired after the fall of the Obyrith; this would make him the brother of several other demons, including Lupercio, Vucarik, Rhyxali and Zivorgian. Those who subscribed to this theory believed that Pale Night must have drawn some great evil entity to herself to father her children; suggestions for what this entity could have been included an evil god such as Set, a baernoloth, the patriarch of a race of immortal warriors from another reality, an Outer God of Crawling Chaos, and even a sentient portion of the Abyss itself. Some maintain that Asmodeus was drawn from the Nine Hells to mate with Pale Night, implying that there may be truth in both theories.
During the Rage of Demons in 1486 DR, Graz'zt was summoned to the Underdark below the Earthfast Mountains near the Master's Library where he subdued a force of Zhentarim.
The Minions of Graz'zt
The Material Plane

“
The dark man, the shadow king, the ebony skinned master of all things that revel in the night, oh master Graz’zt, spare me your wrath and grant me your favor!

”
— Besmal, human cultist of Graz'zt.

Although he has not yet achieved divine status, Graz'zt is worshiped by many monstrous races, most notably the lamias. Many of his high priests, known as the Chosen, are female, and the rituals they perform are violent and involve themes of darkness and betrayal.
The Dark Prince is a deeply sexual, erotic being. He is known on many worlds only in legend, as a dark figure who visits witches and sorcerers, granting them sexual favors as well as magical powers. As a result, his female consorts have populated the multiverse with a depraved host of half-fiend children. Some learn of their father's identity and delve into the Abyss, hoping to usurp his power. His dark elf son, Athux, leads Graz'zt's demonic army, while his daughter Thraxxia serves as a private assassin.
In −666 DR, twin half-fiendish sons of Graz'zt and Ayanna Orgolath, Ulthas and Ulthar, were born. They overthrew the lich-king of Narfell, Belevan the Unliving. Ulthas became Narfell's new ruler, reigning from −633 DR to −623 DR, when he was slain while leading an invasion of Mulhorand and Unther.
Ulthas's brother Ulthar became the next ruler of Narfell, reigning until −578 DR. He was succeeded by his tiefling son Vargaun. Vargaun ruled until −535 DR, and was succeeded by his third tiefling son, Horthaun. Horthaun ruled until −482 DR, succeeded by his own first tiefling son, Jelethar. Jelethar ruled until −475 DR, when he disappeared on an expedition to the Sunrise Mountains. Jelethar's younger brother Morthass ruled until −434 DR, when his sole heir, a tiefling named Nardrad, became king of Narfell and ruled until −399 DR. Nardrad's son, King Orlathaun, was human. He reigned for less than a year before being slain by the Ayarch Jesthren, a son of Orcus.

  Graz'zt and Iggwilv. 
For a time, Graz'zt was trapped on the Material Plane world of Oerth by the witch-queen Iggwilv, who used his insight to elevate her own power. Eventually, however, she succumbed to the Dark Prince's charms. Graz'zt ultimately returned to the Abyss, but rumors abound that he did, in fact, fall in love with his captor. A son, Iuz, was born of their union.
Some sources claim that Graz'zt was the creator of the Vasharans, a breed compared to humans as the drow are compared to elves. Deemed cruel and soulless by the gods who created him, the Vasharans' ancestor was destroyed... but Graz'zt breathed new life into the corpse, long before he attained his present status. It is a terrifying legacy, for the Vasharans are obsessed with deicide, and destroying all gods has become the reason for their existence.

The Abyss
Graz'zt is always attended by six powerful lamias, and his marilith escorts, Unhath and Reluhantis, are never far from his side. When at his palace, the Dark Prince keeps many attractive demons at hand to feed his ferocious sexual appetite. Bodaks and similar horrors are the only other occupants of the Argent Palace.
Technically, every demon living within Graz'zt's world-spanning empire is considered one of his loyal servants; those who prove otherwise are fed to the carnivorous plants in his perfumed hanging gardens. Noteworthy minions include a hulking goristro named Orwantz, who acts as Graz'zt's personal border control for Azzagrat, and Rule-of-Three, a cambion who meets secretly with other fiends of the Lower Planes, to strategize an attack against the celestials.
Graz'zt's most powerful servant is a mysterious, hyper-intelligent demon named Verin. Like Graz'zt, Verin appears almost human, but his skin is deathly pale, and he constantly oozes spiritual slime. Verin can change his form at will, and often elects a black-skinned mirror image of himself, known as Ztefano. He serves as the Dark Prince's majordomo and chief ambassador to the other demon lords.
The god Raxivort was once a servant of the Dark Prince. He stole powerful artifacts from Graz'zt and escaped to the howling chasms of Pandemonium, where he became the divine patron of rodents and bats. Raxivort even has his own chosen race, a goblinoid horde known as the xvarts.
Enemies
  Graz'zt "hosting" Waukeen in the Abyss 
Through his own schemings and mischief, Graz'zt has become the chief enemy of Waukeen, a goddess of wealth and merchantry. The deity bargained for safe passage across Zelatar with information regarding a secret horde of treasure. Graz'zt readily accepted the offer, but betrayed Waukeen as soon as she arrived in the Abyss. Imprisoned in the Argent Palace, the goddess was forced to witness profane celebrations held in her honor.
But even the wrath of a god cannot compare to the hatred and spite of the Dark Prince's chief rivals, Demogorgon and Orcus. The violence of the eternal war between these three demons rivals that of the Blood War, and costs them unthinkable resources that could be put to use in the battles against the baatezu. Graz'zt covets Demogorgon's title as the Prince of Demons above all else, and throws army after army at his most hated enemy in hopes of claiming it.
Graz'zt wars with many other lords of the Abyss as well, including Baphomet and Yeenoghu. Thanks to the efforts of his son Athux, he recently overthrew the demon prince Adimarchus, who ruled Occipitus, the 507th layer of the Abyss.
One of Graz'zt's most confusing enemies is the witch queen Iggwilv. The two have been both lovers and bitter enemies over many years.
Naturally, the Dark Prince is a fundamental enemy of all that is good and holy in the multiverse, and despite whatever promises he makes, every mortal who deals with him is doomed to an afterlife of endless horror beyond the scythe-tipped gates of Zelatar.
Two of Graz'zt's other greatest enemies were Malcanthet, Queen of the Succubi, and Gwynharwyf, Champion of the eladrin. His conflict with the former ended up involving Kostchtchie, the Prince of Wrath, who swore revenge against Graz'zt for humiliating him, although Graz'zt himself did not consider the upstart demon lord as much of a threat.
The League of Six-Fingered Gentlemen
A sinister group known as the League of the Six-Fingered Gentlemen (sometimes the League of Six Rings) wormed its way into the hierarchy of the church of Waukeen during the time that Graz'zt had imprisoned the goddess in the Abyss. Once there, they have not been rooted out, and they have been busily spreading the Harlot's Coin Heresy among Waukeen's faithful. This heretical schism of Waukeen's faith teaches that Waukeen has been gradually selling off pieces of her divinity and virtue to Graz'zt in order to finance her church. It was for failing to pay her debts to Graz'zt that the demon lord imprisoned her during the Time of Troubles. These heretics teach that Waukeen became free because she finally paid her debt to the demon, resulting in Graz'zt now owning the majority of Waukeen's godhood. The heretics, thus, believe that all who worship Waukeen are really worshiping Graz'zt instead, and they're just fine with that.
The Great Ape was an unusually large white girallon infamous for its voicelessness. Its scarred hide bore signs of many battles indicating its age and aggressive nature.
The Great Mage was depicted as the quintessential image of the wizard: an old man with woolly white hair, mustache, and beard, with glasses and wearing purple robes and pointed hat adorned with stars. He spoke in a high, squeaky voice.
  The Great Mother's symbol, an egg with a central eye 
The Great Mother's avatar appeared as a gargantuan beholder, 18 ft (5.5 m) in diameter, that slowly and silently drifted through the air. Her bloated body was coated in a layer of random debris, including small stones and shells, encrusted gems, armor scraps, damaged weapons, skeletons, dragon's teeth and other refuse. It was thought that the features of the Great Mother's form were in a state of constant flux as a result of her utter complexity. Despite her ever-changing form, her presence was always enchanting to beholders since their own distorted minds remembered her as having their traits.
Personality
Those that studied the Great Mother typically concluded that she was completely insane, lacking in the ruthless logic possessed by mortal beholders. In truth, she was not only intelligent but dangerously so, the method behind her madness simply being beyond the ability of most beings to understand. Ironically, her mind wasn't even divided into two halves, like most beholders. Still, while not crazy or mindless, the Great Mother was a creature of utter chaos and capricious whimsy, acting primarily on instinct and impulse.
Often times, the Great Mother philosophized to herself about the nature of chaos and evil and was rumored to be the greatest sage on the subjects. She was said to be omniscient according to beholders and did, in truth, possess exclusive hidden lore, but seemed to be so knowledgeable that she was incapable of sharing it with any but the most intelligent entities, much less inferior beings. Some scholars speculated that she was not unable to convey such knowledge, but simply wouldn't provide it to lower-lifeforms, and indeed the Great Mother was a jealous and egotistical intellectual that refused to acknowledge even the notion that she could be mistaken. Befitting the deity of eye tyrants, she was said to have her own strange standards for her creations and would destroy or devour any that she found displeasing.
The Lady was an elderly woman of 80 years in 1369 DR, standing only 5 feet and 4 inches (1.6 meters) tall and quite frail. Her eyes were green but faded with age, and she had long, loose iron-grey hair. She typically wore a simple home-spun brown robe.
She was a worshiper of Eldath.
  Grobnar's appearance 
Grobnar's appearance could probably have been best described as unkempt, though no more so than is typical of gnomes. With wild hair exploding in every direction from his head and a hyperactive mouth, Grobnar exhibited many of the common qualities of gnomes. But while Grobnar often seemed child-like in manner, his physical appearance suggested otherwise. With wrinkles evident along his face, it was clear to observers that Grobnar was far from youthful, in spite of his energy, being well into his middle ages.
Grobnar preferred to dress in leather armor or simple clothes, carrying with him often at times a lute or other magical instrument for use as an implement. He also claimed to have a codpiece with a spring-mounted shield, amongst other oddball devices.
Personality
Jovial and inquisitive, Grobnar was an ever curious and blissfully bright-eyed individual who took delight in the discovery of new things and their recording. He had a love of tales, collecting them and telling them, though sometimes to a degree that others found irritating. He appreciated such qualities in others as well, complimenting them if they remembered some piece of particularly obscure lore or were able to decipher something he was unable to.
In many ways, Grobnar seemed slightly out of touch with reality, demonstrating what seemed to be an excessive amount of naivete as well as a utter disregard of the dangers involved in some of his research. His belief in the Wendersnaven, against all evidence to the contrary, would cause skepticism amongst many of his companions as to the creatures' existence. However, at other times Grobnar appeared more cunning than he let on, successfully reactivating the badly damaged Construct as well as solving several puzzles on behalf of the Kalach-Cha. Likewise, when Bishop tried to decieve him into providing the overrides for the Construct, Grobnar secretly prepared another set, which he may have used to prevent Bishop's treachery.
Grobnar has demonstrated a surprising facility with languages, running through at least six when he attempted to translate "Kalach-Cha". The closest he came to a translation was Draconic; apparently the word means something like "gizzard stone" if you drop the 'k'.
She was extremely old for a tortle, and walked with the aid of a spear. Barnacles grew on the back of her shell, and starfish of various colors were also attached to it. On her head she wore a braided headdress studded with pearls and a single piece of coral.
Gromph was austere yet handsome. He had amber eyes, like his daughter Liriel. Despite his old age (he was old even by elven standards), Gromph appeared eternally youthful due to the effects of a magical amulet in his possession, that contained a piece of a unicorn's horn. As a powerful spellcaster and the archmage of the city, Gromph almost always wore the Robe of the Archmage of Menzoberranzan, a ceremonial garment that was heavily enchanted. He also displayed the badge of House Baenre at all times.
Interestingly, by 1361 DR, Gromph had not been able to enter elven Reverie for many decades, nor sleep; presumably, only the power of his brooch of perpetual youth kept him alive.
He appeared as an enormous earth elemental with red eyes that glimmered like rubies.
Gruumsh normally appeared as a hulking, 10 feet (3 meters) tall orc covered in battle scars and clad in a black, gleaming suit of plate mail armor. His tough, gray hide was corded with muscle, and on his one-eyed face was a bear-like snout. In some incarnations he had only a right eye and an empty left eye socket, while in others he simply had one large, cycloptic eye that stared unwinking in the center of his forehead.
Guenhwyvar was summoned through a detailed onyx figurine of a panther. When summoned, the figurine emitted a gray mist which quickly solidified into the panther shape. Guenhwyvar herself was described as a "huge black panther."
She had deep red skin and yellow eyes. Guk was a notably small goblin.
Gwaeron always appeared as a tall, incredibly muscular human male with white hair and a long white beard that flowed and whipped in the wind. He always wore clothing suitable for wilderness travel, but never wore anything above his waste. He was normally silent, and when he did speak it was in terse sentences with little physical sign of emotion.
Gwynharwyf appeared elf-like with wild, silver-white hair, tanned skin, and eyes the color of jade. She was somewhat short and stocky as were most bralani.
The intelligent old man dressed in a leather shirt and wore a coif. He had dark eyes and black facial hair.
Haedrak was tall, had dark brown hair, and sported a finely trimmed goatee. He had green eyes. Due to a blessing from Siamorphe, in 1370 DR, while in his mid- to late-30s, he appeared fifteen years younger.
During his time as the apprentice Lhaeo, Haedrak intentionally never sat or stood up straight and maintained an effeminate demeanor. He spoke in a lisp in a high voice, but all of this was a facade.
Haedyll had bright, blue eyes, brown hair, and a pug nose. He dressed in white clothes, and wore a golden necklace with red gemstones.
Haela often appeared in a spectacular, albeit harmless, burst of sudden blue-white flames as a 6 ft (1.8 m) tall, heavily muscled female dwarf. Sometimes she was armored in fine dwarven scale mail or plate mail and at others she was clad only in her silver hair, a long, flowing mane and beard.
Haer'Dalis had an unsettling aura that made people from the Prime Material plane nervous.
In life, Hagatha was considered the most beautiful of all giants. As an undead, she had a decrepit, desiccated appearance, with sickly green skin, rotting clothes, and stringy, black hair.
He clad himself in blue do-maru armor, with white-and-red kote and a kabuto helm. He had a long, black mustache.
At some point in his life Halas became afflicted with a spellscar.
In 1372 DR, Hala looked older than her thirty years, with sunken eyes, flat brown hair, and aged skin. She usually wore a stained and threadbare brown frock. She spoke with a soft voice, her smile was usually strained, and she giggled for no discernible reason. In the Year of the Shield, 1367 DR, she was a fixture in the Grinning Lion, usually sitting on a bar stool in her guise as a grumpy, overweight, male ne'er-do-well.
The wise elf had pink skin and orange-brown hair. They mostly wore white-blue clothing and a circlet, most of which were themed around celestial objects.
Drow
Halisstra was tall for a drow, nearly 5 ft 6 in (1.7 m), and slender. She wore black steel armor and wielded a mace and shield. She had a snub nose and was not considered to be as stunning as other drow, but she was beautiful in an austere and measured manner and very graceful and regal nonetheless.
Halisstra was scholarly. She had originally intended to study lore to find forgotten spells or secrets to aid her against her enemies, but she found that she enjoyed learning for its own sake. When she was a priestess of Lolth, she sought the favor of Lolth for her house and for her city.

Demon
Lolth's magic transformed Halisstra into a twisted mockery of her former svelte drow form. Her body changed to reflect hate. She appeared to be a hybrid of demon and drow known as the Lady Penitent. She stood twice as tall as a typical drow. She was still slightly feminine, with eight spider legs protruding from her chest. Her hair was a matted tangle that looked like old spider silk. Under each of her eyes was a hairy bulge, from which a fang-tipped jaw curved, the points meeting above the mouth.
With all of these physical changes, the most horrible was not visible. Lolth also injected Halisstra with a venom that caused constant agony, without killing her. The only reprieve she received was when she followed the will of Lolth.
History
War of the Spider Queen
In Year of Wild Magic, 1372 DR, Halisstra was the First Daughter of House Melarn, one of the ruling houses of Ched Nasad. However, a plot by House Zauvirr enacted with the help of the duergar mercenary band Clan Xornbane led to the destruction of her house and, indeed, the destruction of the city of Ched Nasad. Halisstra was able to escape through a portal with a group of drow from Menzoberranzan led by Quenthel Baenre who were investigating the Silence of Lolth.
Soon after, Halisstra lost faith in Lolth. There were many factors involved in this, including doubts caused by the Silence of Lolth, the destruction of her city, and her capture by the forces of Lord Dessaer of Elventree. During her captivity, she was introduced to the Eilistraeean priestess (formerly a priestess of Lolth) Seyll Auzkovyn. Seyll displayed confidence and assurance in her faith, as well as (misplaced) trust in Halisstra herself. On an excursion to witness religious rites, Halisstra slew Seyll and her companion, Xarra, and charmed their other companion, Feliane in order to escape. However, Halisstra continued to think of Seyll's confidence in her goddess even up until death, especially after witnessing the inaction of Lolth against Vhaeraun in the Demonweb Pits. Seyll's influence on her was a great part of her later conversion to the worship of Eilistraee.
Halisstra briefly continued on with Quenthel's expedition, but she decided to defect and leave for the surface. Ryld, who had become her lover, joined her. They were attacked by a troll and saved by Eilistraeeans, but in order to save Ryld, she had to claim to want to convert to the worship of Eilistraee. As she said it, however, she realized it was true and passed a test of faith (killing a phase spider) in order to join the ranks of the dancing priestesses. As a new priestess of Eilistraee, one of Halisstra's first assignments was to recover the Crescent Blade, which had in fact been borne by one of her ancestors (Mathira Melarn) and lost in the Cold Field. She retrieved the blade from the maw of a purple worm with the help of Ryld and the healing aid of Uluyara and Feliane, priestesses of Eilistraee.
Uluyara assigned Halisstra to find Quenthel Baenre once more in order to find and slay Lolth. Uluyara and Feliane accompanied her to the Astral Plane, where they met the departed souls of Seyll, who protected Halisstra from the return of Lolth, and Ryld, who proclaimed his love for her but nevertheless chose an afterlife with Lolth. They continued on to the Demonweb Pits, with the cry of Yor'thae (Chosen of Lolth) echoing in Halisstra's head. She once again had a crisis of faith after she watched her fellow priestesses get slain when they were betrayed by Danifae Yauntyrr; Halisstra had expected Danifae to aid her and was angry at Eilistraee for not warning her. During this battle, the Crescent Blade was broken.
Halisstra, as one of the three candidates for Yor'thae, accompanied Quenthel Baenre and Danifae Yauntyrr into the tabernacle of Lolth to sit in the very presence of the Spider Queen. When told that only one member of the trio would leave the tabernacle alive, Halisstra assumed she was going to be obliterated. However, Danifae became the Yor'thae and face of Lolth and retaliated for all the suffering she had endured as Halisstra's battle captive. As punishment for her apostasy, Halisstra was rewarded with eternal service as Lolth's Lady Penitent, a tormented demon charged with killing heretics in the name of Lolth.

  Halisstra, as Lolth's priestess. 
Lady Penitent Trilogy
Halisstra was sent back to Faerûn and began to hunt priests of Vhaeraun. When she was found by priestesses of Eilistraee, she convinced them that the Crescent Blade still existed in the Demonweb Pits. The Darksong Knight Cavatina Xarann followed her into the Abyss, and found the blade still in the consecrated but collapsing temple of Eilistraee. Cavatina Xarann used the blade and the assistance of the Lady Penitent to kill the demigod Selvetarm.
Years later Lolth gave her to the balor Wendonai. He sent her back to Faerûn, to search for Cavatina Xarann and take her to the demon. Halisstra succeeded, and the balor discarded the Lady Penitent once she delivered the priestess. Looking for a way to kill herself and escape Lolth, she entered the Negative Material plane. Unfortunately, this was also not enough to kill her. Eventually, Halisstra came to the Acropolis of Kiaransalee in the Underdark, where her actions were unknown. Some time after that she was summoned to an ancient temple in the ruins of Ilythiir. She was freed by T'lar Mizz'rynturl and the Lady Penitent believed herself to be a new god. T'lar Mizz'rynturl started the Cult of the Lady Penitent and planned to gather influence in the drow city Sshamath. 
Meanwhile, Cavatina Xarann resisted the demon Wendonai and killed his body in the Abyss. But he wasn't dead yet, as his soul was still in the Crescent Blade. When Cavatina learned of this and where the blade was, she tried to talk with Qilué but the priestess trapped her because she had her own plans. She wanted to lure the demon into her body and drive him out with silver fire. With the final death of Wendonai she hoped to free all drow of the mark of Wendonai.
Qilué teleported to the only place where she thought the demon could be bound: the royal court of ancient Ilythiir where coronal Geirildin Sethomiir summoned Wendonai for the first time. Her sister Laeral Silverhand helped her but she did not want to kill Qilué so she magically stopped time for the corrupted Qilué and went to search for someone who knew about how to kill demons. When she was away the Lady Penitent found the frozen priestess and took her to an ancient temple nearby. 
There she got hold of the Crescent Blade and tried to kill Qilué with it but Eilistraee took possession of Qilué's body and became mortal. Eilistraee wanted to talk sense into the Lady Penitent and free her from the clutches of Lolth. But Wendonai acted swiftly and tricked her into believing that it was Lolth disguised as Eilistraee. Furiously the Lady Penitent killed the goddess, and therefore she had done what Lolth and Wendonai had planned all along for her (even though Lolth's success would later be undone, with the Dark Maiden's return during the Second Sundering). Leliana Vrinn, another priestess of Eilistraee, took revenge and finally ended the sad existence of Halisstra.
Abilities
Drow
Halisstra followed the little-known tradition of House Melarn to learn the art of bae'qeshel to become "dark minstrels." This was essentially a version of the bardic arts. She was able to charm people with her songs and create dimensional doors. Because of her bae'qeshel training, Halisstra was able to use arcane magical devices.
She could keep a globe of darkness going for three hours. She was also fairly proficient in the wielding of a mace and a shield.

Demon
Halisstra's Lady Penitent form was much more powerful than her former one, and she could regenerate wounds nearly instantaneously. Her strength increased exponentially, and she seemed to enjoy all of the resistances of the demon races.
She still had control of her bae'qeshel abilities, even though the litanies were now mangled owing to her disfigured mouth. Whether or not her clerical magic remained was unknown, though as Lolth's champion, some sort of power was to be assumed.
Possessions
As a drow, Halisstra had an arcane wand of invisibility and another wand of divine healing. Halisstra had a lyre made of dragon bone and mithral string with a leather case, which she used it to strengthen her bae'qeshel songs. She also had a ring of detect poison.
When Halisstra was abducted by Eilistraeeans shortly after the fall of Ched Nasad, she lost many of her possessions, including a thundering mace she had received from her mother some 100 years before. However, she stripped the dead Seyll Auzkovyn of her equipment, including her mail and an enchanted sword. The mail had the symbol of Eilistraee on its breast. The sword had holes in the hilt which could be played like a flute.
Halisstra obtained the Crescent Blade in the Cold Field with the help of Ryld Argith and wielded it until it was broken in her fight with Danifae Yauntyrr in the Demonweb Pits.
Halisstra abandoned her house medallion in the Cold Field after Mathira blackened it. In the Demonweb Pits, Halisstra picked up a dead spider and used it as a holy symbol of Lolth.
He struck an imposing figure, and was described as a "bear of an elf".
He dressed in short, green pants and a green vest, with a red-and-white-striped undershirt. He had light skin and light brown hair.
The elemental was crated from some form of white stone combined with what was referred to as the "purest flame". It vaguely resembled a massive flamespiker, a type of elemental found in Mount Hotenow that combined the elements of fire, earth, and earth.
  A young Hank. 
Hank, being the oldest member, led the others of his group, who were originally from Earth.
In his adulthood, the ranger looked somewhat different. His hair was more ginger than blonde, and he wore a studded light-blue mantle, instead of typical studded-leather armor. He appeared to enjoy drinking ale.
Possessions
Hank fought with a large energy bow and a masterwork longsword, and wore studded leather armor +3, an amulet of natural armor +1, lesser bracers of archery, and a ring of protection +1.
Harat was considered malformed by demon standards.
As a shapechanger, Harkon assumed a variety of forms. He could become a dire wolf, take a wolf-like hybrid form, or assume the shape of either a male or female human.
As a female human, Harkon was an awesomely beautiful woman with black, waist-length hair, dark brown eyes, and a mesmerizing smile who often wore a gold vest over a white blouse with scarlet pantaloons tucked into her boots.
As a male human, he liked to appear as a 6 feet and 2 inches (1.9 meters) tall, well-muscled handsome man with a lion's mane of black hair and an expertly trimmed beard with a long, pointed mustache. He tended to wear a gold coat over a white ruffled shirt with blue silk trousers tucked into riding boots. He also favored a blue wide-brimmed hat with a feather stuck in it, a belt with a silver buckle and small pieces of jewelry. All of his costumes were always accompanied by a monocle.
Whatever clothes he wore, they were always loose-fitting in case he had to turn into his 7 feet (2.1 meters) tall hybrid form.
At the time of his death, Harldain Ironbar was a middle-aged dwarf. He wore an expensive lavish thick fur coat. His fingers were adorned with precious metal rings and thick dwarfish jewelry chains hung on his neck.
Bespectacled and clad in blue robes, Haroistem sported a thin mane of white hair.
Lord Harrold Pemberton was an older gentleman with glasses and well-groomed white mustache and beard.
Harshnag was particularly burly-looking, even for a frost giant. He had skin as white as snow, light blue eyes and pale blue hair which he often kept tied back in a braid.
Hasar was a muscular individual with desert-yellow skin. His hair was tied into a ponytail at the back of his head, leaving the rest of his scalp bald. He had yellow eyes and cultivated a thin mustache and soul patch. Hasar wore several pieces of jewelry, including bicep bracelets and earrings, and he also wore spiked bracers covering his wrists and lower arms.
Hazlik had bald head, covered with ornate tattoos, and a brown goatee. His left eye was brown, while his right eye was blue. He tended to wear long red robes that exposed his hairless, tattooed chest. His voice was noted as being phlegmy and like a hiss.
Heafstaag bore many wounds from his time on the harsh tundra. He had only one eye, lost to a reindeer's antler, and his left hand was left useless from an attack by a polar bear.
He hated wizards, but nonetheless allied with Akar Kessel.
Her true form was that of a three-headed woman with a gorgeous body, milk white skin, scarlet nails, and eyes that burned like embers. She wore a deep red dress. Her avatar could take on almost any form, but she typically appeared as a beautiful woman with lustrous, dark hair.
Shortly before the young Crown prince Imbrar II was to come of age and claim the throne as king of the nation, in the Year of Lightning Storms, 1374 DR, Helimbraun suddenly became extremely fervent in his aim to "root all evil" from the realm. He suggested his fellow councilors were lacking in morality and admonished them for expressing tolerance in the face of matters he deemed unacceptable.
  The holy symbol of Hephaestus. 
He was considered by some to be the only unattractive deity within his pantheon, due to having a club foot and hunchback. He bore a resemblance to hill giants and had a full beard. He stood roughly 20 ft (6.1 m) tall.
Hephaestus's avatar usually took the form of a muscular human male with shaggy, dark hair and untrimmed beards, with some kind of physical deformity.
Personality
Hephaestus was a very peaceful and generally benevolent deity, but this could be confounded by his sensitivity towards his deformity.
He highly valued and taught the virtues of hard labor, honesty and dependability. He emphasized loyalty to family and whomever else it was due — such as superiors, just rulers, and most of all elders. He encouraged his followers to tackle their problems with vigor and persistence.
Hermes' avatar form perfectly resembled his true form, that of a handsome youth.
Alegni was very large in stature. He wore black studded leather armor, carried Charon's Claw (a great red sword), and had a flowing cape.
Hevesar was a middle-aged scruffy but handsome male with brown hair.
Hew was missing his left arm as the result of an encounter with the red dragon Tzindelor.
Hlal manifested in whatever form suit her purposes at any given moment. If she was not in the process of playing a trick on someone, she usually manifested as a faerie dragon that glowed with a yellowgold aura or as a happy looking copper dragon.
As Aasterinian, she always manifested as a huge brass dragon.
His final pose was that of a guard at ease, facing towards the harbor. This statue was viewed respectfully by those who resided in the southernmost wards of the city.
Short and stout, Huldyl's face was often sweaty. He had eyes the color of amber and a large mustache that partially obscured his mouth. He tended to wear many rings.
Hutijin looked like a pit fiend with brown skin and longer teeth. He had more triangular wings and a longer tail. Like a pit fiend, his eyes glowed with fire.
He was handsome, with a wild mop of curly hair, dark, intelligent eyes, and a fair face. Hyrsam wore simple clothing when traveling, and dressed in formal attire when visiting fey courts.
Ibbalar Thrul was a middle-aged human man with long hair and a design tattooed on his forehead. Even outside of Thay, he liked to wear his crimson robes.
The exact appearance of Iggwilv was unknown to many. Some described her as a ravishing beauty, while others claimed she was a bald and hideous crone.
Ileldra was a dark-haired beauty with a slender build.
The drow cleric of Lolth had deep red eyes and several tattoos across her arms, chest and legs. Her black-red "armor" was quite revealing. She carried a large staff that glowed green-blue at its apex.
She had the markings of lightning damage on her arms.
In avatar form, Ilmater appeared as a short man with a burly build and wearing only a breechcloth, with a plain but kind and comforting face, balding head, and a hairy body. But this body bore the marks of mutilation and torture on the rack, covered with open cuts, closed scars, burns, and a range of other wounds. Ilmater's joints were broken, his limbs were ravaged, and his hands were smashed yet still functional. Moving caused him a great deal of pain as he dragged himself around. No matter how much his avatar healed, it still showed these terrible wounds.
Ilneval appeared as a confident and seemingly war-wise, yet perpetually unsmiling, 9 feet (2.7 meters) tall orc. His face and arms were marred heavily by battle scars that only increased his appeal to his orcish followers.
Ilsensine possessed infinite tentacles of infinite length that stretched to all planes. It usually manifested itself like a glowing disembodied emerald-color brain that trailed countless ganglion-like tentacles stretching into the dark.
Ilxendren appeared as a huge vampiric manta ray. This cruel deity's eyes were bright red and its tail was covered in long barbs. This lesser power was primarily worshiped by ixzan, and potentially ixitxachitl. They believed that Ilxendren was their creator, and so ixzan were known as "spawn of Ilxendren".
Imgig's natural form was of a powerfully built humanoid creature, muscular and standing 7.5 feet (2.3 meters) tall. He had scaly gray-green skin, red eyes, and a wide maw full of fangs. His great head bristled with curving horns: two protruded from the top of his head, two from the sides, and two from his jaw either side of his mouth.
In the guise of a human-like being, he appeared to Selûne as a darkly handsome man with long black hair.
In both forms, he customarily wore a white breastplate, greaves, bracers, and armbands, decorated with curling black designs and red gems in gold settings. Behind, he wore a long green cloak.
She had wide eyes and a manner of speech that was beyond her years.
Imoen was a decent enough cook and knew some information about brewing. In her youth she was quite knowledgeable about the goings-on in Candlekeep, due to her inquisitive nature.
Fair-skinned and brown-haired, Indigo wore a hooded and voluminous blue robe.
Infinity was a tall and athletically built half-elf male with long blond hair and pale skin.
Inkstain was named for his appearance, as he was covered all over with ink stains. His beard might have been white, but was gray with ink. He was cantankerous when working, but polite to customers.
Insal had mid-length brown hair, and wore a grey shirt. When imprisoned in Darkmoon, he was stripped and beaten by the clerics, giving him a severely bruised eye.
Inselm was an obese, black-haired, mustached man with a conspiratorial mind like no other. Despite his constant conniving, he was skilled at covering his tracks and was highly respected by most of his subjects for doing good things for his duchy. As he was careful to never be caught in a lie, only a select few ever suspected him.
She had a distinct scar on her cheek, given to her by an orcish javelin.
Ira wore a full suit of armor, as well as a thin blue headband. She had curly brown hair, and dark brown eyes.
Irae was striking for a drow, as she was an albino, a seldom seen variant known as a szarkai. An eerily beautiful elf, Irae had white skin and a hairless head whilst her body seemed to be wrapped in a glowing green mist that surrounded her shoulders and chest, then rose up behind her head like a cloak.
Isair was described to be a twisted sorcerer with as much power as any master of the Host Tower of the Arcane.
Being half-elf and half-devil, Isair had typical elven and devilish characteristics. He was about six and a half feet tall, and stood on two legs. He had dark red skin, broad, leathery wings, twisted legs, and a tail. Isair was a powerful wizard with fighter training, and fought off his enemies with two large scimitars.
The young dwarf had black scruffy hair and a beard. He wore splint mail that was fastened by a belt, a set of bracers, and leather boots. Isharn carried three daggers +1 and an axe +2.
Isis appeared as a Mulan woman in a white linen dress and sandals. She also wore an ornate headdress and jewelry.
Ivan had a long yellow beard, square shoulders, and dark eyes. He had a long, wide nose.
The king was a huge sahuagin, towering over all his citizens and even elite guards. He believed that typical humanoids, such as humans, elves and half-orcs were funny looking scaleless creatures with odd skin colors. The massive creature had the strength of a fire giant. Like his father before him, he executed many of his own kind, making others believe him mad.
He was described as a bone-thin man with scaly brown skin, unclothed and wielding a scimitar.
Iyraclea had long golden-hued hair. Her eyes had the color of moonlit snow; Elminster considered her one of only six women he'd known to have eyes of this hue. Her skin bore gray and white sigils of Auril's holy symbol.
Izzaxu appeared as a floating helmed skeletal construct-like creature that lacked its lower half. Engulfed in roaring flames, it wielded two sabers.
Jadethread was a tan-skinned man with shoulder-length brown hair and blue eyes. He was dressed in all black, and his identity was hidden by a black domino mask.
Jagaerda was a strong, charismatic, and competent fighter.
She was fairly young for a half-elf as she was still a child as of the Year of the Bright Blade, 1347 DR.
In her draconic form, Jalanvaloss was long and sleek with catlike grace. The spines that surrounded her face resembled whiskers and long, straight hair. Her large, intelligent silver eyes made her face more expressive.
Jalanvaloss assumed different human forms and personas when she wanted to mingle with the inhabitants of Waterdeep. In fact, she liked to spend more time in human form than in her natural form, and so she created a lot of different human identities to avoid raising suspicions. As of 1479 DR, her favorite persona was that of Lady Jalanvaloss, a slim female human with long, straight, black hair and steel-gray eyes.
Jamid was a muscular woman with very long, black hair. She had tall cheekbones, dark lips, and an earring in her right ear. She wore a golden helmet and red dragonscale armor.
Jander was 5 feet and 9 inches (1.8 meters) tall and weighed 130 pounds (59 kilograms). He had angular features but retained the noble countenance of an elf. Jander kept his wheat-colored hair long enough to reach his shoulder blades and it almost hid his ears. His skin was the color of pale gold and he had expressive silver eyes. His left hand was withered and appeared burnt after contact with the Holy Symbol of Ravenkind.
He would go about in public disguised as a leprous beggar in filthy cloaks, coating himself in stinking garbage to keep people away. He always wore gloves, both to hide his disfigured hand and so that his bare flesh would not touch plant life.
Japheth had black hair and black eyes. He was almost always seen wearing his mysterious cloak, which seemed to have strange powers itself.
Jaqon resembled a clean shaven satyr with red skin and green eyes. He also had pointed ears and small, curved horns like those of a pit fiend. He typically wore a weapon harness bearing a whip and rapier, and a backpack.
Jarbarkas had caramel-colored shoulder-length hair and wore an orange headband. The muscular man wore a gold pendant and a green outfit.
The strong warrior wore chainmail and fought with a greatsword, as well as a composite longbow. He was versed in both fighting at close range with his two-handed sword, and at far range with his bow.
The young sorcerer was of medium built, had long brown hair, and intensive dark eyes.
Jarial was a young man of only twenty years old when he was trapped in a stone. The curse kept him alive and unaging for countless years until he was rescued.
Jarial wore a royal purple robe tied with a yellow sash.
Slender, handsome, and tightly muscled, Jarlaxle was the dandy of Menzoberranzan. He chose the brightest colors for his clothes and wore a cape that shone in every color in both the visible and infrared spectra. He commonly wore high boots and bracelets that could be made to clack loudly or be silent at his discretion. He also wore a magical eye-patch that protected his mind from magical and psionic intrusions, allowed him to see through walls and other solid objects and through illusions. He often shifted the patch from eye to eye to keep others guessing as to its powers. Another staple item was his wide-brimmed hat, plumed with a diatryma feather and worn atop his clean-shaven scalp, which was a symbol of his refusal to conform to society's expectations in Menzoberranzan, a society where rank and position were reflected by hair style.
Slender, handsome, and tightly muscled, Jarlaxle was the dandy of Menzoberranzan. He chose the brightest colors for his clothes and wore a cape that shone in every color in both the visible and infrared spectra. He commonly wore high boots and bracelets that could be made to be clack loudly or be silent at his discretion. He also wore a magical eye patch that protected his mind from magical and psionic intrusions and allowed him to see through walls and other solid objects. He often shifted the patch from eye to eye to keep others guessing as to its powers. Another staple item was his wide-brimmed hat, plumed with a diatryma feather and worn atop his clean-shaven scalp, which was a symbol of his refusal to conform to society's expectations in Menzoberranzan, a society where rank and position were reflected by hair style.
Jarlaxle walked with mild limp from an injury that never completely healed.
Jasmine's appearance was that of a woman in her mid-to-late twenties, with black hair and brown eyes. She was of average height and was quite muscular. Sprouting from her back were magical wings that changed appearance depending on the plane she was in; for example, they resembled white bird's wings on Toril, pink butterfly's wings if in the phlogiston, and a leathery triangular single wing in Gehenna.
When she fell under the influence of a dark-stalker persona (actually her grief and guilt combined with a slight glitch in her wings' magic), her skin was entirely covered in hard black feathers with a green crest on her forehead, her eyes turned green, and her hands and feet become taloned.
Jayani had an angular face and trim but muscular physique.
Jeggred was 8'1" (2.46 m) tall and had goat legs. and his eyes were blood red. He had a beastlike face that looked like a drow, and silver hair covering his chest, shoulders, and loins. He had four arms: The upper arms ended in long, sharp claws; the lower were humanoid hands. He had yellowed fangs, as well as rows of teeth as sharp as needles. He had particularly foul breath.
Jeggred did not perform Reverie; he slept.
Jenks had a somewhat stocky build. Like most Turami, he had dark skin. His hair was a darker shade of brown than his skin, and was cut almost down to the roots.
Jergal was frequently depicted as a member of an ancient alien race that resembled a cross between a humanoid and praying mantis. He was a wizened and insubstantial creature, mummy-like in appearance with gray, tightly taut skin. His elongated skull hosted bulbous, yellow eyes devoid of life and insectoid mandibles, as well as a nose and ears barely distinguishable from the rest of his head.
Jergal's lengthy, claw-like hands and forearms were covered by a pair of white gloves. Most of his form was also covered, hidden behind a lightless cloak that seemed to absorb the very atmosphere around it. He also wore a gray, shadow-filled cloak that billowed as if it were being blown in the wind. In his clutches was a quill with fresh ink and a thick scroll covered in an intricate and incomprehensible script.
When Jergal spoke, his voice was chilling and seemingly disembodied, echoing with the dry whisper of a tomb that had long been forgotten.
Jerlys was a beautiful female elf with smooth long legs and she would use her feminine wiles to seduce and manipulate her victims.
Both Jeryth and her older sister were popular and known for being great beauties in Waterdeep, many people, noble or otherwise, seeking their hand in marriage.
Jeryth had green eyes and long blond hair that she wore in elaborate coiffures. Being known as someone at the height of fashion, prior to her disappearance, she favored wearing green and golden outfits to match her physical features. Jeryth was however also known to use cosmetics to an excessive degree.
Prior to her disappearance, Jeryth was known as a rather typical Waterdhavian noblewoman; arrogant, and utterly frivolous in her interests. Despite this, she was beloved and respected for her forthrightness and honesty.
Jeryth had a habit of playing with her hair, twisting it around her fingers.
After her disappearance and rise as a Chosen, Jeryth's blond hair received the addition of a streak of ivory to it, resembling the horn of a unicorn. Along with her physical change, Jeryth's personality additionally altered itself to far more represent the ways of her goddess, becoming carefree like a bird.
Jeryth has however also grown strict in the face of those who would misuse nature, following the most conservative credos of rangers.
To hide her affliction, Jessamine wrapped her body in black wrappings and wore heavy robes.
Jezz had smooth, black skin and pale white hair. He was slightly shorter and slimmer than a human. He wore supple black leather armor and carried an exotic-looking kukri. He also wore a green asp around his arm. His right leg was lame and held in a leather and iron brace/harness, which he limped around in, giving him the nickname "Jezz the Lame."
Jhaele was a motherly woman with graying hair. She once possessed a powerful physique, but her body grew frail in her old age. She usually wore her leather apron, over a white blouse, and a leather skirt when she was managing her inn.
Jhastar stood 6 ft 2 in (188 cm) and weighed 211 lb (96.4 kg) and had brown hair and intense gray eyes.
As a young man, Jherek was leanly built with deeply tanned skin and corded muscles. He had broad shoulders, slim hips and bore many scars from his job as a sailor. He had sun-bleached brown hair and was always clean-shaven. He had icy gray eyes and had earrings in each ear. He was considered to be a very attractive young man. He preferred to dress in breeches with a loose shirt and boots, typical of many sailors. He had several features that made him similar in looks to his father.
However, he mostly dressed with trousers and any sort of shirt that would cover the magic tattoo that was the sigil of his loathed pirate father Bloody Falkane the Wolf.
Jhessail was slim and strikingly beautiful, with greenish-gray eyes and fiery orange hair. She was particularly strong-willed, passionate and extremely skilled in her practice of the Art.
He was covered from head to toe in exotic plate mail and draped himself in an old forest green tunic and cloak. Up close, one could see he was an undead creature appearing to be a cross between a corpse and an animated suit of armor. His skin was formed of rusting overlapping plates of iron. He easily wielded an axe that most men could not lift.
Her legs knotted in sticky strands of web, Jhorganni appeared as a drider with glowing red eyes.
As a noble marid, Jiraad stood as tall as a giant at 22 feet (6.7 m).
Jobal's body was riddle with scars he acquired in his younger years.
A somewhat rotund man, Jobinov had slicked-back, black hair, and wore purple and black clothing.
Joel was tall and slender, with blue eyes, a freckled complexion and bright red, waist length hair. 
On Toril, Jogaoh appeared as an elderly dwarf with a long grey beard and grey hair tied back in a topknot. One eye was blue, the other purple, which occasionally glowed. He was severely hunchbacked, while his arms were withered and thin when he did not wear his strength-granting gauntlets. He wore a blue and purple tunic and pants, and carried a hammer.
In his native form as a fire elemental, he resembled a man made of fire.
Irenicus appeared as a well-muscled, but rather abnormal looking man in the years after being disconnected from the immortal life-force of the elven people. He appeared to be missing the distinctive pointed ears of the elven people.
Joril wore a dark blue robe and a breastplate of silver hue. He owned a ring with a large blue gem attached to it.
In 1372 DR, Josef was a middle-aged man who worked with calm diligence, cheery attitude while whistling a happy tune.
Joseph was a light-skinned man with flowing, blonde hair. He wore light brown pants and a ragged, blue shirt. The ensemble was tied together with a black sword belt.
  It looks the same from the other side too. 
It was a large tank-like machine constructed of wood and steel that moved along a single massive wooden roller studded with spikes. One arm was a fully functioning flame thrower, and the other was an extendable spinning three-bladed disc that cut like a buzz-saw. Its top and back were covered with spiked armor plating, colored tan with brown spikes on one side (with the flame-thrower) and blue with tan spikes on the other side (with buzz-saw), with steel plates down the spine. A fanged skull-face on the front completed the fearsome aspect, and occasionally belched smoke.
Behavior
  Close-up of the Juggernaut's face, displaying user-friendly design. 
The Juggernaut was described as both device and beast, and it was relentless. It attacked everything around it, creatures and structures alike.
Combat &amp; Powers
It was a powerful and robust combatant. While it moved slowly, its flamethrower could hurl balls of flame that ignited spaces ahead of it. Its buzz-saw sliced through anything that had to get close, and it could simply roll over and crush what couldn't fly away. It was immune to spells and fire, and damage to it could be repaired. The Pearl of Power was installed within its innards.
Juiblex was, in short, disgusting, undoubtedly hideous to demons of all kinds and perhaps the most foul of all demon lords and deities. Its abhorrent aura was as foul as its sickening, shapeless form, a primordial soup of bubbling bile and nauseating fluid bound by a thin epidermis bathed in oil and thick mucus.
The amorphous mass was swirled and striated with a hideous mixture of hues, primarily streaks of black and green combined with bilious browns and yellows as well as translucent grays and ambers. Caustic slime of the same coloration was constantly secreted from the sludge-spewing horror and it was known to weep tears of encrusting black grime from the glaring red eyes that pulsated and shifted across it, peering in all directions.
The Faceless Lord was an appropriate name for the gelatinous monster since it lacked any kind of set form, adopting various sizes and shapes with ease. At rest, it was nothing more than a spread-out volume of reeking filth but at any point it could form a simple blob or gather together into a 18‒20 ft (5.5‒6.1 m) pillar of unsteady ordure before collapsing into a rancid wave and stretching out into a voluminous pool of animated ooze.
Most commonly however, when confronted by others, it gathered itself into a hideous heap, a 9 ft (2.7 m) cone of glistening jelly and shuddering slime. No matter the form, it could manifest dripping, trembling pseudopods in all directions to lash out and hungrily scoop up any creature that caught its attention.
K'yorl was a small and physically weak drow. She wore simple clothing and was rather unremarkable.
Neogi were small eight-legged creatures, the adults no bigger than a small child. They had a head with reflective eyes that sat upon a long eel-like neck. With their hairy flattened abdomen, they were sometimes described as akin to a cross between a wolf spider and an eel. Despite the similarities, neogi were warm-blooded creatures.
Neogi frequently dyed their fur and tattooed their bodies, either as decoration or as symbols of family and rank.
As the son of a marilith and a human father, Vhok appeared mostly humanoid, but with light olive-colored skin and silver hair. Most believed him to be an aging half-elf due to his pointed ears. Beneath his rich clothes, Vhok's chest, arms, and legs were covered with deep green scales that showed his tanar'ri heritage.
His skin was finely scaled and he had strong features. He had pointed teeth. He was tall and had the strength of a stone giant. He had red skin that was hot and hard enough to turn a blade. He was also handsome, despite his black teeth. He could fly at will and was resistant to fire.
Vhok's symbol was a scepter in a gauntleted hand.
The woman's occupation was that of a caravan guard. She wore warm, fur clothing as well as a wooly hat and gloves. She had dark brown hair, and two braids ran over her chest. Kaeira wore a thick leather corset and a long-sleeved shirt.
Kagha had ginger hair, which was tied up in an elaborate manner. She wore leather armor and fought with an array of spells, a dagger, and a scimitar. She also carried a chicken and a key.
Along with the elf Narvass, Kagran was one of the few non-goblin members that dwelled within the Shattered Sanctum.
Kalen had dark hair and colorless pupils. Although he had the ability to heal himself, he refused to use divine magic whenever he accidentally shed the blood of an innocent. Because of this, his body was covered with old scars.
In her avatar form, Kali was a human woman whose body was of a dark skin tone with voluptuous proportions and four arms. In her true form, these arms each ended in hands with sharp talons, her skin was black as the night, and she stood 20 feet (6.1 meters) tall. Her face had three red eyes, was skeletal-like, and had two long fangs.
She typically wore very little clothing other than a skirt made of severed hands a necklace of skulls around her neck.
Kane was wiry and very thin of build but still well-muscled. He dressed in simple rags and wore no jewelry other than a pair of magical rings he later acquired. His belt was but a length of rough rope, his sandals were worn and thin, and he oft-leaned on his sturdy walking stick. His appearance was just as befitted an ascetic. No one who saw him and did not know who he was could even guess at his true power and reputation.
Around 1357 DR, Kane appeared to be only around 40 years old, though he was actually closer to 60—such was his good health. Even around 1368 DR, he still only seemed just past middle-aged, though he had hair and beard now white and fraying.
By 1484 DR, however, Kane had transcended the restraints of the human body. He appeared very old—just skin and bones under a white robe.
The tiefling fought with a bow and arrows, and wore a long grey robe.
She wore a brown tunic with red and blue details, with matching trousers. She was barefooted, and had a blue bandana wrapped around her head. Karani had blonde hair and light skin.
Karragh was a burly well-armed and well-armored dwarf with red hair. His ears was split in three braids decorated with golden rings. He had noticeable large bulbous nose and larger than average ears. His eyes glowed with feral anger.
Katyr dressed in green and earth-colored clothing. He had shoulder-length dark hair and light skin. He was entirely mute, but was able to communicate with his wife using a simple sign language.
She dressed in a dark blue, hooded robe, trimmed with yellow. Kaylaar had a dark complexion, with brown hair and piercing, blue eyes.
Kazerabet was a beautiful woman who stood five and a half feet tall. She accentuated her physical assets to fit the occasion. When entertaining guests she donned an imperial robe and platinum tiara, both of which were worth a small fortune. A sheer gown was her outfit of choice for more intimate encounters.
Kazerabet often painted her lips ruby red. Her eyes were a strange steel gray and were said to flash like drawn daggers when she was angered.
Keinen was an elderly man with long locks of white hair, sporting a significant beard that nearly reached his waist. Underneath his armor he wore a lengthy, green gambeson.
He was heavily muscled and had long blonde hair, a long beard and blue eyes. He was a fantastic fighter, with incredible strength and unmatched physique, as well as being charismatic.
Kempana was a huge, scarlet-skinned goblinlike creature. When excited, his eyes would glow orange..
The youthful paladin appeared to be no older than nineteen when he met Khelben Arunsun, even though Kern was in his thirties at the time.
She was tall for a moon elf, and quite petite, with fair skin and black hair that was streaked with silver. Her alluring blue eyes were flecked with spots of gold.
In her looks, attitude and sense of style, Kerri took after her adventurer father. She never let her rural roots overshadow her sense of flair. The combination of these aspects of her personality often came across as a charming, tomboyish attractiveness.
She was honest and adept at opening friendly lines of communication with newcomers as well as negotiating disputes between others. She could be quite charming and outwardly affectionate. This was especially true when the Fellowship had particularly handsome male visitors, occasions during which Kerri seemed to lose a bit of her better judgement.
Kestutis was an aged man with medium-long blond hair and blue eyes.
Of black dragon descent, Ketsarra had black scales and horns that jutted forward. Being shadowslain, she was wreathed in lambent shadows and her eyes held an unholy glow, while her body was emaciated, decayed, and even skeletal.
Kezef appeared as a huge mastiff with unearthly malevolent red eyes and a ratty tail. Maggots teemed in his fur, which made the coat shift incessantly over barely covered sinews and bones. His flesh oozed like pus from an old sore, and his paws left burning prints in the ground that spread into pools of burning ichor in his wake. Pointed teeth glittered like daggers of jet in the light. His blood was a dark, corrosive, liquid ooze, and he radiated a pestilent aura of decay. The fetid air of his breath extinguished all nearby fires, and he reeked with the sweet stench of ancient death. Those with a sense of smell could catch this scent from many miles away. The Chaos Hound spoke in a low and rumbling growl.
Khafaz had handsome features and appeared well groomed. Though in his mid-40s, his lean frame made him appear much younger.
Khalid was a kind, if a bit nervous man, and spoke with a noticeable stutter. While he was not the bravest warrior in the world, he was quite capable of holding his own in most battles.
Khalil was still strong and lean into middle age thanks to his time spent adventuring.
Kharash could be confused for a (very large) werewolf. He was 10 feet (3 meters) long, with a muscular but graceful body. He had black and brown fur that was carefully groomed, topaz-colored eyes, and sharp fangs the color of pearls—and he revealed these with a wide smile. He often went about on all fours.
Khelben stood just over 6 feet (1.83 meters) tall and was well-muscled. He usually dressed in robes, wielding his trademark Blackstaff. As of 1374 DR, he had a full beard; black hair with silver streaks, including a prominent one through his beard; and a distinguished, imposing manner. He often dressed in black with a silver torque and a cape lined in gray fur.
  Khelgar's appearance. 
Standing just under 5 feet (1.5 meters) tall, Khelgar was in many ways handsome by dwarven standards, due in large part to his impressive musculature. However, his constant battles took a physical toll and covering him from foot to head were a collection of cuts and bruises, as well as a few missing teeth. These injuries did not seem to discourage Khelgar, however.
Personality
Khelgar Ironfist was immediately identifiable by his manners or, quite often, lack thereof. In spite of his size, Khelgar acted with next to little subtlety and was easily provoked by insults and threats, though perhaps less out of a concern for dignity or safety than because he actually took delight in such attacks, seeing it as another chance to prove his skills in combat, either armed or unarmed. Khelgar was, of course, more than willing to return the insult and was often foul-mouthed and ill-tempered.
Khelgar was, at heart, a fighter. Most at home in a tavern brawl, the shield dwarf preferred a straight, fair fight to either negotiation or a fixed one. However, Khelgar was neither cruel nor unconcerned with the sanctity of life and had, buried deep beneath his thirst for thrills and adventure, a strong sense of justice. While Khelgar was more than eager to jump into a fight, he wanted to be sure that the fight didn't dirty his name and he often thrilled at the opportunity to act on others' behalf and distrusted selfish tendencies by others to fight only for the sake of profit or self-advancement. With enough pushing, it was possible to transform this altruistic side of Khelgar into a crusader's heart, filled with the desire to do good whenever possible rather than simply whenever it was convenient.
However, Khelgar was not without a dark side. Khelgar was often blind, for instance, to the way his actions impacted others and his ambitious drive could manifest itself as selfishness when he ignored the harm his pursuits for glory brought on others. Likewise, Khelgar harbored deep prejudices of other races, such as elves or, more particularly, tieflings, whom he viewed as backstabbing thieves.
Khenel wore orange and brown robes, with an orange cap covering the top of his shoulder-length hair. He had brown eyes, with a pronounced nose and thin eyebrows.
Khurgorbaeyag appeared as a muscular, 9 ft (2.7 m) tall goblin with flame-red skin flecked with orange and yellow scales, always wielding his signature whip and wearing scale mail armor. He was also known to appear to jungle goblins as a powerful ankylosaurus.
Kiaransalee appears as a sinuous drow female wearing only silver jewelry and black silk veils.
Neogi were small eight-legged creatures, the adults no bigger than a small child. They had a head with reflective eyes that sat upon a long eel-like neck. With their hairy flattened abdomen, they were sometimes described as akin to a cross between a wolf spider and an eel. Despite the similarities, neogi were warm-blooded creatures.
Neogi frequently dyed their fur and tattooed their bodies, either as decoration or as symbols of family and rank.
Kilili had dark grey-brown skin and long, spiky, blue-black and had red eyes. She wore a gold-hued breastplate or dark vest, and often gold or silver mail armor on her arms, adorned with bracers and spiked armbands. She also wore a red sash from her waist and thigh-high boots, and often added a cloak of one color or another. She favored a single gold star earring from her left ear and a gold headband.
Killian's face and body was covered in self-inflicted scars, a practice that began long before his induction into the church. He also wore a black mask at all times, not to hide these scars, but his true identity as a member of the mercantile family.
The king of Doegan appeared to be a mage. He dressed in black, with a purple robe and high collar. He had a goatee and black hair streaked with white. When he cursed Rathgar, the symbol over his throne—a fiendish long-horned skull and ankh—glowed green.
The king of Edenvale had pale skin and black hair and beard. His royal regalia included a silver five-peaked crown, blue robe lined trimmed with white fur and gold, and green breeches.
True to his name, the King of Feathers had brilliant plumage that differed from others of his species.
Kinnuki was a hulking giant of a man, 7 feet (2.1 meters) tall and weighed 360 pounds (160 kilograms). In his old age, his skin showed the papery-thin quality, stretched loose on his muscled body. His skin was tanned from constant exposure to the bright arctic sun and darkened even more so with age spots. His once blond, gray hair was kept long and braided.
His garb consisted of polar bear pelts and skins, with the animal's skull and upper jaw worn as a headpiece. The furs provided him with warmth and camouflage on the blinding white of the arctic.
Kirath had long blonde hair, blue eyes, and bushy eyebrows. He was vain, and considered himself the greatest wizard of the Realms. Despite his arrogance, he was seemingly very powerful, making it down to the lower reaches of Xanathar's outer sanctum alone.
In his human form, Kiril had a broad build, a bald head and a square, black beard that came down to a point.
Kirukeskai was an elder orb whose body had grown to the limit of a beholder and it was therefore very big for its race. It was of very advanced age for its species and was much wrinkled.
She had sharp facial features dotted with freckles, and curly, orange hair, cropped short. She wore a black cloak, and was dressed in a blue shirt underneath her armor.
In human form, he appeared as a young boy only a few years old, with pale skin, a mane of thick brown hair, pointed ears, and cat-like yellow eyes.
In cat form, he appeared as an stripy orange-furred kitten, or sometimes a pure white-furred kitten.
Kleef had black hair and a rather large build, giving him something of an oafish appearance.
The red-headed gnomish woman had bad skin and was quite eccentric, often prone to fits of cackling.
The head of the Bruenghor Clan had light brown hair. His facial hair was parted into two braids and a mustache. He wore a brown jerkin, fastened with a thick brown belt with a metal buckle. He carried a shortsword.
Kordin clad himself in all black, save for a pair of leather boots and a leather belt pouch. He had shoulder-length brown hair streaked with gray, and a gray mustache.
Koresh was a tan, dark-haired and dark-bearded man with a prominent nose. He wore black clothing, and a black turban.
He had a distinct belly that was presumed to be caused by his excessive consumption of alcohol.
Korth was a muscular lizardman with green scales that were mottled yellow, and with a pronounced yellow and orange neck ridge. He wore blue clothing, blue battle paint, and a partial suit of light armor that left his chest bare. Korth adorned himself with several animal bones and teeth, and wore a skull over one shoulder. His head was topped with a maedate.
Kostchtchie was a 24‑foot (7.3‑meter) tall muscular brute with hunched shoulders and stubby, bowed legs. His head was malformed and his face was flat, ugly, and hairless except for his eyebrows. His skin was a sickly yellow. He always carried with him a massive hammer.
Neogi were small eight-legged creatures, the adults no bigger than a small child. They had a head with reflective eyes that sat upon a long eel-like neck. With their hairy flattened abdomen, they were sometimes described as akin to a cross between a wolf spider and an eel. Despite the similarities, neogi were warm-blooded creatures.
Neogi frequently dyed their fur and tattooed their bodies, either as decoration or as symbols of family and rank.
Krevish wore spectacles and had white-grey hair. He also wore a brown and green cowl and held a tome. In combat, Krevish fought with a shortbow and arrows, a shortsword and wore blue and purple chainmail. He was noted to be quite short.
He was described to be the "most loyal Hammer" by Elastul. The tough fighter wore full plate mail and fought with a longsword with a golden hilt.
Kriios had oddly large and black eyes and heavy eyelids. His face typically bore no expression whatsoever, making him quite inscrutable.
Count Amethystall was short, even for a halfling.
He had grey skin and a black ponytail tied with a blue hair tie. He had a long scar that ran across his face. He was dressed in leathers with blue details, and had a blue scarf attached to it. He carried a book attached to his belt.
Krull had his entire shell carved with runes of prayers to Tiamat in Draconic.
Kupalué stood 3 feet (0.91 meters) tall and weighed about 30 pounds (14 kilograms).
Whilst other fire giants have fire colored hair or beards, Kurgoth's was literally made of fire with smouldering eyes to match. Outfitted with coal-black full plate armour and enormous bat-like wings, Kurgoth strikes an imposing figure.
She dressed in an all-red, hooded robe, and wore a golden necklace.
Around 1357 DR, Kyriani appeared to be a tall and slender half-elf woman, quite beautiful, with pointed ears and pale skin, despite her drow heritage. Other details of her appearance varied with her incarnation. The first incarnation of Kyriani had a large mane of long, curly, light-brown hair, with violet or blue eyes. The second had even longer hair, night black and filled with stars, with a streak of white hair in front. Her eyes were blue.
By 1372 DR, Kyriani had darker-hued skin and gray eyes and was considered very attractive. She had long silver-white hair that she generally wore pulled away from her face. By 1479 DR, her eyes were reported as purple in color.
She was clad entirely in black clothing. Her long mane of hair reached down to her legs, framing her symmetrical and light-skinned features.
The Worm that Walks was a 30 foot (9 meters) tall giant composed of a shifting mass of maggots and worms filled with the psychic imprint of a former demigod named Kyuss.
Labelas manifested as an androgynous elf with silver-colored hair and a single misty gray eye - the other was covered by an eyepatch. He wore multi-colored robes of blue, gray, green and white. On rare occasions, he appeared as a mist that aged or, more commonly, revitalized creatures and objects he enveloped.
Lady Chastity was a beautiful red-headed young woman with seductive eyes that were reminiscent those of a spider luring its prey into the webs. She was dressed in ruffled finery.
Not much was known about the Lady of Pain, because few in the city ever saw her, and those who did never spoke to her, or rather, she never spoke in answer to anyone. There was never any doubt she was real, because she had been seen hovering over the streets of Sigil on many occasions. Any who tried to interact with her at such times found their skin erupting in bloody wounds when she gazed upon them. Many others who saw her vanished, teleported into the prisons of the hive, so it was not considered a good sign if she was heard to be about in the streets. Those who had seen her and lived to tell of it described her as being ensconced in sparkling blades. Eventually, she would vanish again into nothingness. Whatever she was, she was not human.
The Lady of Pain was not a deity, even if she was as powerful as one, for she had no temples and no worshipers, yet she still existed. In fact, she refused worship. Those who tried to worship her were found with their skin flayed off.
The Lady of Tides was a beautiful woman with sea-green hair, shell bra, diaphanous skirt, and bare feet, with golden jewelry around her arms and legs. However, in defeat, she was revealed as a shriveled grey-skinned woman with brown hair, seemingly undead.
Lady Quallem had a regal look about her and dressed in gowns both elegant and long.
The githyanki had distinct black facial features, including a thick black underline and several spots. She had pulled-back dark red hair and wore heavy mail. She weighed 45 kg. The warrior fought with a longsword and shortbow. She wore githyanki half plate and leather gloves.
Lae'zel was a skilled warrior, and was considered fierce even by the high githyanki standards.
He was strikingly handsome, even for an elf. He had the eyes of a Moonflower—deep, bright blue flecked with golden lights—and possessed his father's great height and muscular form, topping six feet.
Lana Thorbin was often complemented on her beauty and intelligence, which gave her confidence at an early age. She used her looks and her smarts to manipulate infatuated men into aiding her and she simply outsmarted the rest. Regardless of that manipulative streak, she always made effort to be a good person.
He was a generally average looking man save for the fact he wore an eye patch over his right eye.
Cyanwrath was seven feet tall with bright blue scales. He had draconic features and sharp claws.
Lanseril was 6 feet and 2 inches (1.9 meters) tall. He had dark hair, delicate features, and blue eyes. He was ambidextrous. And he typically wore simple robes.
Laogzed resembled a combination between a lizard and a toad covered in dead patches of rotten skin. His body was 10 ft (3 m) tall and 12 ft (3.7 m) long, made monstrously fat by his constant acts of voracity. He was known to be a disgusting creature that constantly exuded a gross, acidic ooze from his body. Rows upon rows of needle-like teeth were made visible as he exhaled noxious clouds of putrid gas.
Despite her elven heritage, Larajin had rounded ears and closely resembled a full-blood human. She had pale hazel eyes and vivid, red-orange hair. She had a particularly athletic physique.
Larajin was polite and intelligent but her outspoken manner sometimes clashed with her role as a house servant. While she had no malicious intent, she had a remarkable habit of always speaking her mind. Her naive honesty left her a bit at a loss when it came to the complex nuances of etiquette within the Sembian mercantile class and families of the Old Chauncel.



This section is a stub. You can help us by expanding it.


Larissa had red hair. However, she was very skilled in using cosmetics and magic to alter her appearance.
By some unknown means, Larissa was protected from all manner of poisons and drugs that made people fall asleep.
As a lich of such extreme age, Larloch's body was greatly decayed, with his flesh entirely gone and leaving only his white-boned skeleton. In his empty eye-sockets were two orbs of red light in place of eyes. On occasion, streaks of emerald energy moved about his body, and were a side-effect of his defensive curses.
He wore fine clothes that hung off and partially covered his skeleton. At least two dozen ioun stones floated around his skull.
Lauzoril stood about 5 ft 9 in (1.8 m) and weighed around roughly 145 lb (65.8 kg). They had blond hair with grey streaks and green eyes. By the time he was in his late 40's he was still considered by others to have a rather handsome and distinguished appearance.
As of 1367 Lelia's blue eyes sparkled with the vigor of youth. Her long, curly hair nearly touched the floor.
In his natural form, Lendys was a huge, wingless platinum dragon with tarnished scales, and his eyes gleamed with brilliant beams of light so no one could hide from his gaze. Some say that he cared more about judging others than himself.
A fair-skinned man, Lepidius was bald save for a slight crest of graying hair. He wore a red and white checkered shirt, and several items of jewelry.
Levistus's true appearance was widely unknown, as from the outside of his glacial prison he could only be seen as a small black blot a quarter-mile within the mountain of dark ice. The ice was also transparently blue enough that onlookers could perceive his frustrated posture from any angle. On close inspection, Levistus appeared to be a 6 ft (1.8 m) tall humanoid male with dark hair, a neat goatee and an extremely pale complexion, but would be able pass for a human if not for his traditionally fiendish traits; his pointed teeth and coal-black eyes that practically radiated darkness. In the days of his freedom, he wore loose, silken clothing and carried a shining rapier, now donning fanciful garments and other finery when meeting mortals in projected form. When appearing as an aspect, the air around him was chilling and his clothes were always partially frozen and dripping with water.
Liam was the youngest child of the Thistledown family, and was somewhat mischievous. He had light brown hair and eyes, with several freckles.
She was tall and beautiful, with the scars of battle. She carried herself with confidence.
Lilith appeared to be a beautiful, nubile, 9 feet (2.7 meters) tall woman, so alluring that she was easily the most attractive of Hell's fiends (at least for a time). She had crimson skin, hooves, a serpentine tail, small, curved horns, and eyes that glowed white, including her pupils. She rarely wore clothing, preferring to use clinging shadows when she felt it was necessary.
Lilith was known to use her ability to change shape to take on the form of her victims' loved ones.
Liriel was described as slender and delicate, with a height of 5 feet 3 inches (1.60 m). Like most drow, she had black skin and thick white hair. Her eyes were unusual -- the color of amber -- and revealed her intelligence and fondness for mischief. Her face was expressive and often flickered from one emotion to the next. She was described as one of the most beautiful drow females in Menzoberranzan.
In Menzoberranzan, she was fond of fancy dresses. In Skullport, she wore a piwafwi, tight black leathers and black chainmail.
As of 1479 DR, Liset was a middle-aged woman.
A burly and boisterous man, the duke was missing two fingers from his left hand and walked with a limp after taking serious wounds in a fight with Prince Yusuf Jhannivvar in the Storm Siege of Myratma. 
He had tan skin, with long, graying hair, and clad himself in a long blue robe fastened with a black belt at his waist. He was known for being rather ugly.
Lorcan was described as extremely handsome with black eyes and red skin.
The Lord of Flame had red hair, a pointed goatee, and two swept-back and upwards-pointing "wings" of hair. He wore red full plate armor, a red cloak, and carried a red-sheathed sword. In defeat, he was revealed as a decayed and skeletal being with yellow eyes, seemingly undead.
The Lord of Lands was an old man with long white hair, moustache, and beard. He wore a long green robe, a wreath around his head, and carried a wooden staff ending in three branches.
True to her nickname, Lorog always dressed in black robes. She possessed a quiet and almost graceful, albeit menacing demeanor.
Dressed in a green shirt and dark vest, Lortej had short, slicked-back black hair, light skin, and a prominent nose.
Lortimer wore a blue long-sleeved shirt and a dark-gray mantle. He had a thin gray mustache and dark-gray hair.
In his human guise, he appeared kindly and, figuratively, radiated serenity and calm. His head was shaved, and he wore simple robes to imitate a monk. In his natural form, he had black slaadi amphibian skin and bony spikes perturbing from his body.
Lula Redcap was a teenage human girl with pale skin and dark hair. She had the air of detached cold beauty about her. She was always dressed in high black clothes that made her appear morose sinister than she actually was.
In her normal form, Lulu appeared like a miniature elephant with golden fur and rapidly beating wings.
Luna appeared to be a short, plump woman with long, curly gray hair. She was of middling years but fair, with a matronly aspect.
The young goddess Selûne depicted in the Song of Selûne was a slender, beautiful young woman, also with long curly gray hair, wearing a purple dress.
Luthic appeared as an 8.5 feet (2.6 meters) tall, female orc with dark brown skin unprotected by any armor. Her skin tone was lighter around her nose and ears, while her hair and eyes were a dull shade of black. She also had black, 4 feet (1.2 meters) long claws, and was often thought to take on the guise of a giant cave bear.
Lychor was a handsome, slender man with dark hair that sported a mustache.
Lynkhab was technically an entity of pure will, who continually reformed herself as to be the embodiment of desire. Most recently, she preferred to take the form of a voluptuous elf with fire-colored hair and eyes like burning ice. However, she also could see what a creature found desirable and change to match.
Maaril was handsome with dark eyes and liked to wear dark green or purple robes. He had a pointy black beard.
He was a handsome male who typically wore only dark trousers, gloves, and bracers of elaborate design. Maas kept his white hair cropped close to his head and was particularly broad and muscular.
Maastik had a mane of white hair that contrasted with her night-black skin. She wore a black robe with orange and purple details.
Kovri was a gnome loremonger, and as such, was a studious keeper of information. They were said to be an "incomparable trove of lore". Though the gnome was skilled without their whisper jar, Mab used it often, especially to aid their franchise.
Mabda was an old woman with deep wrinkles, wild head of white hair, and her eyes burned with a fire, uncharacteristically for a woman her age. She usually was wrapped in robes and scarves.
Her speech patterns were wild and seemingly random, while she had an animated body language. Some said she had uncanny precognitive abilities, and she often claimed to have seen things that were to come. However, it was hard to confirm and was almost indistinguishable from ravings of a lunatic.
Maccath had very conspicuous tiefling traits, especially extremely red skin. She usually wore a blazing red cloak.
Madae was at first a cleric of Ilmater, but she later became a powerful priestess of Iyachtu Xvim, the hated son of Bane.
Madae had both elven and devilish characteristics. She was about six and a half feet tall, dark red skin, broad, leathery wings, twisted legs and a tail. Along with her clerical duties, Madae was a fighter, and the mace was her weapon of choice.
Maerovyna was a kind and soft soul who radiated internal peace and was happy with her place in life. She had long black hair.
Maggris was a gigantic, black insect, with six legs and two large pincers.
Maglubiyet appeared as an 11 feet (3.4 meters) goblin with black skin and flaming eyes, with strong arms ending in sharp talons.
Magra's name originated from the fact that her face featured one grotesque "evil eye" with a pupil that resembled those found in felines. This eye was the source of her magical powers, as it was for all fomorian witches.
Malabeth wore a metallic bikini and a white loincloth, and accessorized with various chains and white feathers. She had pure black skin and white hair.
The Hag Countess appeared to be a stooped, 10 ft (3 m) tall crone, made withered and hunched by the march of time. Her warty skin looked deeply bruised and was riddled with boils, blisters and open sores. What truly made her stand apart from other night hags were the feathery wings on her back, black and tattered like those of a fallen angel. The Countess's countenance was truly hideous, with eyes that glowed a hellish red, rancid breath that smelt of tainted meat, and coarse, gray hair as opposed to the night-black color of most night hags.
Malcanthet was described as an incredibly beautiful human-like female with bat-wings, horns, and a long prehensile tail tipped with a spike-like stinger.
Malgi Hi's appearance was just as mysterious as his past. He appeared to be a human of average build, wrapped in leather robes and many bandages that showed signs of past wounds or damage to Hi's body. Part of his face was covered by bandages and half of a metal mask.
Malice was slender and deceptively small, around 5 ft (1.5 m), but she was very strong. Her eyes appeared red in the infrared spectrum, like most drow's, but appeared deep green in the light. Despite already being almost 5 centuries old, her appearance was still as youthful and lithe as when she was only one hundred years old. That changed when she had to maintain the Zin-carla functional, which drained much of her mental strength and diminished her physical body, progressively ressembling Matron Baenre.
The Zulkir was a bald, pale, thin man with a tattoo atop his skull demonstrating his devotion to Myrkul. Maligor was five and a half feet tall.
His preferred clothes were the Red Wizards robes of Thaydark red color. The robes' sleeves were long enough to cover his fingertips, the folds hid his body shape, and its hood hung over his wrinkled face. 
  Malik uses his roguish skills to hide from his nemesis, Ruha. 
Malik was 5.5 ft (1.7 m) tall, stout and had a soft, pudgy face. His eyes were said to be bulging. He often wore a turban to disguise his small horns, which were bestowed upon him after becoming Cyric's Seraph of Lies.
Abilities
El Sami was skilled at using daggers, whips, slings, and darts. He always kept a dagger with him, in case he got into close-quarters combat. Malik was a proficient thief, and excelled at climbing walls, picking pockets, and moving silently. Away from combat, el Sami was a skilled handler and rider of both camels and horses, appraising expensive items, and disguising himself.
As a Chosen of Cyric, Malik possessed the power to immediately tell whenever someone else was speaking a lie. He also was able to endure any sort of pain.
Malrinth had light skin, blue eyes, and blonde hair partially tied into a bun. She had a pug nose, pointed ears, and wore an elaborate piece of hair jewelry.
   Mammon, Lord of the Third. 
Mammon's original form was traditionally infernal, a 12 ft (3.7 m) tall creature that resembled a flabby pit fiend with scaly, red-gold skin and wings that were as lustrous as rubies. Although still able to assume his old form, Mammon's natural appearance was eventually changed into one resembling certain yuan-ti halfbloods, albeit 30 ft (9.1 m) long. His lower half was that of an enormous, spotted serpent with yellow-brown skin comparable to swirled vomit, while his upper half sported a muscular humanoid torso with bony spines protruding across his shoulders and along his large arms.
His horned, hairless head was similarly humanoid but seemed oversized. Some said his eyes were yellow and slitted like a snake, while others reported that his eyes were pale and pupilless although his vision seemed nonetheless sharp. Below his white eyes were hideous black lips, behind which laid his pointed teeth, two serpentine fangs, and a forked tongue that gave him his hissing, whispering voice.
Personality
Mammon was an utterly selfish entity that practically personified greed with his insatiable desire. He was a ruthless hunter who would unrelentingly pursue his prey, whether it be an actual quarry or future possessions, but was indifferent to his prize once it was actually obtained, and would swiftly move on to new targets. While his cupidity wasn't limited to currency, Mammon was wholly materialistic and measured worth in regards to monetary value. He made deals solely for the purpose of making profit and otherwise didn't care about the results of the exchange. Alongside being avaricious, Mammon was also megalomaniacal, lusting after power and always scheming to acquire more of it.
The methods required to achieve his goals were irrelevant to Mammon, and he would perform whatever act he believed necessary to accomplish them. The duplicitous viscount would seduce his victims with silver-tongued promises before wantonly and gleefully watching their expressions when he betrayed them. The Serpent's speech could be compared to his schemes in their convoluted nature, for it was riddled with winding messages and unclear requests, meandering even when he was supposed to be delivering orders. Mammon was not only sinister but shameless, keeping his position primarily by acts of bootlicking sycophantism most charitably described as embarrassing. His pathetic groveling before his master was as renown as his arrogant condescension towards his own inferiors.
Mammon's host of other flaws included his overactive paranoia that drove him in his craven and often foolish pursuit of loyal servants. His typical response to frustration, such as if he felt his time was wasted, was to alleviate the feeling by destroying the offender or otherwise tormenting unrelated parties. This was combined with his petty, oversensitive demeanor and overindulgent hedonism to make a being that was practically impossible to work with. No matter how competent the tyrant, it was impossible to stay on Mammon's good side for he had no such thing.
The avatar form of mac Lir was that of a large human male with a red beard.
A muscular, tanned man, Manawabe had reddish-brown hair and facial hair. He wore a loincloth made from animal skin, and his arms were tattooed with images of plants.
Great King Mandoul was the ancient ruler of a region near Waterdeep. He was skilled in magic, and resided in a castle, in which underneath was a vast cavern.
In her seal form, Mantiera had brownish-black skin. The only telltale mark of her true nature was the red medallion fastened around her neck.
Admiral Silmara was a very tall elf of great strength. She had black hair and a beautiful face. She often dressed in magical plate armor and wore a cloak of displacement.
Duchess Haresdown had relatively short, blonde hair. Her eyes were green.
Marjon was a mountain of a man, 6 feet and 7 inches (2 meters) tall. His appearance could be considered to be vaguely reptilian, with elongated facial features, and large draconic teeth. His skin was of unmistakable red hue and hands ended with long black hooked claws.
He was brawny of build.
Marthammor was known to appear as a thin dwarf with a dark beard, wearing leather armor and furs along with a cloak of natural colors (typically green).
When appearing before dwarves on the material plane he was known to take the form of either a glowing blue-white disembodied hand, a glowing mace, or a glowing magic mouth, depending upon the situation.
Martine was a short and petite woman (only five feet tall) with short black hair and long bangs across her forehead. Her eyes were dark blue. She had a deep scar across her back. After her battles in the Samek Valley, Martine walked somewhat stiffly.
She tended to dress in buckskin clothing and wore a fur half-cape. In combat, she armored herself with elven chainmail and a small helmet.
One of Masoj's eyebrows was missing, as it had never grown back after a fireball cast at his feet.
In undeath, Masterius had a frightful, skeletal appearance. His eyes glowed red, and he wore an enormous crown set with a single red gemstone.
Matagar Bugo was a large portly man. He had light brown long hair on the balding head. He always dressed in lavish expensive garb and decorated with jewelry. His face almost always had a smug grin on it.
Maya was slender but strong, stronger than her brother Drizzt.
Melf developed two spells that were common in the Realms: Melf's acid arrow and Melf's minute meteors.
As of the 15th century DR, Melf was over 200 years old.
Meloon was a very tall young man with broad shoulders, blond hair, and pale blond scruff on his face. He carried a tattoo of the Wardragon family crest, which was a serpentine dragon wrapped vertically around a downward-pointing sword.
Memnon's appearance was not recorded in history, though many desert travelers described his manifestations as Memnon's Crackle.
When Memnon's consciousness was present in the desert ground, several things were noticeable. First, there was rapid rise in temperature. In response, the ground would calcify and "crackle". Memnon's crackle was extremely dangerous, as desert travelers could find themselves in a situation much like quick sand, as formerly hardened ground became loose sand. It would take a number of days for the ground to harden back to its usual barren flatness.
At times, Memnon could gather enough power to shape the sands into an image of his old self, a mournful face within a 70-foot-wide (21 meters) sand dune. At other times, he would manifest as a 50-foot-tall (15 meters) column of blazing hot sand and flame.
Mephistopheles played up his infernal image as much as possible, intentionally appearing as the classic archetype of a diabolical devil. He was 9 ft (2.7 m) tall and striking, his handsome visage and charming yet unnerving smile of self-superiority contrasted by his more monstrous features. His fiendish claws, bright, crimson red skin, large, bat-like wings and impressive, curling ram horns all left his hellish heritage on proud display. Another source of contrast was his dead-white eyes against his long, straight, black hair, as well as his dramatic, flowing cape as dark as the deepest void.
Earlier reports of Mephistopheles claimed that he once had an image more befitting of Cania. He had blue-black skin across his heavily muscled body; wings, horns, and claws a deep shade of blue, scales of sooty black, and eyes that were pale blue except for the red irises and pupils.

   The obese Baron Molikroth 
When Mephistopheles was donning his Molikroth persona, he appeared as an obese man whose gross levels of fatness were frankly absurd. Despite being only 7 ft (2.1 m) tall he was still massive because he was wider than he was long, competing with creatures like hill giants in terms of sheer mass. Even when the waddling baron was swathed in clothes made from only the most ridiculously expensive materials that were the height of Sigilian fashion styles, all his foppish finery couldn't hide his ultimately foolish appearance.
Unlike the more extreme followers of the movement, Meryth advocated for peaceful resistance against the anti-spellscared sentiments that were so strong among her fellow citizens.
Methim was in the hunting panther form, with glossy black fur and red marks resembling blood splatter, on the face, shoulders, and paws.
Mhair was a stout small man with tiny dark eyes.
Lady Pemberton was an older woman with grey hair who smelled of expensive perfume, excessively so.
Milil was a consummate performer and possessed a confident, constantly-inspired personality. He possessed an impeccable memory as well as a broad knowledge of lore from across Toril that served to bolster the facile improvisations of which he was more-than-capable. However, Milil was also quite egotistical and adored being the center of attention, and was easily bored when this wasn't the case. He was also extremely flirtatious, with both mortals and other deities alike.

Appearance
Milil appeared as a young, charismatic male with shoulder-length hair, indistinguishable as either human or elf. His clean, handsome good looks were exceeded by hauntingly beautiful voice. He dressed in the bright, elegantly patterned clothes of a troubadour accented with gold jewelry and other eye-catching decorations.

Powers
Along with his vast knowledge of many magical spells, his favorite school of which was that of charm, Milil's singing voice could destroy any magical silencing effects and pacify any beings within his vicinity. He could masterfully play any instrument and had perfect memory of any song heard by him or any priest in his service. Milil was immune to any spells or effects of a vocal or musical manifestation and, by touch, could cause or confer deafness or the specific knowledge of a song, including exact tune and lyrics so that it may never be forgotten by the recipient.
Milil's favored weapon was Sharptongue, a magical rapier he would, on occasion, lend to mortals performing great quests in his honor. He could also conjure a harp of magical flames, a favored display to demonstrate his divinity.

Manifestations
To signify his approval of artistic work, whether it be a song, epic poem, theatrical performance or the like, Milil would conjure a golden-lined image of two dancing hollyphants. This appeared out of thin air or, if on parchment, as what seemed like glowing yellow ink.
Messengers of Milil's influence included songbirds, particularly nightingales, peregrine falcons, calico cats and white steeds including pegasi; conjured signs of inspiration included various flowers including peonies, lilies and red or yellow roses and perfectly formed gem stones. Other signs of his influence included the appearance of hollyphants, aasimar, light aasimons, movanic devas and solars.
Milil often appeared on Toril as haunting music, or a beautiful disembodied male voice, 
that resonated within woodland clearings. He enjoyed planting beneficial visions in the minds of performs and artists that pleased him, which included locations of treasure or the whereabouts of long-lost loved ones. Another favored manifestation of Milil was that of a shimmering radiance, emanating from a bard, poet or other performer who was in the throes of inspiration in the pinnacle of a performance. The sight of this brilliant aura could move audiences to tears, bring them to give generous donations and offerings or act in blindfold obedience of the performing artist.
Millie Churlgo had a soft pleasant voice and friendly demeanor. Even though a tough business woman, she was approachable and a pleasant conversationalist. She had wavy long black hair, decorated with black beret. She wore a bright blue coat.
She was used to passerby merchants and tourists paying visit to the family farm. Millie happily greeted the visitors and offered them samples of fresh Churlgo Cheese.
The muscular dwarf had braided auburn hair and a beard. He wore a rugged green shirt fastened by a belt, and wore golden wristbands. Milzorr wore a dwarven helmet and fought with a battleaxe.
The priest had blond hair and a scar on the right side of her face.
Minsc was a large, bald human. His face was partially covered in a purple tattoo.
Mirthal was a wild elf (green elf) of the Suldusk tribe of the eastern Forest of Tethir, known as Durmista. He was very short for an elf, standing only five feet tall. He also had a quiet, melodic voice, which seemingly conflicted with his great skill as a powerful warrior.
Mischa had shoulder length blonde hair, fair skin and green eyes. She often wore her plate mail armor with blue embellishments and, during her time as an apprentice and adventurer in training, had a practice greatsword.
Mistinarperadnacles was an ancient dragon with an appropriate size of almost 300 feet (91 meters) from head to tail's end. Her scales were rust-colored, muted, washed out with age. The hue gradually darkened to almost purple color closer toward's her belly that was typically covered in gold and gems. Her age could be easily detected by the number of scarred, purple, and violet scales accumulated through centuries. Her maw housed terrifying sword-sized teeth, and large reptilian golden eyes instilled terror into anyone unlucky enough to meet their leer. Her mouth was decorated with fleshy whiskers growing all around its jaw especially on the chin, a casual observer could compare them to that of a cat.
Mistletan's long, brown hair framed his symmetrical, light-skinned features. He had pointed ears, the left of which was decorated with a crescent moon earring. His left eye was green whilst his right was brown. Mistletan wore a crescent moon medallion around his neck, and otherwise wore dark green clothing.
Mitre was a silent and reserved man with an eccentric obsession with the color yellow. He often dyed his clothes and weapons yellow, matching his hair. He preferred to stay silent to the point where he was drawing complex and intricate maps in the dirt to communicate with his teammates.
Standing over 14.5 ft (4.42 m) tall, Moloch had a powerful, almost square physique. His short arms and legs were especially thick and ended in enormous hands and feet that were both cubic and clawed. He had reddish-orange skin and a bestial visage, his huge, horned head hosting fiery, slanting, unblinking eyes and a salivating, gaped mouth filled with shark-like teeth.
Molostroi appeared as a tall elf with dried up and shriveled skin. His eyes glowed with ancient power and his presence radiated impressive power.
Though capable of shapechanging, Monkey’s natural form was that of a man with the face of a monkey. He wore silk robes that were finer than anything found in Shou Lung. Though he enjoyed playing tricks, Monkey was always polite and well-mannered.
In his last year of life, Montolio was tall, straight, and frail-looking. He had long gray hair with a huge, bristling gray mustache. His eyes were white.
Vell had golden eyes, which was uncommon for tieflings.
  Mordenkainen with his staff. 
Mordenkainen had a hawk-like face, with a permanent frown that gave the appearance of alertness and almost anger, and a penetrating gaze. He kept a close-trimmed beard and wore grey, high-collared robes. His voice was deep and melodic.
While imprisoned in Barovia, his hair and beard were both long, black and peppered with grey streaks. When mad, his eyes crackled with eldritch power.
He later changed his hairstyle, favoring a bald head and a trimmed goatee, but lost none of his penetrating stare.
Personality
Typically stubborn and one who did not suffer fools gladly, Mordenkainen could be difficult even with his friends.
While suffering from his madness, he was convinced that enemies were everywhere and he was being constantly watched by evil agents.
Moris was a pale and gaunt half-elf with sharp features and long black hair.
Morwel was an eternally youthful eladrin woman of impossible beauty. She most often appeared wearing a mantle of glittering stars and wielding a shining rapier. She could also take the form of a scintillating globe of light, which was just as much her true form as the humanoid one.
Dressed in yellow, Murlyn had graying, dark hair tied up in a ponytail, and a short beard with no mustache. He wore an eyepatch over his right eye.
The half-orc wore brown chain mail, as well as scum-green clothing. He fought with a longsword that had a purple guard and pommel, as well as a shield. Muthtur's looks certainly favored his orc heritage, having a snout and two large tusks.
As a mortal, Myrkul Bey al-Kursi was described as a reticent and withdrawn individual. He 's thin frame and gangly limbs were hidden behind dark robes, and he spoke in a high-pitched but soft voice.
The avatar of Myrkul appeared as a skeleton of a man hidden in flowing black robes. His wrinkled, lesioned skin and blackened, cracked lips gave the appearance he was just on the verge of death. He spoke in a rather high whisper, though his words never showed enough inflection to convey feeling or concern.
Myrnath had white-yellow skin and weighed 110.2 lb (49.99 kg). He wore blue trousers and brown leather boots.
Myste clad herself in blue robes, with a matching blue headband and blue earrings. She had black hair, light skin, and attractive features.
The only known description of the mortal that became Mystra was of a "beautiful peasant girl" who was just beginning her studies of the Art.

   Caitlan Moonsong, who served as an avatar of Mystra. 
As a goddess, Mystra could shape change at will and mortals who saw her reported she changed constantly. Others described her appearing in a form resembling a multicolored will-o'-wisp. When Mystra revealed herself to Midnight just before the gods were forced to walk the land of Toril, she was at first just a dark figure surrounded by an aura of blue-white light. As she created the pendant that held some of her power, the glow revealed the face of a "beautiful, willful young woman, with hints of a long-borne pain." Mystra's avatar at the time was a slim, young girl named Caitlan Moonsong who had a graceful bearing, large, dark eyes and short-cropped blond hair. Caitlan went barefoot and wore plain ankle-length robes of a dark hue. When possessed by Mystra, she appeared taller and her hair moved as if it were alive.
Mystryl manifested herself in many ways through many conduits, but her followers usually described her as a beautiful human woman with intense blue eyes that wore gracefully refined blue-white robes of fine, thick silk. Her skin glowed and her hair was every color of the rainbow. When being mysterious, she was depicted as a swarm of rainbow-colored will-o'-wisps in the vague shape of a humanoid female. But usually a subtle manifestation was all that was necessary: her trademark blue-white aura pulsing on the person, place, or thing she wished to illuminate. Occasionally this aura would coalesce into a point of light that she used to lead her faithful in a particular direction, write a message, or even cast spells.
N'ghathrod had a wooden peg replacing its left foot, which it had lost in battle. It wore pirate clothes and carried a rapier that it did not know how to use, for stylistic reasons.
Nadia wore a circlet, a red robe and a breastplate of golden hue.
Nahal the Incorrigible was the student of Hornung, the "king of the wild mages". However, her teacher accidentally ended up on Oerth, and Nahal set out on a search for him, even though she didn't know his location. Nahal's spells were used around the Realms; these spells were Nahal's reckless dweomer and Nahal's nonsensical nullifier.
The djinni Najim was bound by an undying geas in service to Baeloth. He sympathized with the combatants of the Black Pits, but could not aid them in escaping and killing the pit master, due to the geas.
Rather than being protected from injury, he had regeneration abilities, like a troll. His specific brand of unending life given to him by the night hag Ravel allowed him to always rise from the dead after a certain period of time. However, with each rising, he lost large chunks of his memory, leaving him little clue as to what he was doing or even where he was.
To counter this disorientation, one of the Nameless One's "incarnations" had important facts tattooed on his back in large runes. These became hard to read, however, as the other side-effect of his immortality was to always bear the scars of combat. In time, the Nameless One was heavily scarred, a testament to how many times he had "died."
She appeared as an arthritic old crone, with skeletal features and sallow skin.
She was a worshiper of the deity Myrkul and knew the specifications of the rite of stolen life ritual.
The skilled rogue had long blonde hair, tied with many hairbands. Naomlen also had a deep scar over her left eye. She duel-wielded daggers of various styles and wore leather armor.
The Nar'ysr, whose real name was lost to history, was one of the Abbalayar, a group of humans so unique to be considered a different race altogether. He had reddish skin and golden-colored hair.
Nasher had a receding hairline.
Nat was tall and skinny for her age. She was deaf and communicated with her friends by using a sign language that she invented.
Nathur's body was made of an amalgam of skeletons of hundred former guards and servants, twisted and fused together in the shape of a winged dracolich.
A stern-looking woman, Nayeli had brown eyes, dark skin, and spiky hair. She had several ear piercings, and facial tattoos on both cheeks.
Neera previously had light blond hair, but it was changed pink as a result of a wild surge. At one point it was even lavender in color.
  Neeshka's appearance. 
Neeshka, like many tieflings, was vaguely human in appearance, though her fiendish ancestry was also immediately obvious. Reddish-brown speckles marked the sides of her head near her ears and two small horns brushed aside her coppery hair. A long, spiked tail also marked her fiendish heritage, which she often waved about. Like many tieflings, Neeshka was also impulsive, yet another mark of her otherwordly ancestors.
Personality
Neeshka had a relatively timid and defensive demeanor, often wary because of the stigma associated with tieflings. She particularly responded favorably to any kindness or support given to her, and often only showed courage if backed by friends such as the Kalach-Cha. Towards males she was interested in, she was particularly territorial at times, and she would have likely shown great animosity and jealousy towards Elanee and Shandra Jerro were the Kalach-Cha male, particularly when they first joined the party. True to her tiefling nature, she was often impulsively stealing, almost to the point of kleptomania. She frequently swiped goods from others, checking companions' pockets, and often would admit to it casually in conversation. She distrusted the Neverwinter city watch, though would still be supportive if the Kalach-Cha joined them, while still encouraging the hero to bend the rules (such as with smuggled weapons).
  Thoth, Nephthys, Osiris, Set, and Sebek. Nephthys typically appeared as a Mulan woman in royal dress. She often wore numerous pieces of gold jewelry as well.

Nephthys could stun enemies with her mere presence, and kill with a simple gaze. She had the ability to raise the undead into her service, and could increase wealth with a touch of her hand.
Nephthys' will was sometimes communicated through creatures, such as golems, or hoarding animals, such as rats.
The face of Nephthys might appear to forces hostile to her, and a golden mist might appear to ward off grave robbers.
A single gold coin might lead to great treasure, and an individual who pleased the Guardian of Wealth and Commerce might experience a shower of such coins.
Nerys was a muscular woman with pale skin and black hair. She had purple eyes, accentuated with eyeshadow made from arrowroot.
Nevalle was a very handsome man, with a chiseled physique to match. He had blonde hair and light skin, and wore the rich, blue attire of the Neverwinter Nine.
Nezznar wore a long purple cloak with a red interior, and wielded a black quarterstaff known as a spider staff.
He was quite intelligent and curious, and had knowledge of the arcane arts. The drow did not break into a combat at any given opportunity, but preferred to first study and understand the motives of potential foes. He would, though, betray his enemies after they had exhausted their usefulness. Nezznar was a skilled wizard, and focused on different schools of magic, from evocation to illusion to abjuration.
The ambitious drow had many spies reaching all the way to Neverwinter, as well as several giant spiders, which acted as guards.
A pale man dressed in black, Nhar-del had blue eyes, a bald head, and a full brown goatee.
Although below average height for an ettin at 12 feet (3.7 meters), Nicknack looked strong and intimidating. Unusually for his kind, his two heads looked identical.
Nicknack was well-groomed: his skin was rosy pink, he had cleanly manicured fingernails, and his hair was tidily curled and combed. He generally wore a brown robe with sandals.
He had tan skin, and long, dark hair braided on one side. His eyes were green, and he wore dark clothing.
Nimor often appeared as a youthful drow male. He had long silver hair and was short and slender with a narrow, handsome face. He was physically very strong, much stronger than a normal drow.
He was a member of the Jaezred Chaulssin, a group of assassins who dreamed of casting down Lolth's unholy hierarchy in every drow city in the Underdark and becoming the secret guiding force in rebuilding a new society and then its ruling power.
He had black hair that was cut in an unmistakable style. He wore clothes befitting those of his profession but had the unique adornment of a nose ring.
When traveling beyond Waterdeep he wore a suit of chainmail armor that bore the symbol of the Chauntean temple-farm of Goldenfields.
Nisar had a dark skin and a clean shaven head. His face was covered in blue and yellow tattoos. He carried a battleaxe with him.
Lord Firemane led his faithful along a noble path, without force or coercion, and never took the rear in command. He genuinely wanted his pride to willingly choose benevolent and good actions over the alternatives by their own accord. He was a deity of virtue, and would never ask another to take an action that he himself would not, including the sacrifice of their own life.
His favored weapon was a heavy pick called Lion's Head.

Appearance
Radiating a powerful, yet gentle presence, Nobanion possessed a majesty and charisma that was overwhelming at times. Even the smallest of animals felt comfortable around him.
Nojheim was a typical-looking goblin. He was skinny and had yellow skin and eyes. Wearing human-made clothes, he was relatively well dressed for a goblin.
Nomog-Geaya appeared as a powerful, 10 ft (3 m) tall hobgoblin with rough, ash-gray skin, cold, orange eyes, and shark-like teeth.
Garbed in light blue, Nonakaniumi had tan skin and shoulder-length blonde hair. He had full lips, pointed ears, and a turned-up nose.
Noora was a beautiful woman but was equally famous for her wisdom.
Unlike most quadrones, Nordom had a second pair of arms instead of wings.
He was greenish-yellow of complexion and was entirely bald save for a long braid of dark hair, and long tufts of facial hair on each side of his jaw. Nrakk wore maroon and blue clothing, and a thick scarf around his neck to ward off the cold.
Nrakka had a dark-green leathery skin with lighter aquamarine speckles and striping on the creature's feet.
Whichever role he was in at the time, he appeared as an impenetrable region of blackness in the shape of a dragon. Legend also had it that to touch him was to instantly die. His voice was said to be the dusty croak of the undead.
Nura D'Agor was a thin woman with long blond hair. She tended to walk around in a red dress and large black cape. She was also known to wear a tiara of mindshielding and a ring of wizardry.
Kitten had brown hair, usually unkempt, and a full, strong figure. She was fond of dressing up in rather revealing outfits, decorated in makeup and scented with strong perfumes.
Nymessa had red skin and dark hair. She fought with a bow and arrows.
Obox-ob was a nightmarish entity, seemingly a cross between a backwards scorpion and a monstrous millipede, with clusters of chitinous, arachnoid limbs ending in deadly talons, erratically clambering about his distended form. The places where his three-faced head and three, massive tails should be were reversed, although both ends were equipped with wicked stingers. His tail edges were jagged and dripped a black venom while his hideous visage, supported by a thick neck stalk, had a hollow, corkscrew-shaped spike at the end of his red tongue. His three faces gave him three sets of malicious, crimson eyes and a vertical maw that housed his tongue.
Odin typically appeared as an older man with a bald head and a long gray beard. He wore a patch over one eye and a gray tunic under a hooded cloak of blue. His avatar often was seen wearing a slouch hat.
Ogrémoch was described as a 50 ft (15 m) tall humanoid made of rock and crystal. His eyes resembled chipped obsidian and his body sparkled with mica. This was by no means an accurate description however, as few could claim to have ever seen him.
The frost giant inhabited the crimson tower of Temple Darkmoon in 1358 DR. He appeared to have gone mad, having been partially turned into a tree.
Redaxe owned and oversaw a brilliant palace, but it had been significantly weathered by hundreds of years of mighty storms that were typical of the region. As well as a magnificent palace, the city of Gundbarg, Redaxe commanded six warships.
In her natural state, she appeared as a huge cresting wave with two eyes like large pearls or as a shapeless watery mass about 20 ft (6.1 m) in diameter.
Mistress Ruskettle was very short, even for a halfling. She was less than 3 feet (0.91 meters) tall. She could easily be confused with a human toddler with minimal effort. Nevertheless, she was a very attractive halfling woman with innocent cherubic features. She had hazel eyes and long auburn waving hair. If her appearance was not enough to sway someone, her singing voice usually did the job.
Olsheirie had long, flowing, dark brown hair, pointed ears, pale skin with freckles, and clothed herself in a forest-green dress decorated with oak-bark designs. She wore a garland of flowers, earrings, and an armband tattoo.
Omar tied his long hair and beard into braids that spun around during his dances.
The creature was a gargantuan slug- or worm-like monstrosity, grotesquely fat and sickly green. It had at least three stubby arms, and was topped by a disgusting face, with pointed ears, red eyes, flaring nostrils, and a massive drooling mouth with many fangs.
Orcus was typically described as having the head and legs of a goat, although with ram-like horns, a bloated body, bat-like wings, and a long tail.
Orcus cared for nothing save himself—not even his devotees and undead servants—and focused only on spreading misery and evil. One of his most identifiable symbols was the artifact known as the Wand of Orcus, a skull-topped wand with the power to slay any living being. Orcus also wielded a powerful artifact known as the Orcusword.
Dark-haired and generously moustached with hints of grey revealing his age, Orgauth kept his hair tightly pulled back in a ponytail. Weathered skin and a prominent scar on his chin were reminders to all who met him of his military past, along with the cold, grey eyes. Despite this, Orgauth pulled off a lordly look with his expensive black silk clothing and a striking silver chain clasp that displayed his personal crest—a tower upon a scarlet field with the rising sun behind it.
Orion was both strong and intelligent—exceptionally so on both counts—which made him a formidable opponent. However, few considered him a very attractive man.
Despite his profession, he was typically a kind man. His ruthless nature only showed itself when it was absolutely necessary.
The Fetcher was rather large to the point of obesity. His imposing size, hooked nose, and mustache gave him a appearance not unlike a walrus. He had broad shoulders and a bulging stomach that contributed to his outwardly jovial demeanor. While most of it was hidden beneath scraggly hair, he had a large burn scar that covered part of his scalp.
As a young man, Ostus had shoulder-length dark grey hair. He wore a black tunic with a golden collar.
As an old mage, Ostus had shoulder-length white hair and a long white mustache. He wore ornate robes and Selûne's Eye around his neck.
The captain was a strong man with black skin.
Othovir was a handsome and charismatic male human of Illuskan stock.
The collection of works of the legendary wizard was a staple part of a mage's studies in Faerûn. Three of his spells were frequently used: Otiluke's telekinetic sphere, Otiluke's freezing sphere, and Otiluke's resilient sphere.
Oublivae's head was that of a luminous fey crowned with horns. Her body resembled a humanoid insect, complete with sharpened armor plating and a sinuous tail that terminated in a deadly stinger. Oublivae's long ghoulish tongue was used to lap up the blood of her victims.
The odd-looking man had blue tattoos over his whole face and neck, even his lips. Ougo had flowing auburn hair, but the top part of his head was bald. He had very bushy eyebrows and a long goatee. The cleric also had a dark shadow on his forehead, wore an earring, and carried a mask. He wore a a blue-white set of cloak and robes that covered his Farr Windward brand on his left arm. Ougo the Strange had a tattoo on his back depicting the extensive mural on the ceiling of the House of Knowledge.
Ougo was versed in combat. He was deceptively strong, hardy, and wise. He wore a full set of plate mail, and fought with a mace and shield.
Oyaminartok's werebear form represented a humanoid polar bear, though her huge arms almost reached her feet. The werebear's hair was styled into thick braids and decorated with metal beads. She wore furs and a murky green garb that was fastened by a leather belt.
Neogi were small eight-legged creatures, the adults no bigger than a small child. They had a head with reflective eyes that sat upon a long eel-like neck. With their hairy flattened abdomen, they were sometimes described as akin to a cross between a wolf spider and an eel. Despite the similarities, neogi were warm-blooded creatures.
Neogi frequently dyed their fur and tattooed their bodies, either as decoration or as symbols of family and rank.
In his old age, Palarandusk still had bright eyes, but his scales were cracked with age and his jaw had turned white.
Pale Night appeared in a shimmer of strange light, as a diaphanous, white sheet that billowed in a non-existent wind, yet never enough to reveal what lurked beneath it. On closer inspection, the contours of the robe suggested a comely, feminine form, like that of a lithe elf or human. The phantasmal figure glided through the air, hazy and terrifying yet seductive in shape. When she spoke, her voice was low and almost inaudible, but her singing was apparently enrapturing and her robe moved fluidly, easily indicating her gestures. Besides the cloak, only white, gossamer hairs concealed her incorporeal visage, preventing onlookers from glimpsing the true, maddening wrongness of her existence.
Pallandra had pale skin, which stood in stark contrast to her jet-black hair. She dressed in a revealing, pink dress with an exposed midriff, and adorned herself with many types of jewelry.
Pan's form was that of a tall satyr with small horns and shaggy legs.
Parwyyd was tall, elderly, with long white hair, moustache, and blue eyes. He wore blue robes trimmed in gold with red gems, with gold cuffs and hoop earrings.
Pazuzu was described as being tall and well-proportioned with unmistakably demonic features, such as avian feet, four wings that both smoked and gleamed with oil, and most notably, a feral bird's beak on an otherwise handsome face.
In life, Pelendralaar was a red dragon.
Perendra had a large forehead and chin, dark skin, very short black hair, and brown, almond-shaped eyes.
Perinsa was 3 feet, 2 inches (0.9 meters) tall. She was fairly pretty, but not interested in such matters.
He had an awful memory, and legitimately could not remember his own surname.
He was charismatic, well dressed, eloquent, and never left standing on one foot. He employed a variety of tools to get the job done -- magic and subterfuge were the two most often seen, but he did not hesitate to make a deal with a whore, break a promise to an ally, or endanger the lives of his apprentices to gain power.
Pharaun was very appearance oriented. He considered himself at the height of current fashion. During his travels at the time of the Silence of Lolth, he moped about the lack of proper hair-dressing and bathing facilities. His general appearance was graceful and elegant.
Anthraxus has darkvision, and blindsight. He speaks Abyssal, Common, Primordial, and he has telepathy. He also hovers and can teleport.
Piergeiron was a tall, muscular, and strikingly handsome man with a firm jaw, and dark eyes. His hair was curly slightly greying at the temples, adding to the man's regal aura.
Pikel had a dyed-green beard with a part in the middle, with the ends drawn back over his ears to join his long hair at his back in a braid. He wore sandals instead of the traditional boots most dwarves would wear, and long green robes with large long sleeves.
Pistis Sophia was a beautiful, eight-foot-tall tome archon. She had an androgynous body with subtle feminine traits. From her back grew transparent, silver-feathered wings that caught the light. She had skin that shone like polished crystal the color of indigo, and her eyes were bright and green. Her hair was silver.
Pizentios was a truly horrid individual who actually resembled a fresh corpse. His skin was clammy and possessed a blue-gray tint. His lips and fingernails were an even darker shade of blue. His gums were almost black and contrasted sharply with his pearly white teeth, giving his smile a chilling feel. Pizentios was mostly bald and had a large belly. His voice was shockingly emotionless, which often caught others unaware.
Plinshree spoke with a child-like innocent and happy voice. She felt deeply for beauty and the song of running clean water.
This young halfling was a lazy individual. His chores and farm work were always done slowly as if he always expected others to pick up slack. Porto dated farm life and dreamed about moving to a big city to paramour lovely city lasses and gamble to his heart's content.
Porto's attitude was inflammatory and he was rude to any passersby assuming they were there only to gawk and make fun of the farmers. Porto often put up false bravado, however his words and deeds were often at odds.
Poseidon largely looked like a large, bearded human. Though his avatars closely resembled him, they sometimes manifested as humanoids made entirely out of water at gargantuan sizes.
Predator was a grey wolf, slightly bigger than Crusher.
  A young Presto. 
Presto was a budding adventurer with an aptitude for casting spells with a magical hat. He wore glasses and a long green robe, and had tatty auburn hair. Presto had a golden sash around his waist that fastened his robe and held a couple of pouches.
When he was older, his appearance remained similar, but Presto had grown noticeable facial hair.
Personality
Though intelligent, Presto had low self esteem. This caused him to become nervous, especially when casting magic or trying out something new.
Preybelish was a 10 feet (3 meters) long dark sage whose longed coiling body was adorned by numerous necklaces, amulets, and periapts, his entire collection.
Priam was tall (6'1") and lean, but with the muscular build of a warrior. After being struck with Imgig Zu's staff of withering his arms were thin and bony in contrast to the rest of his build, but these were magically restored with the latter's death. He had deep, violet-blue eyes and long dark black hair pulled back into a ponytail at his neck. Generally, he preferred to be clean-shaven, but could have a few days' growth when depressed.
He appeared to be in his early forties circa 1358 DR.
The Prince of Frost resembled an eladrin with icy blue skin, long white hair, and white eyes. He continually gave off an aura of freezing cold.
Pryderi had red hair and beard. 
Psilofyr was a wholly unique entity not bound to a singular form, but rather existing in many places at once simultaneously. His consciousness resided within a singular and extensive fungal root system that spanned the entire Feydark. His presence within Mechanus, also suggested that his root system extended into other planar realms.
To make a physical appearance he could quickly assume a fungoid form and manifest before whatever creature or object he desired to interact with. The Spore Lord could not only possess bodies in different places at once, but each could appear wildly different. Known forms included but were not limited to; titanic toadstools with numerous pseudopods, morels with multiple eyes and mouths, rock-like truffles with toothy maws, giant red and white toadstools, as well as blue slime molds with a plethora of eyes and limbs.
These numerous iterations were over dozens of feet tall, long and/or wide and were surrounded by a small field of fungus wherever they appeared. His most well known form among the myconids was that of a 6 foot (1.81 meter) tall, levitating myconid with an extensive network of mycelia drifting behind him. Blue-gray in this form, he was capable of changing color in order to match his environment or his mood. He was often depicted as a kind of fungal world tree with his innumerable mycelia reaching throughout the planes.
Pujik had a hide of distinctly darker hue than his fellow ormyrr.
Purfbin was a portly young gnome with shaggy curly blond hair and black, slightly bulging eyes. One of his front teeth was noticeably chipped. Purfbin wore brightly colored jacket of many pockets, each overstuffed with valuables and gadgets.
  Qara dressed for success. 
Described as physically attractive by many around her, Qara had a comely figure with refined tastes in dress, though her hair, which was commonly ruffled and unkempt as a result of Qara's tugging at it in frustration, detracted slightly from her appearance. She had white cheeks, green eyes, and bright red hair. As in all other things, Qara's disposition and attitude shone through her appearance as well, as she would tend to blush brightly when enraged, roll her eyes when irritated, or move her hands excitedly when enticed.
History
Studies at Neverwinter Academy
She was the child of a powerful mage of some sort who founded the Academy in Neverwinter and presided over it in an authoritative position.
At some point, Qara was enrolled in the Neverwinter Academy herself. She felt it was her father's way of "getting her out of the way" though others suggested that Qara only stayed in the Academy so long because of her father's favoritism. Whatever the case, Qara was indisputably talented, possessing a great deal of power from the beginning of her entrance all the way through her time there.
Qara was aware of her talent for magic and as a result was derisive of her fellow students, though this may have been a reaction to insults from jealous peers, who claimed, along with her instructors, that she exhibited extreme lack of control with her power. For example, Qara reputedly set the Academy stables on fire by accident. This resulted in further derision from the students as well as more condemnations from her teachers, eventually culminating in Qara's decision to leave the Academy, following her subsequent expulsion. Qara would not look back fondly on her Academy days, seeing them as both boring and fruitless.

The Shadow War
It was shortly after her expulsion from the Academy that the Kalach-Cha first encountered Qara, in the Year of Lightning Storms, 1374 DR. As the hero was attempting to gain entrance into Blacklake District to meet with Aldanon, they encountered Qara outside of their "uncle" Duncan Farlong's tavern, the Sunken Flagon. Qara was about to start a fight with two of her former classmates, one of whom of was Glina, the daughter of Academy Magister Jochris. The Kalach-Cha may have prevented the fight or joined in, but regardless, the incident would reflect badly on Qara who, for her near-destruction of the Flagon, was pressed into work as a barmaid by Duncan, who also pushed her on to the Kalach-Cha to keep her out of the way. Qara initially resented this, though she may have, in time, come to appreciate the opportunity to use her powers without the restrictions of the Academy.
The incident also cemented Qara's expulsion from the Academy, though it also led to Glina and her friends' expulsion as well, enraging her father Johcris. The students once again attempted to get their revenge on Qara, though this time they were soundly defeated by the sorceress and her new allies. Johcris tried to intimidate Qara into apologizing, while warning her that her recklessness would lead to her end. Disdainful, Qara threw his demand back at him, which caused the wizard to become further incensed.
In the end, out of spite, Johcris rashly formed an agreement with Sydney Natale of the Hosttower, promising her open access to Neverwinter for students, disciples, and slaves, in exchange for Qara's eradication. In exchange, Sydney offered to create an animus elemental, a creature formed from the animus or "life force" of Qara, for which she required some fragment of Qara's body, which Johcris later obtained: a strand of her hair. Sydney created Qara's nemesis, which stalked her throughout the sorceress's travels along the Sword Coast, weakening her during their many encounters.
While this was happening, Qara proved useful in many ways. While argumentative and insubordinate, Qara was truly powerful and eager to demonstrate her abilities whenever possible, making her an excellent ally against the various enemies the Kalach-Cha would face. She may have also offered to fight in the Kalach-Cha's place during the Trial by Combat against Lorne Starling, though this offer may not have been accepted.
Eventually, Qara's past caught up with her. During the Kalach-Cha's attempts to uncover a way to defeat the seemingly immortal shadow reavers, Sydney Natale laid a trap, claiming to have the Tome of Iltkazar that contained the reavers' true names and offering it in exchange for the Kalach-Cha to come with only Qara and the githzerai Zhjaeve. With little choice but to hope Sydney was telling the truth, the Kalach-Cha agreed. It turned out that Sydney had been telling the truth, but she was also bound by contract to kill Qara and any who protected her. She unleashed the animus once again, though this time Qara, Zhjaeve, and the Kalach-Cha were able to kill both Sydney and the summoned animus, though Jalboun of the Two Blades surrendered.

Demise
Qara may have continued to travel with the Kalach-Cha until the hero's assault on the King of Shadows's fortress within the Mere of Dead Men. During that assault, both her loyalty and Sand's would come into question, the animosity between them driving them as much as their loyalty to the Kalach-Cha. Ultimately, one would choose to follow the Kalach-Cha based upon their treatment while the other, more out of spite or fear than anything else, would leave and join Black Garius at the last moment, betraying the rest.
Whether Qara was the one to betray the Kalach-Cha or Sand is unclear. However, according to Ammon Jerro, she did not survive either way, being ill-prepared for the collapse of the King of Shadows's fortress after his death. As the members of the party fled from the ruin, Qara, if not already killed in the battle between the group and Garius, was crushed by a falling piece of rock, dying instantly.
Relations
Qara also had a small weasel familiar named Tamin.
Qawasha was 6 feet 2 inches (1.9 meters) tall and weighed 180 pounds (81.6 kg).
Qilué was a 6 feet tall drow female of wild, dazzling beauty (a far cry from the sleek, well-groomed appearance of most drow priestesses). She had silvery hair that flowed down to her ankles, and silver eyes (like her goddess) that were larger than those of most drow. Her appearance was so awe-inspiring, imperious at times, that Liriel Baenre believed Qilué to be Eilistraee herself when meeting her for the first time.
Qirmiz was a beautiful woman who possessed auburn hair and a sultry physique. It was said she had the "face of an angel and the heart of a tiger."
Quamara was not always a half-dragon, nor did that power naturally awaken in her. However, due to her skill in the ways of dark sorcery, she transformed herself into one. To do this, she called upon dark magic, and merged her body and soul with those of a green dragon.
The Queen of Chaos had the upper torso of a corpulent, blue-skinned humanoid female, whereas her lower body was a mass of ten mauve tentacles. Hidden in the tentacles was a razor-sharp parrot-like beak. The Queen had long drooping locks of green hair, and she wore a sahuagin skull as a crown. Her weapon of choice was a huge trident.
Quenthel was described as strong and beautiful. She was also noted for maintaining a regal and noble bearing even in the heat of battle as well as being somewhat larger than other drow.
Quintessa was an elegant lady expensively and tastefully well-dressed with well-groomed blonde hair. Due to her trade, she always smelled of present exotic perfumes and scents.
The sage wore white rags that matched his unkempt hair and beard, and had a green pouch containing herbs around his neck. The old man hobbled as he walked, and had a raspy voice.
Rab Bitnez was a short man with dark hair, his skin was tanned from countless hours of work outside.
She was a bit taller than average. She proudly displayed the emblem of Helm on her shield and held her chip up with a sense of pride.
Raika wore war paint over her face, and sometimes a helmet. The strong half-orc fought with spears or warhammers, and dressed in barbarian garb, made from creatures of her surroundings, such as snakes and bears.
He appeared as a dark-haired, lean and imposing figure that seemed younger than his years, with only small patches of grey along the temples as any indication that he was anywhere close to being more than sixty years old.
Randal was of medium build, and was considered handsome with long brown hair.
Randers was a tan, brown-haired man with narrow features and a prominent forehead. He wore a blue shirt underneath a suit of purple armor, and his head was covered by a purple, spiked helmet.
Randulaith favored plain clothes of tunic and breeches, but was elegant in dress.
Raphael had deep red skin, large horns, and curved ears. He wore regal clothing, particularly those colored red or green. He was very good at "getting into people's heads" and leading them astray.
Rashad dressed like a typical Zakharan, wearing a long aba. He carried a jambiya and a small staff.
Rassendyll was over 6' (1.8 m) tall with gray hair and a weathered face. He was in good shape for a man of his age.
Ras Nsi dressed the part of a Cormyrean noble, wearing a sky-blue cloak and bearing a rapier. He had soft features, but his eyes supernaturally glowed bright red whenever he became irritable or spoke of his zeal for the city of Mezro.
After the Spellplague, he resembled a yuan-ti malison, with his torso and face wrapped in bandages, and bore a flaming longsword. He additionally wore a set of bracers of defense, and carried a sending stone matched to one carried by his agent, Salida.
Rathgar was a blond, bearded man with yellow breeches, blue tunic, red cloak, scale armor, and winged helm.
The Raven Queen did not possess or manifest a physical form, instead appearing as a miscellany of symbols, perceptions, and images.
Raxivort resembled a xvart of great hideousness (even for a xvart). His skin was bright blue and his eyes glowed with orange light. He wore silken garments over blue mail, all of which shimmered as if aflame. He carried small, bladed weapons such as knives and daggers, as well as his falchion, the Azure Razor. Raxivort could also take the form of a rat or a giant bat.
Raziel was a muscular tome archon standing nine feet (three meters) tall. Sexless, but with masculine features, he had red-gold and white wings above his shoulders. His skin was platinum-white, his eyes were bright red like rubies, and his hair was made of flame.
Raziel armored himself with a majestic mithral breastplate and shield and bore a massive longsword.
Shipmaster Redleg was a tall man with black hair. He had a blue tattoo of a sword across his right arm, and wore brown clothing over his barrel-chested body. He acquired the name "Redleg" when he engaged a vicious shark.
Regweld was very fat.
Remira often wore a brown hood over her grey hair. She fought with a bow with a green grip.
Rennbuu appeared to be a gaunt, 12‑foot-tall (3.7‑meter) slaad with skin that glowed and swirled in a variety of radiant colors. In stark contrast to the ever-changing complexion of his scales, he also had a long mane of white, frazzled hair.
The cleric had green scales, beige chest, white back spines, and dark red eyes. He wore a holy symbol, and bracers of protection +2. Rex carried a mace +2.
Rezlus carried an ornate staff and wore green robes and an finely detailed choker. His black and white hair hung long down his back.
Rico was a man of his mid-twenties, rugged and strong. He had a ruddy face and widely spaced blue eyes.
Riggilla was lithe and athletic, standing 5 feet and 2 inches tall while only weighing a scant 120 pounds. She had dusky skin due to her drow-elven heritage but claimed it to be due to her mastery of shadow magic. Her slightly pointed ears, however, gave away the truth. Another mark of her drow heritage was her naturally silver hair, which she kept cut short and dyed black.
Riggilla's facial features were harsh and somewhat masculine, a fact she used to pass for being male most of the time.
The fighter was muscled, and wore banded mail and a metal helmet. Rishpal fought with a longsword and shield. His hometown was Llorkh, and he knew the town very well.
Rizzen was described as "handsome but otherwise unremarkable."
Roah dressed in leather drabs with a Zhentarim pin attached to them, and she carried a spear.
Robyn was a beautiful young lady with bright green eyes and thick black hair.
This kind man had blond hair and wore a red shirt and apron.
Roryk was a retired adventurer with white hair, beard, and mustache. He had a vertical scar through his left eye. He had lost some of his fighting trim and was getting a bit thick around the middle since he became a shopkeeper.
An athletic man, Rowen was considered handsome by most, though weathered. He was tall, at 6 feet (180 centimeters), with shoulder-length brown hair, tanned skin, and mahogany eyes. He had a tiny cleft in his chiseled chin.
Roxanna had pale skin and red hair. She often wore mail armor and a blue-and-white-striped tunic, or other armor or dresses as appropriate.
Ruben was a friendly and cheerful middle-aged halfling who often flashed his cheesy smile to the farm's guests.
Still in her mid–20s as of the 1360s DR, Ruha had elegant good looks that were highlighted by her striking eyes, that were often the only feature that was visible behind the veil and shawl she regularly wore. Her cheeks were marked by tattoos in the form of a small pattern of crossed lines.
Clad in flowing blue robes, Rumeltocey had fair skin and blonde hair.
Ryld was unusual for a drow due to his large and burly build.
He stood about five and a half feet (168cm) tall. Quite unlike a typical male drow's sense of vanity, Ryld had a warrior's pragmatism and kept his hair close-cropped to prevent foes from grabbing it during combat.
Along with his fellow Cult of the Dragon members, Ryngoth's appearance was affected by the corrupted mythal of Myth Drannor. He gained draconic features, scaly skin, claws, and reptilian eyes. He usually wore Cultist robes over his armor. He was 6 feet and 2 inches (1.9 meters) tall.
Saarvin fought with bow and arrow, as well as throwing axes. He often wore a ranger's hood and a mountaineer's cloak.
Clad from top to toe in chainmail, adorned with a hooded white tabard with blue trim, he had light skin and blonde hair.
Sabine was rather tall and well-built, even for a soldier. Her dark hair framed a scarred face that seldom, if ever held a smile. She was fittingly described as being "tough-as-nails".
The sage spirit wore a gold headband with a red gem, and an emerald-green cloak with gold woven patterns. He carried a golden magical staff. He had dark blue eyes, was bald, and had white facial hair.
When meeting with Gareth Dragonsbane and party, St. Sollars appeared as a man, short and stocky of build, with huge white angel's wings. He had a very distinctive accent. He wore a white robe, smoked a cheap cigar, and conjured beer for the group. When he vanished, he took the beer, and left only the smell of cheap cigar smoke.
Salabak had a strong build, pale skin, blue eyes, and long gray hair. His face was crisscrossed with scars of battle. He wore dark breeches and a loose open shirt, coat, fingerless gloves, and scarf he could wear as a keffiyeh, all in pale shades. He wore a belt with a skull-emblem buckle, an earring holding a fang or claw, and the golden skull manacle of a gladiator of the Arena of Blood on his right wrist. He wielded a slightly curved sword.
Sallah resembled a small plump earth elemental.
Salmone had tan skin and shoulder-length dark hair. He dressed in all-green clothing.
Samara was covered in scars.
Samas was tall and obese, and wore tent-like begemmed, costly robes. He spoke with a plummy, unctuous voice.

Personality
Cultivating an air of being cultured, the ambitious Samas was known for his particularly cutting sarcasm and cynical manner. He was quite the brilliant man, extremely ambitious and exorbitantly wealthy.
Sambryl was a skilled wizard, who was often likened to her great-great-great-grandmother, Queen Sambral.
Sammer had brown skin and purple eyes. He often dressed in extravagant silk robes.
Samoth was strong and tall and had a dark complexion. He was a very confident individual.
Samoth usually dressed in his artillery field gear.
The lord of Agmoth was a private, somewhat self-absorbed man who rarely appeared in public.
Lord Samulbrar seemingly did not age.
The drow wore a dark purple cloak over his ebony skin.
Short of height, even for a moon elf, Sand was a physically unremarkable character with long black hair, sky blue eyes, and typical elven ears. Often dressed in the elegant robes considered typical for a wizard, Sand kept with him a cat familiar named Jaral. Sand's body language, much like his speech, was wry and inquisitive, with a haughty arrogance that carried itself in his smile. Sand preferred daggers as his weapons and usually carried one with him. He also had a strange habit of sniffing the air whilst meeting someone new, coming upon a new location, or otherwise investigating a new experience, which was apparently a result of his sophisticated elven senses.
The warlock wore simple robes of earthen hues but adorned himself with numerous rings. He wore particularly tiny glasses ad the end of his rather large nose.
Sardior was said to be a unique ruby dragon. In his natural form, he had a long and sinewy body covered with deep ruby red scales. At a distance, he was often mistaken for an ancient red dragon, but his playful demeanor soon betrayed his true self. He was also reputed to be a great conversationalist, and many who met him were unprepared for his sharp wit.
Sarevok was enormous for a human male. His fearsome appearance was amplified by the unique suit of armor he wore. His eyes glowed with a solid yellow radiance.

Ambitions
Sarevok's life goal was to achieve apotheosis. Having researched his divine heritage, he believed that a great slaughter would spark his ascension. To this end he concocted a plan to use the Iron Throne as a pawn to orchestrate a war between the city-state of Baldur's Gate and the nation of Amn.
He also sought to eliminate competition from the other Bhaalspawn in Faerûn. This proved to be more challenging than his other plans.
Sarya had deep red skin and bright orange and gold hair. She preferred to wear her magically protective black robes embroidered with gold. She had a seductive beauty and classic elven features. She was short and girlish. Her gold eyes burned like bright coals, and she had large, bat-like wings emerging from her back.
Viewed through the shimmering effect of her heat aura, Sarya's long hair seemed to flow as if it were a mane of flames. Her pointed ears looked like regular elf ears, though close inspection revealed a slight scalloped edge to them.
He was portrayed as a man with a crystalline face, clear to all who saw him. His statements were clear, concise, and rarely what the listener wished to hear. Savras' symbol was a crystal ball with many monstrous eyes.
The goblin had braided black hair that several objects stuck out of. She wore green rags lined with feathers.
Sealtiel was a beautiful tome archon standing nine feet (three meters) tall. Sexless, but with masculine features, he had large wings with metallic white feathers. His skin was ebony, and his eyes were silver and shone like stars. He had no hair and wore no armor or clothing but was surrounded by a glittering aura.
In her avatar form, Sehanine Moonbow looked like a 5 feet (1.5 meters) tall youthful, ageless, female elf clad in a diaphanous gown, that looked like it was made of moonbeam and dropped moonbeam drops every 10 minutes, that could be bottled as potions of invisibility.
Another depiction of Sehanine was as a male elf. This depiction portrayed the Protector and Sehanine as lovers. Characteristic about Sehanine's willowy male form were his eyes. They showed a sense of melancholy and tenderness when he was depicted with Corellon.
Sejellus was a stout spectacled dwarf with a braided beard. He was a busy and honest man who was always swamped by his distributor job. He was a eurocrat and kept close track of his business. Each delivery of goods he accepted was accompanied with the full payment and a receipt document confirming the transaction.
Seker had the appearance of an ordinary human man.
Sekolah's avatar was a huge great white shark. He rarely sent his avatar forth to assist his followers unless victory over their enemies seemed inevitable. He would send his avatar forth to sate his own bloodlust on gargantuan creatures of the sea however.
Sekrr looked much like most beholders with ten writhing eye stalks atop his orb-like body. He had bright blue eyes and rich, maroon-coloured hide, though a number of his teeth were missing from his bottom jaw.
  Luna, an avatar of Selûne. 
In both her avatars and her religious artwork, Selûne appeared in many forms, like the phases of the moon. One was a dusky-skinned human woman with long limbs; perfect and exquisite beauty; wide, radiant, lime-green eyes; and long, ivory-hued hair that fell to her knees. Another was an ethereal young girl of slender frame, dark eyes, and dark hair, wearing diaphanous robes colored white or resembling dappled moonlight, which trailed her "moondust" or "moon motes". A third was a matronly middle-aged woman, plump yet fair and aging gracefully, with gray-streaked dark hair. This one sometimes lived among mortals; the most notable such avatar was the innkeeper Luna. A simple depiction of the goddess was of a woman's face on the disc of the moon.
She was also ever changing, ageing but ageless. If watched over time, her appearance seemed to grow to full radiance or to age and fade away, in keeping with the waxing or waning of the moon. Such changes only affected her external appearance and did not reflect any change in might, at least to mortal eyes. But, over time, she did indeed wax and wane in power and prominence.
In any form or state, whenever she was in darkness, Selûne's avatar continually emanated a faint blue-white glow like moonlight.
Personality
Again like the cycles of the moon, Selûne had many and changing moods and natures. Her faithful, coming from many walks of life, viewed her in countless different ways, and she reflected this. Sometimes she was enthusiastic, vivacious, joyous, and majestic, given to action and dance. At other times, she was subdued, motherly, and almost poetic or tranquil and embracing. Then she was remote and weighed down by sadness at defeats and tragedies, even those that happened long, long ago. Finally, she could be aggressive and fierce, but cold, and with little mercy for her enemies. These shifting personalities made her versatile. Nevertheless, she was viewed as a calm power circa 1489 DR.
Nevertheless, at all times, Selûne was caring and accepting of most beings, and forgiving of most of her followers' faults. She was both ageless and ancient. She was quietly mystical and, as a being of chaos, well used to change. She had a serene and peaceful nature and was slow to anger; she would not fight if she could help it, but nor did she hold back if she must. She was fiercely protective when confronted by evil. The one constant was her eternal conflict with Shar.
She was generous and freely bestowed gifts and blessings on mortals. She also made few demands of her followers. When beseeched by her clergy, she always responded.
Selfaril was a pragmatic man, ready to deal with all kinds of beings to regain his lost power. He never liked the Church of Bane, however, and thought Jaseen's overthrow was his perfect instrument of revenge against the Banites and their High Imperceptor. Selfaril was a brilliant politician, always portraying himself as a strong, fearless leader who was betrayed because of his progressive ideals.
Like his twin brother, Selfaril was tall, over 6' (1.8 m) with fair but weathered skin and a hawk-like nose.
Sememmon was over 6 ft (1.8 m) tall and, as of 1374 DR, had a light beard.
As it was his presumed age at the time of his death, Sephek appeared as a man in his thirties. He had tan skin and dark hair he often wore pulled back in a ponytail.
Fitting for a servant of the Frostmaiden, Sephek's eyes were said to have been as blue as a lake of ice.
Serag stood around 6 ft (1.8 m) tall with a broad build. He had a scar on his neck that he received from a Zhentarim soldier.
Tan-skinned and with shoulder-length dark hair, Serpé dressed in a low-cut white blouse and dark pants, fastened with a metallic belt. She carried several items of jewelry, including earrings and numerous necklaces. She wore an eyepatch over her left eye.
The king lived in a great stone fort, and ruled over other lizardmen. He fought with a spiked club and a buckler.
Setara was a muscular, brown-haired woman, who wore padded armor.
By his own admission, he was not a particularly tough man.
Shadowheart had fairly short dark-brown hair on the sides, but long hair tied up at the back with multiple rings. She wore a circlet over her fringe, leather gloves and a chain shirt. She carried a mace, a shield, and a black-red pulsing artefact.
She carried a number of scrolls, two of revivify and one of detect thoughts. She also kept handy two potions of healing.
He was quite large, at 6'3" (1.9 meters) and 220 lbs (99.8 kg).
To reflect her inner purity, Shahpesh dressed in flowing, white robes that covered both the top of her head and the lower portion of her face. She wore a golden amulet around her neck, and several bracelets on her right arm. Shahpesh had light skin and dark hair that reached just below her shoulders.
Shaktari resembled a gargantuan marilith with black skin, burning eyes, horns, and eight arms instead of the more normal six.
Shalmaneser stood a hair over 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall. The lich always wore a rotting turban inset with an enormous emerald. His eyes gleamed with the dark light of undeath.
For all intents and purposes, Shamur presented herself as a typical woman of noble birth. She carried herself with a dignified grace, her courteous and polite manner were only seldom undercut by her dry wit and adroit humor. To hide her longing for her true pleasures in life, Shamur maintained a particularly austere demeanor, which often gave her the appearance of years beyond her "actual" age. Despite her demure facade, she was a skilled leader and never held back demonstrating her natural intelligence or skill at managing others.
Shamur was an attractive woman, well into her middle-aged years, with a fair complexion, pale blond hair and gray eyes. She favored tasteful and conservative clothing, even while in court, favoring light blue and gray fabrics and silver jewelry.
By all accounts, Shandra was unusually beautiful, even for a woman of her relatively young age. Though having the calloused hands and firm muscles of a hard-working peasant, and devoid of any jewelry or clothes of high fashion, instead wearing simple peasant trappings, Shandra was ruggedly attractive. Her fine features and simple beauty would be something that many would comment on during her life. After joining the Kalach-Cha, Shandra would take to using a short sword as her favored weapon.
Upon his forehead was a glyph depicting the symbol of the necromancy school of magic.
Sharess was often depicted as a beautiful, voluptuous woman with the head of a cat (especially in Mulhorand).
Shargaas appeared as a gaunt, 8 feet (2.4 meters) tall, ebony-skinned orc with jet-black eyes that seemed to glow an unholy light when in the darkness. He dressed in all black and wore a dark cloak.
Sharna was a petite woman with symmetrical facial features, blue eyes, and long, brown hair.
Shaundyl was 6 ft (1.8 m) tall and had the physical grace typical of a gold elf. He spoke softly but had a menacing edge to his voice and mannerisms whenever he spoke to or about humans. He typically wore black clothing and carried many throwing knives on his person.
  A young Sheila. 
Sheila was very friendly and cared deeply about her friends and her younger brother. This, however, made her fear losing them, as well as being alone.
In her adult years, the rogue still looked somewhat similar. She had ginger hair of similar length and style to that which she had as a child. Sheila, however, wore a red robe instead of an outfit and a purple cloak of invisibility.
Possessions
The thief wielded a masterwork rapier, wore a mithral shirt +2, and a ring of protection +1. She also carried curative potions.
Shekinester was initially a goddess of three aspects: the Weaver, the Empowerer, and the Preserver. She later acquired two more aspects: the Acquirer and the Seeker.
Homage was paid to Shekinester as a full goddess, though many of her worshipers often felt closer to a specific one of her aspects.

  The original three-aspected symbol of Shekinester. 
As the Weaver, she collected threads of knowledge and weaved them together to gain a greater understanding of the universe and those within. However, this aspect had much to do with ruination, in order to make room for new knowledge.
As the Empowerer, she aided the inexperienced and bestowed great wisdom upon them. In this form, she was much more kind and merciful than she was as the Weaver.
As the Preserver, she conserved the spirits of those who had perished. The Preserver did not create life, but was crucial to maintaining it.
As the Acquirer, she portrayed possession and control. She sought to accumulate knowledge and was both lawful and evil.
As the Seeker, she drove the ideals of exploration and learning. This form was both chaotic and good.
The appearance of her avatar depended on the active aspect, though they were usually about 15 ft (4.6 m) in length. The Weaver appeared as a spirit naga crone with a crystalline heart, the Empowerer appeared as an attractive female water naga, the Preserver appeared as guardian naga mother. Her final two aspects, the Acquirer and the Seeker, appeared as a naga attempting to hold on to her youth, and a curious child-like naga, respectively.
The favoured weapon of Shekinester was the tail scythe, and her signature weapon was the +1 sure striking tail scythe.
Her red skin continually burned with bright orange-red flames.
The human wizard wore a hood over her auburn hair, and mainly dressed in white, and sometimes cyan and red. She often complimented this outfit with a mask, and its hood was often furred. She was said to show typical Rashemi pride, such as that of Minsc.
The man known as Shoon VII had taken many physical forms over his long life, beginning with that of his natural, Calishite male body.
In his demilich form, Shoon appeared as a mostly intact floating skull with gem teeth.
In his most recent form, (the strange circumstances of which are explained below,) Shoon VII appeared as a short, young wood elven maiden with bobbed, curly silver hair. In this feminine form, he had hazel eyes, which darkened to mahogany when he became angry.
Diergar had brown hair and a thick beard. Upon his capture, he was found to be starved and stripped to only a rag. He was a passionate cleric, who wished to stand against the villains that prayed upon the innocent.
Shur had a stern and wrinkled face, framed by long locks of gray and white-streaked hair. She was dressed in flowing red robes, covered with a black cloak.
Shuruppak dressed in black robes and concealed the top half of his face in an infamous red half-mask in the shape of a skull he skillfully wielded a wickedly sharp greatsword.
The current Siamorphe usually appears as an older lady of the nobility, her hair touched with grey but well kept, and her iron-gray eyes missing nothing. Her clothing shows the jeweled purple of the true nobility, with a silver chalice and adamantine scepter in her hands, and a tiara carved from a single diamond on her brow.
Silky had a sleek body with gray fur and blue eyes.
Silmarien dressed in a blue shirt, green pants, and tall, brown leather boots. Over her shoulders was draped a purple cloak, as well as her lengthy gray hair.
Silvanus had both an old and young avatar form that he was known to manifest in.
His old form was known as the Old Father. It took the form of an old, bearded human male face, either floating midair among trees or sprouting from the trunk of an especially large and old tree. The flesh of this form was always brown, gray, and fissured like old wood.
His young form was known as the Young Strider. This was a young, long-limbed humanoid male, in particular long legs, dressed in a suit of armor made of leaves and wielding a wooden mallet. He most often assumed this form when a sacred grove was threatened or a circle of druids was attacked during their worship.
Another form he was known to manifest as was the Horned Hunter, an entity similar in appearance to his fellow Celtic god Cerunnos. This form was an always silent man with burning white eyes, sporting a set of stag antlers and shaggy brown fur that was almost bark-like. This form always appeared among the trees, often just to indicate something by a gesturing, nodding, or pointing before disappearing.
Sinmon was a big man with brown hair and a bushy mustache. He did not like the formalities of nobility nor the bureaucracy involved in being one of the Boar's Heads.
Sisaspia had black hair streaked through with gray, and dressed herself in green robes and golden jewelry. She enjoyed drawing, viewing the practice as a valuable means to examine her foes. Sisaspia spoke with exaggerated "s" sounds, betraying her yuan-ti heritage.
Siulajia had bushy blond hair and wore a golden tiara. She was adorned with several pieces of jewellery and wore a set of armor.
The fighter wore chainmail and fought with a scimitar and shield in close combat, and used a composite longbow and arrows if at range. She was exceptional at both archery and fighting, both complimented by her great strength, skill, and robustness.
Skie was very well-educated. She was schooled in history, well trained in the dancing discipline of ballet, and could speak a number of languages.
She was very nimble and dexterous, in part due to her training as a dancer.
The avatar of Skoraeus was said to resemble large, bulky stone giant with granite skin. In stone giant art he is typically depicted as being twice as tall as any stone giant. This race's art most often depicted his hands, with one holding a chisel and the other a hammer. Though the most prevalent depiction of him was as a statue or a relief, the largest within any given tribe's cave.
Slinker was a young tall, lanky human with black curly hair and a lean physique.
The tressym had a mean appearance, with multiple scars and a bobbed tail.
Smiler was an evil eladrin warlord who was said to have an unnerving grin.
Solom was a middle-aged drow with a fine fashion sense and an air of hedonism. He was ruggedly handsome, though not especially muscular, and wore a gold hoop in his left ear. His garb consisted of black trousers tucked into knee-high black leather boots, and a billowing purple shirt unbuttoned halfway down. A fine gold headband (his heaband of intellect) held his long white hair back from his face, and the sleeves of his shirt were tucked into elaborate gold bracers (his bracers of armor) A fine black cloak (his cloak of charisma) completed the ensemble. He smelt of perfume and incense.
Solonor manifested as a lean &amp; muscular male elf clad in a cloak of leaves. Wolf, a Beast Totem Spirit worshiped by wild elves, was often depicted at the side of Solonor in religious iconography.
Galt was usually described as sunken-eyed, cold distant person. Because of the modifications done to him by the Abolethic Sovereignty, his body was able to morph and 
Soren was 5 feet and 9 inches (1.7 meters) tall and weighed 175 pounds (79 kilograms). Though small and light, he had surprising power and grace, and great stamina. His hair was short, wavy, and blond, and he had pale blue eyes. He was clean-shaven but with a thick moustache with ends drooping past his mouth.
He had number of tattoos to represent the groups he was a member of. Above each collarbone was a flaming sabre symbol of the Red Brigade. A snake to represent the Vipers was wrapped around his neck from jugular to the base of his skull.
With mottled green skin and jet black hair, Sythillis is a giant among even the ogre magi, standing just under 16 feet (4.8m) tall and weighing nearly two tons. His short, red horns are encircled in mithral-laced arcane runes.
The Spirit of the Forest appeared much larger than a humanoid. It had huge, stag-like horns and a human-like body.
Splugoth had one pale eye.
Squiddly had a slender build. He had red skin, a long tail, and the horns common of tieflings. His left eye was covered by a black eye patch.
Ssendam's primary form was that of a huge, golden amoeba, a 20 ft (6.1 m). gelatinous mass of oozing, glistening chaos with four pseudopods and a brain in place of a nucleus.
Though they had two other forms, Ssendam rarely used them. When near the Spawning Stone in Limbo, they appeared as a large, golden slaad, and sometimes, when on the Material Plane, they took on a humanoid form. Some reports described this form as an unarmored man while others described a gold-skinned, elven, warrior woman.
The regal dwarf wore a gold and crimson robe, and held a jeweled walking stick. He also wore a ring, two pendants, and a purple beret. Steelfist had a large nose and a grey beard.
A young woman, she had midnight-black eyes and hair.
She had tan skin and black hair with red stripes. Her eyes were green, and she had a red facial tattoo on her forehead. She was dressed in light robes with gold trim, fastened at the waist with a belt. Her hands and ankles were covered in red bandages, and she wore sandals on her feet.
The giant eagle had a brown cloak of feathers over most of his body, which were lighter around the head, neck and chest. He had a keen black eyes, an extremely sharp, yellow-brown beak and mighty, razor-edged talons.
Storm was 6 feet, 2 inches tall and kept the silver hair she shared with her sisters so long that it came down to her knees. Also like her sisters, she was astonishingly beautiful and had a regal bearing even while wearing road-stained leathers.
When Sune appeared to the mortals of Faerûn she wore only a near-transparent gown. She was known for her lustrous red hair that draped down to the ground, her eyes of shining emeralds and ruby red plump lips.
Surtur looked like an immensely large fire giant with crackling flames in place of hair and eyebrows.
Susprina was a beautiful drow lady with white hair and ruby red eyes. She had delicate features.
Clad in sparse tribal clothing, Swendi had short-cropped black hair and deeply tanned skin.
Szass Tam was tall, his face had fine-boned, intellectual features with dark eyes and a wispy black beard. He wore a vermilion robe with voluminous sleeves trimmed with gems and gold. He was gaunt and pale, but only his withered hands and the hint of dry rot occasionally wafting from his person truly attested to his lichdom. He often had an ebony staff with him. During the Spellplague, Tam's undead nature was apparent to every onlooker since the chaos rendered his magical powers close to useless thus hindering the lich from altering his burned and ruined appearance.
T'Laan had pale, alabaster skin, and was dressed in black, gold, and purple clothing. His shoulder-length hair was entirely black save for a streak of white near his left temple. He wore an amulet around his neck that was shaped like a gauntleted hand.
Neogi were small eight-legged creatures, the adults no bigger than a small child. They had a head with reflective eyes that sat upon a long eel-like neck. With their hairy flattened abdomen, they were sometimes described as akin to a cross between a wolf spider and an eel. Despite the similarities, neogi were warm-blooded creatures.
Neogi frequently dyed their fur and tattooed their bodies, either as decoration or as symbols of family and rank.
The paladin had scarlet hair, and teal eyes. She wore a plate mail +2, a ring of feather falling, and a holy symbol. Tabitha carried a long sword +2.
The Ioulaum's longevity spell she cast more than a millennium before had kept her looking like a petite, impish, blond, teenaged girl, except for her dark expressive eyes, which betrayed the weight of her years.
Taern was tall and gray-bearded, appearing grave and thoughtful most of the time.
Taffy was a hulking muscular man with a vacant expression on his face.
Taharak cut an impressive figure in his full plate armor, even more so when wearing his leering skull helm and astride his nightmare steed. In battle, Taharak wielded a spiked chain.
Talantra stood 5 ft 6 in (168 cm), weighed 122 lb (55 kg), and had auburn hair and green eyes.
Talarenne was a tall athletic woman with long flowing dark brown hair who often had a mischievous smile on her face.
Talbot was tall and muscular, with thick black hair and beard and gray eyes.
Talisid was a golden-maned leonal of muscular build and regal poise. At 9 feet (2.7 meters) in height, he was much taller than the average leonal, who stood closer to 6 feet (1.8 meters). His eyes were piercing and dark.
The "Leonal Prince" clothed himself in robes of elegant craftsmanship.
Talos appeared as a broad-shouldered, bearded man with one good eye. He wore half-plate armor over black leather and black leather gloves. His empty eye socket was filled with whirling stars and covered with a dark eye patch. When he appeared in Calimshan, he often took the form of a dusky-skinned, turbaned genie rising out of a sandstorm.
The half-elf had short dark hair and wore a grey jerkin. He appeared to be very cautious, and fought with a sword and shield.
In her natural form, Tamara was a huge, wingless platinum dragon with burnished scales, slightly smaller than Lendys. She radiated a comfortable aura of warmth and love, her eyes shining with the brightness of the sun itself.
Tamoko was under five feet (one and a half meters) tall, with smooth skin and physical strength.
Tanalasta was thin and stood 6 feet (180 centimeters) tall. Tanalasta had long dark brown hair and blue eyes. Some found her rather plain and delicate in appearance, while others found her exceptionally beautiful.
Tanglor, while being a half-elf, looked surprising dwarven. He had a bushy brown beard, and donned a dwarven helmet. He owned some enchanted equipment, including his short sword and shield. He fought with a dagger and wore full plate mail, along with using his holy symbol to cast priestly magic.
Tannous was lean from frequent exercise and appeared younger than he really was. He was always armed and preferred wearing somber, plum-hued clothing that he imported from Muluk.
Still in her early 20s, Tanya was young and stunningly beautiful. She had rich sable hair and dark eyes that she accented further with kohl. Her favorite color was yellow, and she often wore garments and gold jewelry of this color. Her hands and feet were dyed with henna.
Taran was an upbeat person of slender elven build with long blonde hair and blue eyes. He loved nature and the forest and would defend it with his life if the need arose. He was a talented musician and often stood outside of his home, playing a flute. The Freedale townsfolk, and especially kids, favored his music.
Tardeth was considered a handsome man, tall, with broad shoulders. He preferred to wear leathers, but if he knew that combat was evident, he would gear up in chainmail instead.
Targaraene looked like a large, powerful horse with a pale white coat. Flames wreathed its hooves and flared from its nostrils.
Targaraene was stronger and heartier than an average nightmare.
Tartyron habitually wore a suit of black full plate armor, with a ragged black cloak and a helm with a fanged skull-like face and horns.
Tatyana was extraordinarily beautiful. She had auburn hair.
He stood over 7 ft (2.1 m) tall, weighed about 350 lb (160 kg) and had strength enough to wield some two-handed weapons in one hand.
Tavis had dark eyes and was said to have stood 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed around 800 pounds (360 kilograms).
Tebessa kept her hair short and rarely combed it. Her face was weathered from long exposure to the sun, framing her fiery green eyes. Though she lead the hard life of a desert nomad, Tebessa looked far younger than her 80 years.
The lower half of her body resembled that of a stout pony with the slim legs of a gazelle.
Teirflin kept his head shaved. He fought with two swords.
Instead of looking like a typical gnoll, Tekeli-li resembled a striped hyena more than a typical spotted one. As such, the vampire had raised hair stemming from his back and was far skinnier. He also had earrings made from whale bones, and was often covered in blood.
Telos was comatose and immobile during the 15th century DR. However, his dreams and unconscious thoughts were known by at least some members of the Warlock Knights.
Telos' body was made of ironfell, a magical metal-like substance which he would quickly regenerate if it was removed from him. This material was mined extensively by the Warlock Knights to make their weapons, armor, and distinctive rings.
Tenser was a notable wizard who made his mark upon the Realms, alongside Bigby, Elminster, the Simbul, Mordenkainen, and Khelben. Two of his spells were widely used across Faerûn and beyond: Tenser's transformation, and Tenser's floating disk.
Tessaril stood 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall, with a slim build. Quite strong and agile, she moved gracefully and quiet. She had ash-blond hair. She typically wore plain dark robes or a leather jacket with riding breeches, but for battle she had a suit of chain mail.
He was always damp, but not bothered by that.
Thalamra was barrel-chested and had broad forearms thanks to the years she spent performing manual labor. Through her own efforts, she eventually rose through the city's bureaucracy to become the Master of Drains and Underways.
Thalamon was quite handsome, with wavy black hair and eyes of a deep green. He was rather short and slender, like his father
He was quite vapid in his youth, fussing over fashion, revels and other excesses of aristocracy rather than attending to family business.
Thantan was charismatic to the point of seeming arrogant.
Tharbas was a golem constructed from goliath bodyparts.
Thard appeared as a 6 ft (1.8 m) tall dwarf with dark skin covered by tattoos. When looking upon the potbellied, feral-looking creature, naked but for his long beard and thick, matted tufts of hair covering his torso, few would suspect Thard Harr to be a member of the Morndinsamman. Hiding his face was an ornate copper helm fashioned in the shape of a crocodile head and festooned with dangling teeth the Disentangler had supposedly torn from his kills.
By the 1490s DR, Thavius was an old man. However, his shadow was not of a man but of a horned fiend, pudgy with small wings—a very real shadow of his guilt and one he could not cover up with a lie. This was to be his form as a devil: a paunchy horned amnizu with small wings.
Thazienne's right wrist was scarred by a dog attack that happened when she was a child. She kept the wound a secret until it got infected. Her mother, Shamur Uskevren, asked the healer to leave the scar as a reminder of Tazi's foolishness.
In 1373 DR, she received a mark of Szass Tam on her left shoulder, the symbol of interlocking arms, one human and one skeletal. The mark bore magic that gave Thazi thee ability to lead an army of Juju zombies. The magic tattoo was damaged in the following battle with Eltab and remained on her faded to almost a smudge.
Thear's face was dominated by a sizable nose, framed by a mane of shoulder-length white-and-gray hair with a matching beard. He wore dark green robes underneath his armor.
Thelbaerone was past middle age and what little hair she had left was wispy and glossy white. She had an aquiline nose, a jutting chin, and intense green eyes that flashed with authority. She typically wore sturdy, high-heeled boots.
Clad in brown robes and a green cloak, Theras had lengthy brown hair, partially worked into a braid over his right ear.
Thestus was an old man with long gray hair, mustache, and beard and pale eyes. He wore purple robes and a gold earring in his left ear.
Pwent was known for wearing vicious-looking spiked armor. He was also known for having never taken a bath. He had an odor so foul that even other dwarves avoided standing too close to him. In one instance, Catti-brie rubbed his head in a fond manner and ended up with a film of stinking filth on her hand.
Like many shadar-kai, Thieraven had pale skin that bore many tattoos.
The ancient white was at least several hundreds of years old, and prior to 1358 DR, had not been sighted for many centuries.
He was highly resistant to magic, and totally immune to cold, death magic, and all poisons. Thlaaklauthimir caused his foes to flee in fear.
Thogaf was a tan-skinned man with long, brown hair, dressed in a green shirt. He had blue eyes, and slightly elongated ears.
Threlked appeared somewhat grizzled, having grey hair and a bald upper head. He often wore his armor and held his sword in hand.
Neogi were small eight-legged creatures, the adults no bigger than a small child. They had a head with reflective eyes that sat upon a long eel-like neck. With their hairy flattened abdomen, they were sometimes described as akin to a cross between a wolf spider and an eel. Despite the similarities, neogi were warm-blooded creatures.
Neogi frequently dyed their fur and tattooed their bodies, either as decoration or as symbols of family and rank.
Thrull was a particularly large example of his kind with green-black skin, pointed ears, and prominent, pale eyes.
Thrym appeared as an exceptionally large frost giant. He typically wore chainmail and a coat made of white fur.
Thuba favored wearing yellow robes.
Thurghom dressed in magic rhino hide and carried a large magic shield of wood. He often fought with a flame blade, which he created with his druidic magic.
Tiamat was a unique chromatic dragon, who had one head for each primary color of the most common species of chromatics (black, blue, green, red, white). Each head was able to operate entirely independently of each other and had the powers of a member of the respective race of dragonkind. Her body also had traits in common with a wyvern, including a long tail tipped with a venomous stinger.
She also had three main avatars. The Dark Lady was a mulan woman with long dark hair and completely black eyes. She always wore dark robes and frequently had a seductive smile on her face.
The Chromatic Dragon was a dragon with stubby legs and five heads that could be any combination of head belonging to a chromatic dragon, the skin of each merged into three stripes -- blue-green, gray and purple before they merged again into brown skin that covered her tail. Sometimes, The Chromatic Dragon appeared in the form of Tchazzar when manifesting in Chessenta. The Undying Queen was a dracolich version of The Chromatic Dragon.
Tiamat had three manifestations in Avernus as well, one of which never left the gate to Dis. Her manifestation as Azharul was her other 'public' face used for when foes challenged her to combat, meanwhile her original body remained secluded in her lair.
He had tan skin, a brown beard with no mustache, and wore a metal helmet.
Tiralaylee's personality was somewhat similar to that of her home, the Savage Frontier. She was restless, aggressive, and preferred to fight rather than negotiate.
Though Tisan could take any shape she wished, in her natural form she was a heavily muscled fair-skinned Zakharan who appeared to be in her late thirties. She wore her jet-black hair tied back in a single braid that almost reached to the floor.
Her garments of choice were short-sleeved robes cut to expose the intricate golden tattoos that covered her hands, arms, legs, neck and face. These tattoos were not just decorative works of art but powerful geoglyphs. One of these tattoos contained the magic of the lifeproof spell. The geoglyphs would flash gold and red light when actively protecting Tisan. One of Tisan's hand geoglyphs was used to summon an incredibly strong earth monolith.
Titivilus resembled a 5.5‑foot-tall (1.7‑meter) satyr with pale skin and bat-like wings.
Although he was biologically young, Tolivast had the aspect of a balding old man as a consequence of his use of necromancy.
Torg was a fierce-looking dwarf with hard, closely-set eyes. He had a thick black beard that he kept divided into two neat forks, bound with gold chain.

Titles &amp; Heraldry
Torg was ironlord of Earthfast, and referred to as "ironlord" or "king". He had a long list of other titles.
Torg's symbol was a red phoenix, with wings displayed and elevated, carrying a red warhammer in its claws over a black background. Thus his colors were red and black; Azoun IV decided they represented "blood and thunder".
Torg and his elite guard all wore a black surcoat emblazoned with the phoenix-and-hammer symbol.
Like many in Helm's Hold, the imposing goliath was afflicted with a spellscar. After becoming involved with cults that arose in Helm's Hold Torlgar allowed himself to be transformed into a foulspawn, a process that turned parts of his flesh entirely inside-out.
Torrgeir appeared to step up as the speaker of the clan when their leader, Kolgrim, had not returned.
The dwarf was bald and had a stringy brown beard with a single large braid that had several rings attached to it. He wore a brown-blue jerkin with blue bracers.
Bob had long, brown hair, light skin, and wore a purple tunic with green pants.
Tranjer had thick light brown hair and a beard. He wore plate mail armor that had a blue tint, and a black and green cloak. Rolsk also owned a longsword with a shining blue crossguard.
Unlike others of his kind, Trepsin had four arms.
Triel was less than 5 feet tall, short -- even by drow standards -- but broad and strong. She was not particularly attractive compared to many other drow elves, either, but made up for this with her ferocity and ambition (which are often seen as attractive traits in drow society). She typically wore her white hair braided in a crown around her head.
Triel often wore a tunic with five black spiders embroiled in silver to proclaim her rank.
Tristan was a dashing man with a thick beard and dark brown hair.
Trobriand was tall and very thin. He had long grey hair and was clean-shaven. He appeared to be frail but despite this, his magic kept his physical condition good.
Tall and gaunt, Tsabrak was a hunched drow that supported himself with a staff topped with a gnarled hand. Draped across his form was a robe of black silk that had ornately decorated collar and shoulder.
She believed herself to be on the verge of being made a True Soul by her commander Dror Ragzlin.
Tudo was young and quite handsome.
Tufala has chestnut-colored hair.
Tulgar had long grey-black hair and a beard. He dressed in purple attire and a brown leather vest.
When Tulrun was a weretiger, he was tall and powerfully built, with pale skin that was covered in fine red and white hairs, striped like a tiger's. He had bright blue eyes, and wore his red hair long and unkempt with a red goatee beard that stretched beyond his chest.
When he was a tiefling, Tulrun was instead a short, slender man with fine features, red scaly skin and short white hair. His hands had turned into talons.
He tended to wear a thick, wolfskin jacket and bearskin leggings along with a woollen kilt. He was most often seen bearing a roughly hewn ironwood staff shaped like a large cat, a necklace of totems and a pair of mithral bracers in the shape of tiger's heads with sapphires for eyes.
A dark-skinned male with shoulder-length, white hair, Turiel's features were marred by gray-blue lines caused by his divine heritage. He wore ceremonial plate mail and a stylized mask representing his deity, Bahamut. His weapon of choice was a staff in the shape of a metallic dragon.
Turin was an unattractive man by most standards. His features included a huge nose, droopy eyes and huge ears. A disease he suffered from as a child left his body completely devoid of hair.
Typically outfitted in chainmail barding and metal blades along its tusks, it was an enormous war elephant. Larger than other elephants, Tusk was covered in an unusual scaly hide.
Two Llamas had tan fur with gray stripes.
  Tyche, in her human form 
In her natural form, Tyche was described as a tall woman with a willowy build, blond hair, and deep blue-green eyes. However, other accounts described her as a rather small, slim, yet agile elfin human. She was known for her ability to change her shape at will.
When she manifested in the mortal realm, she did it in different forms that depended on if she brought good or ill luck. When appearing to grant good fortune, she often took the form of a silver eagle or a silver pegasus. Sometimes, she also manifested as a silver glow that was evident only to gamblers she favored and not those around them. When this happened,
something favorable would happen in regard to the wager.
When appearing to herald misfortune, she preferred to appear as a 12-foot-tall giant female with her skin a purplish hue brought on by hysteria, wreathed in snow-white, swirling hair, with her features twisted into a sneer of madness while laughing maniacally. Or sometimes she manifested merely as a grotesque shadow where no shadows should be, accompanied by faint, far-off, maniacal laughter.
Realm
Tyche shared the plane of Olympus with the rest of the gods of the Olympian pantheon. Her realm was a grand villa with a gambling hall.
When Tyche died, her realm began to slowly disappear.
  A depiction of Tyr from other worlds, incorrectly showing his left hand missing. 
Tyr was portrayed as blind or with a bloody bandage over his eyes and missing his right hand, for which he bore his title of the Maimed God. (His title of the Even-Handed, though it referred to his position of god of justice, was also seen as dark humor.) His wounded eyes were seen as symbolic of "blind justice" and the sometimes cost of living a lawful life.
He usually was shown as a burly, noble warrior with a powerful build and a bearded face.
When an avatar of Tyr appeared to his followers, his eyes (or eye) were at first the color of bright steel, but they faded away to empty sockets before the avatar vanished. His brow always shone with a white radiance or halo, leaving no doubt as to his divine nature.
He was often shown wielding a powerful magic sword or warhammer and dressed in light armor or chainmail. He did not try to hide or bandage his stump.
Abilities
Tyr was said to be able to instantly perceive any thief coming near him and to see invisible objects and persons. He could create magical items that also bore such powers. He always knew anyone's moral and ethical viewpoint and could detect any lies. Tyr was immune to all illusions, fear, or magics affecting one's emotions.
If casting magic, Tyr never used damaging necromantic spells. His spells from the law sphere were three times as powerful as normal.
Tyr was powerful enough to grant his clerics their spells even if they traveled to another crystal sphere. However, not all deities were powerful enough to do this, and if one of his clerics found her- or himself in the presence of a cleric of one of these lesser powers, Tyr would only grant spells of the same power as those granted by the other weaker cleric. He did this out of a sense of fairness.
A heavily muscled man, Udall had a short, brown beard with no mustache. He clad himself in chainmail and leather, and wore a metal helmet.
As a commander, Ravengard was a true warrior at heart and always took quick and relentless action in battle.
Ulgulu was a huge purple-skinned goblin-like creature with glowing orange eyes. He was bigger than his brother Kempfana.
Ulutiu's avatar appeared as a human with incredibly deep blue eyes, black hair, and icy blue skin. He had a round face, a flat nose, and small ears. He was rather short and had thick limbs and digits. While his avatar had always had an immunity to cold, after his imprisonment he developed an aura of deadly cold as well. He often appeared with a huge spear called the Harpoon of the Cold Sea.
He occasionally manifested as a perfect circle of ice near the shore of the sea, which his followers would flip and divine meaning from according to the cracks and protrusions on the bottom. He expressed his displeasure with icequakes.
As a demigod, Ulutiu had a single avatar, which created and was entombed within the Great Glacier. As such, barring any outside influence that freed it, he was very unlikely to reveal a true avatar. However, he could be prompted to reveal this avatar if Othea were resurrected or Annam returned to Toril. This would likely result in the eventual destruction of the Great Glacier.
Unger was a bald, close-mouthed and sinister person.
Uni was a small unicorn who would sometimes prove useful to her allies.
The old woman wore a brown robe with a hood. She had dark brown eyes and wrinkles on her face.
Urgala was a female human of Turami descent, with dark brown skin and black hair. She kept herself fit and could be quite intimidating.
In her human form, Utna had dusky skin and pale blonde hair. In her hybrid form she had pale gray fur.
Uton was a pale-skinned man with a shaven head and a silver crescent moon on his forehead.
The lord had a long face and thin lips, and dressed in either a black robe or a set of armor. He also wore a signature helmet and an ornate golden amulet. Vaalgamon was an expert in combat, not only as a fighter but also as a mage. His considerable strength, dexterity, and vigor were complemented by his leadership. These qualities allowed him to rise up the ranks of the Zhentarim, and he eventually commanded much of their forces from the Savage Frontier to the Sword Coast.
Vagdru had only one ear, hence his nickname.
Vajra was diminutive, with olive skin, short black hair, and indigo blue eyes. She was young when she became the Blackstaff (1479 DR).
  Vajra in 1357 DR. 
Vajra, a Tethyrian by birth, was a tall and powerfully built warrior, standing 6'1" (1.85 m) high and being exceptionally muscular. She had pale-green eyes, brown skin, and blue-black hair. She kept her hair short, except for a long braid falling down to the small of her back, though she later grew her hair longer. However, as a starving child, she was rake-thin and small.
She still wore her gladiator's manacles from the Arena of Blood, which proved useful in scaring any who would try to pick a fight with her. Even when she had become a noble of Tethyr, she changed her style of dress little, despite this bothering her courtiers substantially.
Personality
Vajra was exceedingly stubborn, which served her well on the battlefield but also irked some of her courtiers. She found it humorous that she ended up a duchess. She always strongly opposed injustice, especially slavery. Vajra hated the sea.
As an adventurer in 1357 DR, Vajra said she believed only in steel and a strong right hand. Her experiences of betrayal at a young age and fighting as a slave-gladiator hardened her heart, shutting out much personal pain, but also chances to feel love or joy. Her friend Luna worked to open her heart again.
She preferred not to talk about her past as a slave, except to make casual mention. As a free woman, she was determined never to be made a slave again, and would rather die than return to the arenas of Manshaka. She declared that Duum never broke her spirit.
As a dragon, Valamaradace was longer than most gold dragons of her age, but she had substantially less mass and was more serpentine in build. Her claws were long and narrow, looking almost like humanoid fingers.
Valamaradace frequently disguised herself as Tagarda, a small female human with elven looks and some magical skill. She also adopted many other different disguises.
Vala was both nimble and muscular, with auburn hair and green eyes. She was a deeply honorable yet pragmatic woman who had spartan tastes and a cynical disregard for luxury. She was a hardened warrior, a capable leader, and an incorrigible lecher, and had a reputation for being mercurial such that she could be serious, silly, and seductive all in the same breath. She was illiterate as of the mid-to-late 14th century DR.
Valmous was handsome and possessed a heroic physique, but his face was marred by a permanent frown. By the time he awoke centuries later his beard and hair were both long and white.
Vandria manifested as a middle-aged female elf with a pair of feathered, steel-gray wings sprouting from her back. Her hair was always bound in a single severe braid, and it was colored white, possibly due to her dark elven heritage.
Vandria's face always wore an expression of grim and sorrowful resignation.
Vandria was dressed in a suit of elven chainmail which gleamed with radiant light, and she wore an ornate silver helmet lacking a visor on her head. She additionally carried a greatsword and a longbow with her when entering battle.
She had slightly tanned skin with freckles, and brownish red hair. Her eyes were green.
Vangerdahast usually wore reddish-brown robes. He was of average height and slightly overweight, with dark brown eyes that became red when he was angry. His hair and beard were white with a few remaining reddish-brown streaks, although he had also been described as bald-headed. He had a slightly protruding belly. He normally looked about fifty years old, though it was well known that was not his true age.)
Her spellscar had the form of ridges of bone and spines that projected from her skin unexpectedly, particularly during fits of emotion. In those instance, the ridges pulsed with blue energy.
Vaprak's avatar was a hideous humanoid ogre in form, He had mottled greenish brown skin, with taloned claws.
Vasos was a stocky, muscular dwarf, with a brown beard and matching mustache. He dressed in plate mail and wore a spiked helmet.
Veiti Ironeater was a young dwarf with rippling muscles that were appropriate for the girl of her trade. She had blond hair that she often wore twin-braided.
A strongly built female drow, Velasta had a rounder face than most other drow. She wore darkened drow chainmail and wrapped herself in a large black cloak. A prominent symbol of Kiaransalee was often displayed around her neck. Velasta appeared identical in practically every way to her sister, Velina.
A strongly built female drow, Velina had a rounder face than most other drow. She wore darkened drow chainmail and wrapped herself in a large black cloak. A prominent symbol of Kiaransalee was often displayed around her neck. Velina appeared identical in practically every way to her sister, Velasta.
Throughout her entire life, Vellynne suffered from a disorder to her nervous system that caused trembling throughout her body, affecting her gait and sense of balance. Through her efforts she has not let the condition affect her spellcasting abilities.
  The appearance of Venomfang. 
Venomfang was a typical young green dragon. Not wanting to give up his amassed wealth, the dragon was protective of his base. He, though, favored survival over death, and planned on flying away if he was badly beaten up and at risk of losing a fight. He had a plentiful hoard, containing coins and even an enchanted axe known as Hew. Venomfang spent a lot of time appreciating the contents of his hoard.
History
Circa 1491 DR, the green dragon flew over Neverwinter Wood to search for a new lair. On his way, he passed over Thundertree and spotted an abandoned tower. He tore his way through the roof and killed the lingering beasts within. After killing the giant spiders infesting the tower it named its base, Venomfang decided to lie low for a time. The Cult of the Dragon planned to convene with the dragon.
Verenestra could choose to appear as a demure, slim female nymph, dryad, or sylph. She was always barefooted, wearing only gossamer garments the size of handkerchiefs to provide her with a semblance of modesty. She stood 4′6″ (1.37 m) in height.
Vermissa's body was remarkably well-preserved given her age. She retained the figure of a voluptuous young woman. In contrast, her face appeared to carry all of the ravages of time where her withered skin was stretched tight over her skull. Infernal flames burned bright in her empty eye sockets.
Vermissa often used magic to disguise her appearance and could suppress other physical attributes of liches, such as chill touch and fear aura, at will.
Her voice was often soft and sweet when entertaining visitors, in which she enjoyed singing. However, if enraged, her voice assumed a malevolent tone that bespoke of true infernal power.

“
Rise early, work hard, expect little in return, and always, ah, rather, never volunteer for anything.

”
— Vermulean

The druid had a grey-white beard, a mustache, thick eyebrows and a bald head. He wore gold-colored glasses and a long brown robe.
He was a humble old man skilled in the study of gemstones, and believed it to be a relaxing purduit. He talked in a typical way of a sage, often trivializing complex matters. He did not like the presence of dark elves near his cottage, and forced them to leave him alone.
Vermulean had a vast collection of books, spell scrolls, and notes, as well as bottles of unknown substances. He also had some alchemy equipment scattered around his home, and most of items were covered in cobwebs. He was knowledgeable about the ways of the drow and Menzoberranzan.
History
In the mid–14th century DR, a group of adventurers sought to enter the Underdark to rescue their folk and the town council from the drow who raided their village. Vermulean heard their quest, and was sympathetic. He offered to enchant gemstones to grant them infravision, free of charge. These enchanted gemstones could protect the owners from radiation that emanated from underground, and allowed them to see in the Underdark. He told them about the nature of the dark elves, but advised them to seek out Drizzt Do'Urden, who the druid had never met. He explained that Drizzt was the foremost expert on Menzoberranzan above ground.
Once the companions finally reached Menzoberranzan, they sought to again make contact with the wise old man once more. Upon using the magics of Ssar Tarell, a visual portal was opened up where Vermulean identified the gems he originally gave them. It turned out that one of these was the Gem of Lolth sought by the houses of Menzoberranzan, as part of the Helm of Spiders.
Mehen was a tall and powerfully built dragonborn, with dull-ocher scales and scars where he once had his clan piercings.
As an avatar, Vhaeraun appeared as a normal male drow, handsome with a slim, graceful, and toned physique. He could change his size as he wanted and appeared either with a height of 16 feet (4.9 meters) or six feet (1.8 meters). His body was surrounded by shadow that did not just randomly lighten and darken but his body seemingly disappeared when this shadow went over him. By allowing it to swallow him completely, Vhaeraun could conduct a rapid form of teleportation.



“
 looks just like a regular drow, except for his eyes. They change color, you see, to reflect his moods. Red when the god is angry, blue when he's pleased, green when… he's puzzled….
”
— Q'arlynd Melarn to Leliana Vrinn

It was thought that he never used armor, but he was seen wearing leather armor always wore a black (or purple) mask and a long cloak of the same hue. His eyes and/or hair could change color to reflect his emotions (red for anger, gold for triumph, blue for amusement, green for puzzlement and curiosity). His hair's default color was white with red highlight.
When he appeared to Inthracis in 1373 DR, he was missing a hand, though at a later time, he was reported to be holding two weapons, one in each hand.
A legend told among drow, to crush the idea of rebellion against the matriarchy, was that Vhaeraun wore his mask to hide scars inflicted by Lolth for his arrogance. A similar legend was one that told Vhaeraun to be mute because he lost his tongue to Lolth for questioning her. The Masked Lord was seen talking with his mouth though the veracity of the latter legend was unknown.
Violet had light skin and reddish-brown hair. She dressed in a low-cut brown tunic, and wore several pieces of jewelry.
Unlike others who held the name "Vlaakith", Vlaakith CLVII was a githyanki lich.
Vladmyr had a cold and dispassionate face and dressed in all black.
Out of each of the liches behind the creation of the Crystal Shard, Vlad Xil Haerven was said to be the most greedy. Vlad would do absolutely anything for wealth. Xil Haerven would even resort to insane measures to increase his material prosperity.
Volun was a floating humanoid skull with elven decorative bounds and gems; her eyes glowed with arcane energy.
He was a slender man with light skin and long, dark hair, clad in dark clothing.
Vreesar was a large, insectoid creature as were all gelugons. He had massive clawed hands and feet, sharp mandibles, compound eyes, and a thick tail with razored spikes.
Warden was a lean, hooded warforged with glowing green eyes, fashioned from dark metal that over time had been tainted with writhing, eldritch corruption.
Wartle appeared as a bloated, 5.5‑foot-tall (1.7‑meter) slaad with dry, leathery, grayish-brown skin with sickly green spots. A row of small, backward pointing horns on the top of his head gave the appearance of a crest. When taking on human form, he typically appeared as short and pudgy with a whiny, raspy-sounding voice. In either form, however, he was covered in warts.
   The Merchant's Friend. 
Waukeen was portrayed as a slender, young woman with long, lustrous golden hair; always splendidly dressed. Some depictions included a pair of golden lions resting at her feet. Her avatar was 10 ft (3 m) tall and typically had eyes that appeared as solid gold. She wore a gown woven from strips of precious metals polished to a gleaming finish and sprinkled with all manner of gemstones. Her sash was of spun gold and her cloak was a lattice of gold coins. On her feet were boots of laced pearls with gold soles.
On occasions where subtlety was more appropriate, the Golden Lady sometimes manifested as a sprouting of daffodils to give a sign of favor, hope, or inspiration. Often she would provide money in unexpected places, like a coin, face-up, to indicate the correct path at an intersection, or nuggets of gold, citrines, pyrite (also known as fool's gold—perhaps as a sign of disfavor). Slightly less subtle was a pair of golden eyes observing from a curtain of impenetrable darkness; or a large stack of gold coins that writhed like a snake, flying or wrapping itself around something or someone to which she wanted to draw attention before it shattered and scattered, often causing a scramble to collect them. All such tokens from the goddess were highly valued by Waukeenar as "divine essence of the goddess". When more interaction or aid was needed she could send creatures such as golden-colored cats, lock lurkers, golden lions, palomino horses, eagles (preferably golden ones), or extraplanar creatures such as ferrumachs and plumachs from the Outlands.
Personality
Waukeen was an active and enthusiastic deity who enjoyed the ebb and flow of goods via commerce and the rapid pace of business in a thriving marketplace full of spirited bargaining—so much so that rumors of her presence at particularly intense negotiations involving one of her worshipers became legendary. Her side always got the best bargain, but the other party usually walked away also feeling satisfied about the terms of the deal. Waukeen was driven to accomplish a goal and move on to the next one and, rather than being frustrated when the usual business practices failed to work out a solution, she was willing to try alternate methods. This manifested itself in her church sometimes allowing the ends to justify the means. Her stubbornness and dogged persistence occasionally got her in predicaments and likely led to her imprisonment during the Time of Troubles.
The large trader was known to walk with a limp.
In his old age, Wesclodat retained only thin whisps of long, white hair, and a similar beard. His robe was dyed deep blue.
A dedicated athlete, Wessalen was tall, slender, and strong with a toned physique. He had curly blond hair.
Captain Frederick of Daggerford's Guard knew Wikkers. He did not believe the man to be dangerous nor mad, only unethical and unruly.
Worden was a muscular dwarf, with tan skin and a brown beard with no mustache.
Wormskull was a short, gnarled man with brown hair and a bad case of balding.
Wu was described to be a shadowy figure of extraordinary power. Even highly enchanted weapons, such as Cracker and Whacker, would not damage or even slightly affect the ancient lich.
Wulfgar's physical build was astounding, giving him incredible strength. He had even been known to crush a man's head with his bare hands, though it was not an easy task for him. Wulfgar was almost 7 ft (2.1 m) tall with a broad and muscular chest and weighed 350 lb (160 kg). He had blond hair and a neatly trimmed beard.
In his second life, Wulfgar appeared much the same, with a yellow beard. He wore deerskin boots.
Wyll had dark skin, black braided hair and a very thin pencil beard. One of his eyes was dark brown, whereas the other was devoid of color (in reality, a sending stone). He wore a black jerkin with golden patterns running down the center and the sides.
Wynter was over 7 ft. tall measured from his hooves to the top of his head. He had curly -black hair, cropped short on the sides with a braided hank in the back. His human half of the body was tanned, hairless, and muscular. He had a short trimmed "salt and pepper" grey and black beard. Wynter's horse body resembled that of a massive warhorse.
Xabash's true identity was a secret for most. He was a beholder of green hue.
Xanathar resembled a typical beholder, having a large spherical body some 4.5 feet (1.4 meters) in diameter, with ten eyestalks and a large central eye, above a wide fang-filled mouth. His chitinous hide was colored a dark blue-gray and shaded to a dull yellow-orange around his mouth and on his underside. He normally floated 3 feet (0.9 meters) above the ground.
Areas of Xandala's skin were covered by a thin layer of scales. These scales were a result of her draconic heritage.
A large half-orc man with black hair and mustache. His main weapons were daggers and arcane magic.
Yama most typically appeared with green skin and copper eyes. He dressed in red robes.
Yan-C-Bin commonly appeared to his followers as a tall, thin, elderly humanoid with long hair flowing in the wind. His true form was akin to a tornado.
He was only 5 ft (1.5 m) tall and sported a supple but tough body.
Yeenoghu appeared as a gnoll-like creature, 12‒14 ft (3.7‒4.3 m) tall with a grinning skull-like face and a leering pair of burning emerald or amber eyes atop his seemingly emaciated form. A mangy, yellow crest of fur reached from his head to mid-back, with the only hair on his body being small scabby patches. The rest of his body was pale and gray, his leathery hide contrasting with his taut mane and a crest of blackened spines within it. His canine chest was armored with a patchwork of discarded shields and breastplates held together with weighty chains, and decorated with the flayed skin of his enemies. He wielded a three-headed flail in his paws.
Yentai was a tall man with dusky skin, black hair, and piercing cold eyes.
Ygorl normally appeared as a 12‒15 ft (3.7‒4.6 m) tall slaad skeleton with flightless bat wings and charred-black bones.


“
After the fifth artist dispatched to record Ygorl’s appearance failed to return, I let the matter rest.

”
— Mordenkainen

Mysteriously, Ygorl seemingly lacked the same shapechanging powers of other slaadi; the form he took outside of Limbo was that of a male human warrior with dark skin and adamantine armor, and he could take this form whenever he wished. However, he had practically never been seen on his home plane, within which his form was said to be that of a completely black, 15 ft (4.6 m) tall slaadi, and he couldn't take this form at will. Regardless, the Lord of Entropy was always in shadow.
In addition to his prowess as a thief, Yoshimo was skilled at sewing and hemming.
Despite his duplicitous nature Yoshimo venerated the god of suffering Ilmater. At the end of his life he hoped to find favor with the Crying God.
Yurtrus appeared as a vaguely orcish giant, a 12 feet (3.7 meters) tall abomination riddled with rotting flesh and consumed by corruption. His peeling skin glowed green and was covered in oozing pustules and sores, his repulsive form rupturing with every step. Surrounding the disgusting body of the Rotting One was a huge cloud of noxious, stinking gases, which covered an approximately 20 ft (6.1 m) radius around him. Yurtrus also had no mouth, and so could not utter sounds.
The only acceptable part of Yurtrus were his clawed hands, which were smooth, unblemished, and otherwise completely normal save for their pure, chalk-white color.
Matron Baenre had lost much of the beauty she possessed while young to a combination of factors, including several uses of zin-carla. At the end of her life she looked haggard, with a patchwork of wrinkles across her face. However, possessing an unusual vibrancy, she was capable of pregnancy till her late 1900s.
The large goblin was far stronger and more robust than typical goblins. He wore a set of chain armor over thicker plating that skulls were attached to. He led not only other goblins, but also bugbears and worgs. Za'krug fought with either a greataxe or a serrated curved sword. The goblin leader had grey hair and long sideburns. He also wore a copper ring.
Menyar-Ag-Gith was a being of "unimaginable arcane and psionic power", and he was able to perform miraculous magical feats. As such, the deity-king was able to transcend the constraints of the mortal coil, and his lifespan was greatly extended. Due to his mastery of the mind, Zaerith remained in a static, unmoving state. In Limbo, he appeared to actually be a demigod.
According to Mordenkainen, it was unknown if the deity-king was alive, dead, or in some other state. However, it was known that he was an extraordinary psion who was worshiped and revered by the githzerai.
Menyar-Ag was known to rule over the most notable cities of Limbo, particularly Shra'kt'lor and the Floating City. The former settlement was his military seat of power, whilst the latter was his seat of religious power.
The drow weapon master was strong with thick white hair.
Zallara had black skin and very long, flowing white hair.
Although she was yuan-ti, because she was a pureblood she appeared human in nearly all respects. The only hint of her yuan-ti blood was a patch of scales that grew on her lower back. She had large green eyes and was considered attractive.
Zandess was described as beautiful and dusky-skinned.
Neither male nor female, Zaphkiel was a humanoid creature of breathtaking beauty, bathed at all times in holy power and radiant light. This tome archon stood ten feet (three meters) tall, had skin of gold, and bore wings with platinum-white metallic feathers.
Zaphkiel was at all times surrounded by warm light, and he exuded so much goodness that only the most holy of entities could stand before him without being consumed. Those who could bear his presence were instilled with overwhelming feelings of harmony and joy.
Zaphkiel had an alternative incorporeal form, appearing instead as a golden storm of energy.
Zaranda was very tall, standing at six feet, one inch, and had an athletic build. Her hair was dark brown with a white forelock. Her eyes were gray, and she had a thin nose and lips and strong, white teeth. By the late 1360s DR, she had a skewed nose (from having had it broken) and several scars and burns on her face.
Zaranda had a hearty laugh.
After her coronation, when she was blessed by the goddess Siamorphe, her facial scars vanished and she began appearing some fifteen years younger physically.
In battle, Zaranda wore a steel breastplate and backplate and a small helmet. In court, she favored soft, dark colors and velvet gowns.
Zargon was a truly repellent monstrosity, a horrifying, vaguely humanoid figure whose only resemblance to ordinary beings was a head, torso, and shoulders. His exact height was unclear, but his hulking mass loomed over most others; from the ground to his horn tip, he was about 30 ft (9.1 m) tall, but he had been reported to stand as low as 15 ft (4.6 m) and tower to nearly 35 ft (11 m). The calloused flesh of his muscular torso bore marks from endless injuries, crisscrossed with oozing wounds, cankerous tumors, and smoking clots formed from the dribbling brown slime that fell from his chin.
Instead of arms, Zargon had knots of flesh at each of his shoulders, three on each side, from which six long tentacles, each tipped with a razor-sharp barb, lashed out like a whip. Similarly, he had six muscular tentacles at the base of his body, a wriggling nest of thick appendages that managed to propel his putrid form. The tentacles shot out, grabbing or stabbing the terrain to pull him forward, but also slithered and slid in the thick pool of gray goo that he was constantly surrounded in. Wherever Zargon went, a foul trail of blood, slime, and undigested body parts was left in his wake.
Though all of Zargon's form was abhorrent, when looking upon him, one's eyes were inexorably drawn to his hideous head. His reptilian visage hosted a wide maw filled with sharp, curving teeth above his dripping chin. A long, black horn with silver speckles (its reported length ranging between 2‒7 ft (0.61‒2.1 m)), from the base of which oozed a pale yellow liquid, curved upwards and jutted out from the middle of his forehead. Outdoing all these traits in repulsiveness however was perhaps Zargon's most disturbing feature; his bulging, bloodshot, cycloptic eye.
Zariel's original form was that of a beautiful solar with precious skin, gold-feathered wings, and a blindfold covering her eyes.

  Zariel's shadowy silhouette 
After her descent, she took on a more diabolical appearance; a halo of fire burned atop her head, her once fine skin seemed scorched, and her angelic wings, ruined by flame, took a leathery appearance. Her blindfold was abandoned, fully revealing eyes that glowed with white-hot rage, and she had lost one of her hands and replaced it with a flail.


“
This young dwarf wears black leathers, sports several tattoos, and wears a belt ostentatiously set with several silver-hilted daggers.
”
— Bruce R. Cordell, Forgotten Realms Campaign Guide

Zark had black hair.
Personality
Zark was a greedy freeloader and slaver.
Although Zedarr was of average height for a male drow, he was an imposing figure in his black full plate armor. He kept his visor down most of the time (especially in combat) due to terrible scars across his face. Zedarr's dark skin was mottled with pink burns marks.
Zenobia had long, braided blonde hair, and a substantial blonde beard. She was clad in chain mail, and wore a voluminous dark red cloak.
His avatar typically took the form of a robust male human with regal bearing, dressed in a white tunic. He had white hair and a full, long white beard, and stood 15 feet (4.6 meters) tall. His avatar was not seen to wear armor, for he disdained it.
Zeus's true form was that of a ball of fiery light, whose radiant light was so intense that no mortal could look upon him without bursting into flames or dieing.
Zevlor had mid-long grey hair, some of which was tied up at the back. He had two large horns and bright yellow eyes, and fought with a pair of swords.
Zhalk was a medium-sized fiend with large wings. He wore heavy armor.
Like other githzerai, Zhjaeve had green skin stretched tightly across her facial features, accentuated the lines of her bones, slender features, and unusually long fingers. She had grey-yellow eyes. Her alien features carried over into her subtle body language, including her tendency to silently watch those she was interested in, for purposes that were often hard to read. Additionally, her appearance was more than a little similar to that of a githyanki, though with slightly rounder features, often causing some confusion and resulting in occasional cases of mistaken identity.
A tan gnome with a bushy mop of white hair and a matching beard, Zorbu clad himself in shades of green, purple, and leather armor.
Zrie appeared as most liches did. He had taut age-worn translucent skin stretched over his bones. His hollow black eye sockets each contained a pinpoint of evil red light.
Zstulkk Ssarmn's head closely resembled a human, but the rest of his body was that of a large snake with no arms or legs. He wore a magical neckband that made him appear fully human, albeit with a low-sloping forehead and skin that did not quite conceal a pattern of scales.
This foul demoness resembles a human only from the torso up. This portion of her body is composed of thick rancid sheets and coils of fungus that just happens to have grown into the shape of what would, otherwise, be an attractive woman. Four fibrous antlers grow from her brow, and her hands bear cruel talons. Her lower torso is a coiling pillar of lashing ropey tentacles and other fungus growths. Her skin is a nauseating swirl of greys, blues, purples and blacks.
She appeared almost alien and inhuman as a skeletal-thin humanoid shape draped and veiled in mycelium and lichen. She and her servants were almost a soulless mockery of living creatures.
Zulkir was a furry medium-sized animal with a distinctive white stripe from the tip of its elongated nose to the back of its head and white cheeks.
