ALL SHADOWS FLED
©1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
All characters in this book are fictitious. Any resemblance to actual persons,
living or dead, is purely coincidental.
This book is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of
America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or artwork
contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR,
Inc.
All TSR characters, character names, and the distinct likenesses thereof are
trademarks owned by TSR, Inc.
Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in
the book trade for English language products of TSR, Inc.
Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd.
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Cover art by
Fred Fields.
FORGOTTEN REALMS is a registered trademark owned by TSR, Inc. The TSR logo is
a trademark owned by TSR, Inc.
First Printing: October 1995
Printed in the United States of America.
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 94-61677
987654321 ISBN: 0-7869-0302-3
TSR, Inc.
201 Sheridan Springs Rd.
Lake Geneva, WI 53147
U.S.A.
TSR Ltd.
120 Church End, Cherry Hinton
Cambridge CB1 3LB
United Kingdom
To Jenny, for literally everything.
cha mhisd'a thig dhuit am boidag
Away, Shadows, away! I grow tired of slaying thee . ..
and presently I shall grow angry. Then you'll be sorry!
The Simbul, Queen of Aglarond
Said in spell-battle before all her court
Year of Shadows
PRologue
Three living heroes and a ghost dared to take an enchanted blade out of the
world, hunting shapeshifters in their ancient Castle of Shadows. . . .
For centuries, the Malaugrym had been dark figures of legend, fey sorcerers
who could take any shape they chose. They came to Faerun to impersonate kings
and reavers and archmages, to entertain themselves with the havoc they could
wreak—and to seize mortal women as breeding slaves, carrying them off across
the planes to the place they called Shadowhome.
When the famous archmage Elminster of Shadow-dale caught Malaugrym in Faerun,
they paid with their lives. Twice he journeyed to the Castle of Shadows to
humble the House of Malaug . . . but no mere mortal had ever made such a foray
and returned to Faerun to tell of it.
Until Lady Sharantyr, Knight of Myth Drannor; Bel-kram and Itharr of the
Harpers; and the ghostly remnant of Sylune, Witch of Shadowdale, went up
against the shapeshifters armed with the Sword of Mystra. And with that sword,
Sharantyr cut her way back from the brink of death and out of the Castle of
Shadows, slaying many of the evil shapeshifters as she went.
Unfortunately, most of them still lived, and vowed revenge on four new foes.
More entered Faerun with the returning heroes and escaped to wander the
En GREENWOOD
Realms at will.
Even worse, Faerun was much as they'd left it: in the throes of the magical
chaos, bloodshed, and lawlessness of the Time of Troubles, when the gods
themselves walked the Realms, no magic could be trusted, and fire and fury
raged across the lands.
It was a time for heroes, and the four who'd escaped the Castle of Shadows
found Elminster, the Old Mage, waiting for them, with orders to undertake
still more perilous tasks in the desperate work of saving civilized Faerun.
And the Malaugrym were waiting for them, too.. . .
If Begins with a Flame
Faerun, Daggerdale, Kythorn 20, Year of Shadows
The wind rose and whistled through the stones of a roofless, ruined manor
house on a grassy hillside in Daggerdale. The trampled slope was strewn with
tenta-cled, jellylike, eye-studded nightmare bodies.
Three weary, wild-eyed rangers and a ghostly lady hastened up the hill from
the monsters they'd slain, running like starving men to a banquet table. They
hurried toward a man who sat in the ruins.
The gaunt, white-bearded old man sat on what was left of a crumbling wall and
serenely smoked a pipe. He looked at them all, smiled, and spat out this smoke
belcher. It rose smoothly upward to float by his ear, spouting wisps of smoke
that curled away to be lost in the quickening breeze. *Te deserve
congratulations for one thing, at least," he announced.
After the silence had begun to stretch, Itharr sighed and asked in tones that
were just respectful, "And what, Lord Elminster, would that be?"
"Keeping thyselves alive," Elminster told him dryly.
"I heard an 'at least' in there," Sylune put in. Her silvery tresses hung
still around her eerily translucent face despite the gusting wind. Beside her,
the blood-spattered lady ranger Shar shot her an amused look
ED GREENWOOD
through her own wind-whipped hair.
Elminster glared severely at the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale. "There is a
little matter of bringing a trio or more of Malaugrym into Faenin, and
allowing'them to wander off untraced and untrammeled, to work their wanton
wills across the land."
" *Work their wanton wills' ... I like that; 'twould fit nicely into a purple
Harper ballad," Sylune replied serenely. "My choice, Old Mage, was between the
lives of these three heroes—nay, no wincing, now; they've more than earned the
title—and those of a few shapeshifters. / think my decision was the right one
. . . and if you disagree so strongly, why did you not take action yourself?
You must have been here watching us."
"Been here, aye. Watching, no," the Old Mage replied, eyes on the hillside
below them—where, at his magical bidding, the horribly distorted bodies of the
Malaugrym were rising into the air and catching fire. "I was tossing meteor
swarms over the turrets of Telflamm, half a world away."
"By the gods, the bardic phrases keep flowing, like . .." The ghost sorceress
paused meaningfully.
"Nightsoil from a hurled bucket?" Belkram offered helpfully.
Sylune rolled her eyes and continued, "And your reason for this . . . ah,
fiery behavior?"
El grinned. "I was feeding a wild magic area to make it grow into a shield
against Red Wizards ... so I could turn my attention closer to home."
Belkram caught the first whiff of burning flesh and spun around, raising the
gory daggers he held ready in both hands. Seeing the source of the smell, he
relaxed. A certain grim satisfaction grew on his face as he watched the bodies
of their foes burn. Sharantyr gave the midair cremation a single quick glance
and turned her gaze back to the Old Mage.
"I know you well enough, Elminster," she said levelly,
4
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"to know that such words always lead us to another of your 'little tasks'. . .
and I'd appreciate knowing what this one is without a lot of clever
tongue-fencing. Several Malaugrym—one in particular—have about used up my
patience for today." As she stared challengingly at the Old Mage, Shar flexed
her aching jaw. Her mouth, scorched by a Malaugrym tentacle whose foul taste
she could still remember, was throbbing painfully, and her tongue was a thick,
numb thing.
As her companions looked at the usually merry Shar in surprise, Elminster
inclined his head and said, "Plain speaking is wise in any case, Lady Knight.
Know, then: thy swords and spells—and all of ye, with them—are urgently needed
in the coming defense of Shadowdale. I'm here to send ye where ye're most
needed in that fight."
"The Zhentarim?" Sylune asked shortly. It was more statement than question.
As if her words had been some sort of cue, the world around them was suddenly
a cold place of endlessly streaming white flames, and her companions stood
frozen amid the conflagration. The last thing the Witch of Shadowdale heard
was Elminster's disgusted cry: "Ah, no! Not again!" And then his tattered
words were whirled away from her, and all that was left was the ceaseless
roaring. . . .
After what must have been a very long time, Sylune knew herself again. She was
all that was left of the woman widely known as the Witch of Shadowdale. .. .
She was Sylune. Still a ghost. . . and still in Faerun. Hanging in the heart
of the roaring.
All around her, flames that did not burn streamed endlessly past her
motionless friends and the crumbling stones of the manor. But she could move
and think . . . though the cold white flames made her
ED GREENWOOD
tremble uncontrollably as they roared through her.
Sylune found she could move, if she bent her will hard to the doing. Let us be
doing, then.
With slow determination, she drifted nearer the Old Mage, sitting motionless
on his bit of wall. His hands were uplifted and his lips open, wearing the
disgusted frown of his realization that whatever it was had caught him again.
So they were in some sort of trap. A magical trap, though its flames—which
didn't seem to harm anything—had withstood the wildness of magic stalking
Faerun for some time; it seemed. Some of the wildflowers growing amid the
stones had bloomed and withered since the magic had begun. The companions had
been here for days, then. Sylune wished she could sigh. I've not been a ghost
long enough to learn patience for waits that may well take years.
She looked at the Old Mage's pipe, still floating beside his head where he'd
left it, and saw that the flames bent around it.
They seemed to be avoiding it! Sylune stared at the spell-flames narrowly for
a time; they boiled up out of nowhere on one side of the ruins, arced over her
frozen companions, and then returned in an endless rush to nowhere on the far
side of the broken walls. It was some sort of stasis field that avoided
Elminster's small, curved, ever-smoking pipe.
So, the pipe yet radiated its own magic—and floated on its own, not frozen by
the flames. She frowned. He'd once been able to teleport with it, hadn't he?
She drifted nearer, noticing faint wisps of smoke curling up out of the pipe
bowl ever so slowly and rising to mingle with the onrushing flames.
She eyed it. This was probably going to hurt.
Mystra, if any part of you is still around to hear, she thought firmly, aid me
now. And with the resolve still strong in her, she surged forward, thinning a
part of her essence into the pipe.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Magics swirled and tore at her, defenses against tampering that bore
Elminster's trademark spell-upon-spell interlacing. Gods, the pain!
Whirling around in a silent scream, Sylune found that the pipe could teleport
vapor in and away, in an endless cycle—giving her an escape whenever she
wished—and could also transport anyone who touched it and willed it, thus,
from place to place.
Elminster sat frozen, but perhaps she could guide the pipe to him . . . yes!
That very movement was a direction he'd given the pipe several times recently,
so how to do it was displayed right in front of her!
Sylune swirled around the pipe and moved it down toward the Old Mage's mouth.
The flames bent away from her, and grim satisfaction rose within her as she
made the slow, drifting journey. This was going to work!
At last the pipe touched the Old Mage's lips, but he sat open-mouthed,
unmoving, and she could feel no quickening of will within him, only the
endless roaring. The magic was binding his wits, then. Of course it must be,
or he'd have used spellfire to drink it down to nothingness long ago. Sylune
wanted to sigh again.
Perhaps she could force a teleport by—oh, gods, this might well be the last
thing she ever did, the last moment she knew.
Farewell, Faerun, Sylune thought, and flowed back into the pipe. She must will
it to take the Old Mage away from here, to the meadow. The meadow where
Sharantyr had danced about with a glowing sword in the depths of the night—a
lifetime ago, it seemed—in the meadow just over there.
And then white flames roared up between her ears and up her throat and the
world exploded, whirling her away.. . .
ED GREENWOOD
Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 15 •
"I have seen enough shadow weaving and clearing away of dead kin and rubble to
last me many an eon," the gigantic horned worm declared in a voice that echoed
in the far corners of the cavernous room, "and Shadowhome is rebuilt
sufficiently to set my gorge at ease—for now."
With a rattle of huge chitin plates, he glided into the dim, shadowed chamber,
and there dwindled into a bald, long-tailed, gray-scaled humanoid. Othortyn of
the Malaugrym eyed his minions, a pair of tentacled lesser kin who peered into
the flickering, floating light of a scrying portal at the center of the
chamber. Othortyn shifted his tail and asked irritably, "So how've you two
been wasting your time?"
"Watching what befalls in the world of the humans," Inder said boldly, "as you
commanded." His quiet companion, Hastrim, nodded but said nothing.
"And what have you found?" Othortyn asked, settling himself on a crumbling
stone throne that was almost as old as he.
"The ambitious humans who dwell in Zhentil Keep, bolstered by their god—or one
who claims to be Bane— have gone to war," Inder said in a voice swift and
shrill with excitement. "They've sent four armies into adjacent lands, the
largest by road into Shadowdale . . . where the Great Foe dwells."
"And what befell this force sent against Elminster?" Othortyn asked quietly.
"Some local human mage called down lightnings and cooked many in their armor .
. . and then the Foe turned a few thousand into boulders while they were
camped at a place called Voonlar. No doubt he planned to transform them all,
but—"
Othortyn blanched. "Mass transformation? You dare to tell me that the Great
Foe can turn whole armies into toads? I've not heard that sort of nonsense
since I
ALL SHADOWS FLED
was a youngling and pranksome elders tried to scare me with wild tales of
human wizards!"
Inder met his master's gaze steadily. "Didn't you believe those tales?" he
asked quietly.
Othortyn glowered. "So, just how many spells, oh wise apprentice, do these
wizards hurl around that I don't know about?" he asked, voice heavy with
sarcasm. As he eyed the younger Malaugrym, his tail curled out to open a door
that had been secret for long years. He took out a dusty bottle from the dark
niche beyond.
Inder shrugged. "Several thousand, perhaps."
"So, with all this magic to hurl about, reshaping worlds," Othortyn snarled,
the end of his tail rearing back and lengthening into a hollow stinger, "why
did oh-so-mighty Elminster stop making his rocks before the whole host was
done?"
Inder frowned as his master pierced the cork of the bottle and drank deeply.
The apprentice said, "His spell—as would any mighty magic, we believe—created
an area of wild magic . . . which is still spreading. A wizard would see such
a thing as the greatest danger of all, and would do nothing to aid its
spread—nor dare to risk himself in its vicinity."
"So the Great Foe did not confront his own foes directly," Hastrim added,
"fearing for his skin."
"He turned instead to the other armies, where only lesser mages stood against
him," Inder continued, "and—"
"Speak no more of the Foe," the old Shadowmaster said sharply. "What has
become of our kin who reached Faerun?"
"Atari, Yinthrim, and Revered Elder Ahorga survived the battle with the three
accursed humans who came here," Inder said in more sober tones, "and seem to
be roaming Faerun in many shapes, learning its ways and uses."
"Others of our house have found their own, separate ways into Faerun," Hastrim
added. "We have scryed
ED GREENWOOD
Bralatar and Lorgyn, and seen one other, whom we believe to be Lunquar, get of
Byatra. . . ." His voice trailed away, and there was a little silence.
"Is that all?" Othortyn growled. "I thought Jaster had gathered a dozen or
more eager younglings around him!"
"He did," Inder said quickly, "but when Starner came to you with word that the
Great Foe was caught in the loop trap you cast at their gate, you told him to
gather all kin with spells to spare and make haste to—"
"Blast all who defy me!" Othortyn roared, and lightning leapt from his eyes
like two darting white flames, roaring across the chamber to swallow up Inder
and the scrying portal with him.
Hastrim staggered back with a startled sob as his companion and their spell
vanished into wisps of curling smoke.
"I did tell you, Inder, not to mention the Great Foe again," Othortyn said
chidingly. Then he turned his head from the drifting smoke and said politely
to Hastrim, "Please continue with the exposition of events that Inder so
abruptly abandoned . . ."
Hastrim stared at him in stunned silence, face pale. Muscles rippled around
his mouth as he fought for calm.
"Feel free to be as clever as you feel necessary," the old Shadowmaster said
soothingly.
Hastrim looked at Othortyn, and then his gaze fell again to regard the greasy
curls of smoke that had been Inder. He swallowed.
"Well," he said unhappily, "perhaps it would be best to begin when it was
first noticed that three humans— bearing a magic sword—had somehow stepped
from Faerun into the heart of Shadowhome . . . undetected."
"Good, good," the old, bald Shadowmaster said encouragingly, opening another
bottle. "Would you like something to drink?"
"Er—" Hastrim began, and then added with sudden
1O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
firmness, "Yes," and a long, snakelike tentacle put a dusty bottle in his
hand.
*****
Faerun, Dagger-dale, Flamerule 15
"Easy, lass," a familiar voice rumbled as Sylune" of Shadowdale slowly blinked
her way back into awareness. " Twas well done, to be sure. Ye shattered a
spell loop, a very nasty Malaugrym magic—and there were a dozen of them
waiting with all the spells they could think of, for us to break out. It's
probably best that Shar and the lads were stunned when ye hurled me elsewhere.
It saved them from about forty mind-rending attacks, and left me free to use
the sort of Art that was really necessary."
Elminster gestured down the hillside, and Sylune saw rainbow swirlings there,
above torn earth and blasted stumps. The trees around the stream and the
leaning bridge were no more . . . and no doubt the gate to the Shadowmasters'
home plane was gone too.
"A wild magic area?" she whispered.
"I fear so," Elminster replied grimly, "but the gate is gone forever, and a
score or so more Malaugrym with it."
Sylune shuddered and drifted up out of his hands. Except for the few stones
where the Old Mage was sitting—well west of where he had been—the ruined manor
was now a crater of mud and gravel.
She swirled back to face him. "How long has it been since we came back from
the Castle of Shadows?"
"Nigh on a month," Elminster said quietly.
Sylune" nodded grimly. "I thought so. Has Shadow-dale fallen?"
Elminster gave her a twisted grin. "Not yet." He got up and trudged west, into
the trees. "Come to the meadow."
11
ED GREENWOOD
Sylune drifted along beside him, suddenly reluctant to be alone. The old
wizard had taken only a few paces before they emerged into a field of trodden
grass where Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr sat, looking up with welcoming
smiles.
"Thankee, and all that," Itharr said, his broad shoulders shifting as he
smiled.
"All part of my orders," Sylune told him briskly, giving Elminster a
meaningful look, "as enunciated by the tyrant mage here."
"Ah, yes," Belkram said. "I believe I know just how you feel."
"Yes," Sharantyr agreed crisply. "I think it's about time, Old Mage, that you
told us what befell Faerun while we were all caught in this magic."
"You might have revived us sooner," Itharr added darkly.
Elminster looked at the burly ranger. "It took me days to repair and rebuild
thy bodies, all three of ye. I had to use necromantic spells I haven't looked
at in ages . . . and I do mean ages." He lifted an eyebrow. "Perhaps I didn't
get thy head screwed on quite right."
"I—" Itharr began, but Belkram interrupted him.
"If that's so, sir—why do I feel weary, and in pain?"
"Aye!" Itharr agreed.
"The only way I could save ye at all," Elminster muttered, "was to restore ye
to exactly as ye were before the trap took us. As it was, I nearly lost ye
more than once—ye in particular, Belkram, five times! The gods know I've grown
used to never receiving the slightest thanks when I help folk, but betimes I
think certain beneficiaries of my arts close enough to me—and perceptive
enough, to—ah, ne'er mind ..." He glared at the handsome Harper.
Belkram returned his look of anger.
"All right," Sharantyr said, looking from one to the other. "Enough. Tell us
about the Realms, El."
Elminster's face grew calm as he nodded and said
ALL SHADOWS FLED
briskly, "Zhentilar armies march on Shadowdale from all sides—and the avatar
of the god Bane rides with them, leading the main body himself."
"Faerun's flying dung," Sylune said crisply. The unaccustomed oath drew
startled gazes her way. "Even if the dale can withstand such an assault," she
said bitterly, "it'll be torn into smoking ruins in the doing." She turned to
look south. "And after all these years, I'll see it destroyed after all."
"Be not so quick to surrender our home to the Black Gauntlet," Elminster said
firmly. "/ shall be there, fighting to the last. . . and I've sent Zhentilar
troops running bootless away from Shadowdale more times than I care to
recall."
"If three swords can make a difference in this, sir," Belkram said heavily,
"things must be bad. Tell us in truth what's befallen thus far ... where are
the Zhents now?"
Elminster nodded. "Four armies are on the march," he said, all trace of
testiness gone. "The one coming down through Voonlar is the largest, though my
friend Perendra took care of a goodly number of the fools by calling up a
lightning storm. Fancy marching through a downpour in full armor; some of
these warriors must have cold iron between their ears, not just over them!
Meanwhile, I dealt with a few thousand more."
"Oh? How do you 'deal with' a few thousand Zhent troops?" Belkram asked,
shifting into a more comfortable slouch in the grass. The more he dealt with
arch-mages, the more it was becoming obvious that their shared concept of
'haste' allowed time for thorough discussions of everything.
"Carefully, lad," Elminster told him predictably. "Carefully."
The two Harpers sighed together . . . and had many other opportunities to sigh
as the wizard rambled on. At one point Belkram muttered despairingly, "Get on
with it!" under his breath.
13
ED GREENWOOD
He'd spoken a trifle too loudly. The Old Mage's eyebrows rose, and Belkram
gulped,
"Patience certainly seems to be the provision ye used up most in the shadows,"
El observed mildly as his pipe glided in to find its way to his lips. He blew
a slow, spreading smoke ring and then banished his pipe again. Teleportation
is one thing that still seems reliable among all this chaos of Art, so I spent
the better part of the highsun hours yesterday transporting a dozen
monsters—hydras, firedrakes, wyverns, behirs, death kisses, and the like—into
the camp of the second, central force, north of the Flaming Tower."
Belkram chuckled, but Shar looked troubled. "What's to stop their using spells
to drive those beasts before them, south into the heart of Shadowdale?"
"Me," the Old Mage told her impishly. "I took care of their mages first." He
watched another smoke ring drift away on the wind and added, "Some of the
beasts I sent into their midst were rather hungry, too."
"Can't Bane teleport just as easily as you can?" Itharr asked quietly.
Elminster nodded his approval at such tactical thought. "Of course. Hell have
to come to the aid of his Central Blade or lose the lot of them . . . but the
doing will keep him occupied for a time, too busy to work other mischief." He
ran fingers through his beard. "The same consideration governed my treatment
of the smallest force. Fzoul's leading four hundred or so mounted men-at-arms
past us right now, through Daggerdale."
"Four hundred Zhentilar?" Belkram asked, holding up his daggers. "You want us
to take down four hundred warriors? Shouldn't we get horses to ride on, just
to make it a little fairer?"
Shar and Itharr snorted together. Sylune reclined gracefully on thin air, as
if sprawled on a couch, and awaited Elminster's answer.
The Old Mage shook his head and asked softly, "Bold
14
Aii SHADOWS FLED
today, aren't we, friend Harper?"
Lesser men might have quailed before that tone, but Belkram merely shrugged,
smiled, and waved at Elminster to continue.
Inclining his head in a mock bow of thanks, Elminster said, "That task is not
yours." He lifted his lips in a mirthless grin. "I suspect a few ores can do
it better."
"A few ores?" Sharantyr roared, her voice rising from deep and ragged tones,
for all the world as if she were a burly male and not a lithe lady.
"Elminster!" That last squeaked word of reproach sounded more like a lady's
pique, and goaded Sylune into peals of tinkling laughter.
"Yestereve," Elminster told them in tones of injured innocence, "I approached
several ore bands foraging in Daggerdale, and undertook to alert them that a
well-provisioned Zhent force was entering the territory. That should make
things a little warmer for Fzoul than he anticipated, and rob him of most
opportunities to reach Shadowdale ahead of the other Zhent forces, hole up in
the woods around Grimstead, and amuse himself by using his spells to harass
the good folk of the dale."
"All right, El. You've been both clever and busy," Sylun6 reassured him, her
voice soothing. Her next words, however, came out as sharp as the crack of a
whip: "But so have we. My friends here grow stiff and tired and hungry. Armies
march on Shadowdale from all sides, you said, and have told us of three, so
what attack is coming from the south—and what is our duty in dealing with it?"
Elminster bowed his head again to hide a grin, cleared his throat in apparent
embarrassment, and said, "I need ye four to deal with the fourth Zhent attack:
the Sword of the South. It's a band of Sembian mercenaries and the covert
Zhentarim agents who hired them. They've been assembling in Battledale for a
month and more, drawn from all over Sembia and the eastern dales."
"They're going to try to march through the Elven
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Court woods?" Shar asked, one shapely eyebrow raised. That's not a wise tactic
for any armed band."
The Old Mage shook his head. "Their orders are to take and subdue Mistledale,
and without pause press on up the Mistle Trail, to drive into Shadowdale from
the south." He smiled gently. "You will stop them."
"I thought we were going to defend Shadowdale," Bel-kram said. "You may be
able to dance around the Realms with a thought and a wiggle of your hips, but
we have to walk . . . and I don't feel like running back and forth between two
dales, sword in hand, through gods know how many Zhent blackhelms!"
Elminster held up a quelling hand. "I said I'd come to send ye where ye are
most needed. Right now Shadow-dale is crowded with frightened troops bustling
about. I don't want them to relax because the heroes have come to town, and I
don't want them in thy way, or ye in theirs. Mistledale is thy battlefield.
The defense of Mistledale will be the southern defense of Shadowdale."
"How strong is this fourth host?" Belkram asked suspiciously.
Elminster shrugged. "About seven thousand, when last I counted."
"Seven thousand!" Itharr burst out as jaws dropped all round.
Shar shook her head. "You love us, don't you?" she murmured.
El chuckled. "Oh, yell have help. All of Shar's battle companions, the Knights
of Myth Drannor, are in Mistledale already, mustering the Riders."
"There are only thirty Riders, perhaps six more if the graybeards who can
still walk and breathe at the same time come out of retirement, and another
dozen if their sword apprentices ride with them, too," Sylune said softly,
"and barely a dozen Knights, even if all who've retired or strayed off come
running to Mistledale."
El frowned. "And ye, of course . . . isn't that battle might enough?"
"Ah, Old Mage," Sylune said gently, "you may not have noticed, being old and
terribly important and even busier than usual . . . but I'm not . . . er, the
woman I used to be."
El chuckled. "I've been spreading stories of the Ghost Witch of Shadowdale
these last few months ... I think ye'll find, on a battlefield, that ye're
rather more than ye used to be."
Sylune glared at him, her eyes two white flames dancing in the air. "And just
what does that mean?"
"I've had half Twilight Hall modifying their best battle spells since the
seasons turned," the old wizard told her. "If it all works, they can cast them
simultaneously through ye, so a dozen or more battle magics—which ye can
aim—lash out from ye at once."
"And the catch?"
"The power involved will burn ye out from within, leaving thy body only ashes
. . . killing ye."
"El, I don't have—oh. I see. As I'm dead already, I should survive the
destruction of whatever body you're going to give me."
El nodded. "It's waiting for ye in Mistledale," he said quietly. "Not the last
one 111 give ye if—gods willing—I survive this Time of Troubles."
Tears welled up in her phantom eyes, and he added quickly, "Ye'd best get down
there speedily. Torm's been dressing the body—ye—in all sorts of black
leather, red evening lace, and fishnet gauze apparel, most evenings, and
seating ye in the porch window of the Six Shields to entertain the locals."
"Oh he has, has he?" Ghostly eyes flashed. "I think 111 just slip into this
body of mine at an opportune moment and give him the fright of his life!"
Shar grinned broadly. "May I watch?"
"No, that's 'may we watch?'" Belkram corrected her.
"Of course," Sylune told them grandly. "This Six Shields place is unfamiliar
to me, though ..."
"A cheap rooming house east of Lhuin's tannery," El
+ 1(5
17
ALL SHADOWS FLED
told her in the manner of a pompous guide, "opened recently to house field
workers, drovers, and others too cheap to stay at the Hart or the Arms."
Shar and the Witch of Shadowdale sniffed in unison. "It sounds like the sort
of place where Torm would stay, tight-pockets that he is,"
"Much as I'd like to watch ye roast Torm on a spit, just to see him wriggle
for once, there is some haste," the Old Mage added. "By sundown, the scouts of
the Sword of the South may well reach Galath's Roost."
"How can we possibly reach Mistledale in time, then?" Itharr asked—unwisely,
as it turned out.
Sharantyr gave him a weary look. "He's going to mass teleport us," she said
grimly. "It always makes me feel sick for hours afterward." She sighed and put
one arm across her bosom and the other over her stomach, bracing herself. "Get
on with it, then."
"Wait," Belkram said, brow wrinkling. "We haven't even—"
The last, fading thing the Harper saw as he struggled to finish his sentence
was Elminster's cheery grin. Around him the world flashed and changed—into
blue, swirling misty emptiness. Next came a sense of falling, for just one
wrenching moment, and then they were standing on a bare board floor in a loft
lit by two barrel-sized lamps that hung down on dusty chains from the roof
beam. Frowning men in armor stood staring down at large maps whose corners
were held down by daggers and gauntlets—or looking up at the newcomers in
startled consternation, hands going to hilts.
Belkram and Itharr stood a little behind Sharantyr. Right in front of her was
a tall, broad-shouldered and hard-faced man whose steely eyes raked both
Harpers for a moment before he took a catlike step forward and crushed her
into an embrace.
"Shar, by the grace of all the gods!"
The lady ranger's shoulders shook for a moment as she clung to him, her drawn
sword forgotten, and she
knew tears would be bright on her face when she turned to introduce them.
Florin Falconhand did not give her the chance.
"I've missed you, little one," he growled, and as Shar reached up to tousle
his unruly hair, he added, "but you've found companions on the trail, I see.
Who are these two gentlemen you've brought?"
Eyeing the drawn blades crowding in around them, Belkram deemed the moment
right. He bent his knee, parted the leathers at his throat to show his silver
harp pin, and said, "Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers to fight alongside you,
Lord Florin. Elminster sent us."
A good-natured grin split the famous ranger's face, and he reached one long
arm around Sharantyr to clasp their forearms. "Be welcome! We have need of
swords, good men to wield them . . . and adventurers brave enough to stand up
to Elminster, too!"
"Pardon, Lord," Itharr said smoothly, "but shouldn't that be 'foolish
enough*?"
There were chuckles from all around the room, and other men thrust forward
their hands in welcome. They were accepted.
Shar tossed her silver blade under the table and put her freed hand on
Florin's cheek to guide him down into a kiss. As their lips touched, she was
overheard to be murmuring, "Well, here we go again.. . ."
Bodies, Frzesh and OfheRtoise
Misttedale, Fiamerule 15
It was horribly dark and somehow dusty, followed by a whirling moment of
wrenching pain that became a red agony in her chest, rising up to choke her.
Threads of pain rolled down limbs stiff from disuse to an aching _ forest of
fingertips . . . and then light and sound suddenly burst and swam all around
her. The Witch of Shadowdale found herself blinking back tears.
She had a body again!
Fighting an urge to shriek in triumph, Sylune clung to that thought: she had a
body again! A body Torm had obviously just finished dressing in a black lace
cutaway gown that left her bare there and there and there. . . . He stood with
his back to her, humming a contented ditty as he held up a red silk garter
before the lamp and surveyed it critically.
It did look rather splendid, but Sylune bent all her attention to making the
still unfamiliar body move—pushing against the bed with utmost care to sit up
silently, and then leaning forward into a quick barefoot step, slipping her
arms around him. Her lips went straight to his ear, and before she kissed its
hairy lobe, she murmured
ALL SHADOWS FUCD
into it, "Torm ... I've come for you! Torm..."
With a gratifying shriek, Torm leapt into the air, red silk flying. Sylune
clung to his trembling limbs and made the leap with him, but the Knight
twisted in the air to fling her free and grabbed at his belt dagger. The Witch
of Shadowdale put one leg behind her, bounced on it, and lifted her other knee
smartly between his, ere she bounded backward onto the bed.
Lord Torm of Shadowdale, Knight of Myth Drannor and thief of some skill, rose
into the air once more, sobbing. His darkening eyes met hers for just a
moment— with a look of mingled pain, terror, and disbelief—before he crashed
face first to the floor.
Some minutes later, the figure sprawled on the furs beside the bed stopped
moaning and writhing, and asked hesitantly, "Sylune? Is it you, truly?"
She stood up and walked slowly around the room, kicking experimentally to
limber up stiff legs and toes. "It is, Torm . . . which is why you still live,
I suppose."
Weakly, the thief on the floor began to chuckle. "Bits of me do. Others I'm
not so sure about. I'm sorry, Lady."
"Apology accepted, lecherous scum."
He laughed openly this time, his whooping breaking off with a catch as the
shaking brought him fresh pain. "Ohhh, gods," he said at last, rolling over.
"I've not felt this much pain since . .. well, never mind."
"I hope she was worth it," Sylune said teasingly, and then asked curiously,
"Why weren't you wearing one of your usual flamboyant codpieces?"
Torm looked hurt. "I wasn't dressed yet! Can you see me going downstairs in
this?" He held his arms wide to fully display the patched and stained cotton
undersuit that went under his fighting leathers. "Ladies first," he added,
gesturing at her.
Sylune put her hands on her hips and gave him a level stare as she gestured,
up and down, at herself. "This is your idea of 'dressed,' I take it?"
Torm gave her a sly look from the floor, and rolled up
ED GREENWOOD
to a sitting position, wincing once. "Well, you hadn't complained before
tonight," he said, feigning innocence.
"Yet—as you may just have noticed—I'm doing so now," Sylune told him calmly.
Then she snapped, "Take this frippery off me—at once!"
Torm bounded to his feet with an alacrity that belied the severity of his
injury. "My pleasure, Lady Sylune!"
"I'll bet," she said dryly. Try to keep your hands on the buckles and thongs,
now, and when you're done, 111 need a neck rub. Hmm—my calves, too. This body
is as stiff as old wood!" She struck a pose, pirouetted experimentally,
admired herself in the burnished metal looking glass, and rubbed her nose.
"You've taken some care with my hair," she said in tones of pleased surprise.
"Diligent brushing, at the least. My thanks, Torm."
"Lady," Torm said seriously, reaching out a finger to stroke the silvery fall
of her hair, "in all my life I'd never dared touch your hair, or Storm's, but
I always wanted to. It's . .. truly beautiful. . . like spun silver."
SylunS laughed lightly and laid a hand on his cheek. "Why, thank you,
Torm—this, from the maid-chaser of Shadowdale?"
"Lady, I meant it," the thief replied, and bowed. " Twas an honor caring for
your body." A twinkle crept into his eye. "In fact, if you weren't so many
years my senior. .."
Sylune glared at him, and gestured again at herself. "You were hard at work
removing all this saucy stuff, remember?"
Torm's j*aze dropped—and he discovered the fallen garter. Plucking it up from
the floor, he offered it to her mutely. Sylune gave him a withering look, so
he shrugged and tossed it over his shoulder. Then he undid her sash, put his
hands on her shoulders and spun her around lightly. He stripped her with a
speed and expertise that told her he'd done this a time or two before.
"This bit's much easier when you're standing up and—er, with us," he
commented. "Oh, by the way . . .
ALL SHADOWS FLED
the stone that lets you occupy this body is implanted here." He touched the
inside of her left arm, just above the elbow. Sylune probed cautiously, and
thought she felt the magic stone deep within, alongside the bone.
"Mystra bless you and keep you, Old Mage," she breathed, "wherever she is."
"What about prayers for me?" Torm asked teasingly, fingers busy undoing the
black silk choker he'd put around her throat earlier.
"You'll be needing more than I feel capable of giving," she replied with a
chuckle. Then the Witch of Shadow-dale reached out, caught hold of his chin,
and kissed him firmly, darting her tongue into his mouth.
When she released him, Torm was smiling a little dazedly. "What was that for?"
he asked in pleased tones.
She put her arms around him, smelly undersuit and all. "Torm, you rogue," she
said feelingly, "do you know how long it's been since I've held someone?
Kissed anyone? Tasted anything? Even your mouth is preferable to nothing at
all!"
"Hey!" Torm said in aggrieved tones. "What's wrong with the taste of my
mouth?"
"Nothing," she said tartly, spinning away from him, "except that it's the only
taste you've got." She sat down on a chair. "Now, about that neck rub."
"If my taste is so bad," Torm said, delving hurriedly into a wardrobe, "how is
it that you're in my bedchamber, out of a dozen more in this place? Hey?"
"That can be remedied," she said, rising.
Torm caught her wrist and sat her back down. "You're not going out into the
hall like that!"
"Why not?" She gave him a deadly look. "After what I've heard about what
you've been doing to this body before I got here, it could hardly damage my
reputation — or yours — any further! Has Ulistyl heard about this?"
Torm looked pained. "How did you — ? Oh. Elminster."
She nodded in silent satisfaction. The thief looked at
ED GREENWOOD
• her, found his eyes drawn to meet her own, sighed, reminded himself again
that this magnificent creature was a woman old enough to be his great granddam
many times over, smiled ruefully, and turned her around to face away from him
again. "You wanted a rub," he said, "and you shall have it. Then you can go
down those stairs and fight off the entire Zhent army doe-naked if you want. .
. but you might catch cold before they get here."
"Not if all the men of Mistledale give me the sort of hot glances you've been
throwing my way," she returned. Torm chuckled and tipped some scented oil out
of the bottle he'd taken from the wardrobe, rubbed his palms together, and
then laid gentle fingers on her shoulders.
Sylune stiffened. "What're y—oh. Ohhh." A few pleasant minutes later, she
asked almost sleepily, "How did you know I love the scent of cloves? Did
Elminster tell you?"
"No," Torm replied, sounding irritated. "How, then?"
"Lady Sylune," Torm said carefully, "I am a thief." He had to hold her up to
keep her from falling off the
chair as she bent over and shook with sudden, helpless
laughter.
Daggerdale, Flamerule 15
Valaster's Stand had thrust lancelike into the eastern Daggerdale sky for an
age and more, and bid fair to do so for a long time to come. Long before
Valaster had chosen to die there, the stand had been an arrowhead-shaped ridge
that rose sharply upward as it ran northwest, to end in a jagged, overhanging
point of rock under which many a traveler had camped. Wiser folk kept to the
thick stand of shadowtop trees that
ALL SHADOWS FLED
marched up its back, and so stayed hidden from the eyes of predators.
The trees on the edge of the rocky point were dead or dying. Their bare
branches thrust up into the sky like the gnarled fingers of a dead man, a
popular roost for birds of prey. Two large and dusty buzzards sat side by side
there now. Many another raptor circled, squalling at the buzzards' refusal to
leave, and then flew off in search of other perches.
The two dusty birds paid them no heed, for they were deep in conversation.
"We can't get back without a mage," one said in tones that threatened to
become a wail.
"If we find one powerful enough," the larger buzzard added, "there remains the
problem of compelling him to create a way between the planes—and yet keep
ourselves safe against his treachery."
"To say nothing of the wrath of the elders of the blood if they hold us
responsible for opening a way into Shadowhome any mortal can use . . . can you
imagine armies of men in the halls of the castle?"
"I could tell them it's all your fault, Atari," said the larger buzzard,
sounding amused.
"I don't find this a matter for jesting," the other raptor said coldly, "even
from you."
"We'd best begin lurking about cities and towers and the like, looking for
wizards and trying to find out just who is mighty, and what interests drive
them," the larger buzzard said. This may take a long time."
"Aren't they most likely to be found in cities?" Atari responded almost
despairingly. "Yinthrim, I don't know how to look and act in a human city! We
won't be able to learn anything if we're always running afoul of local laws
and customs, and getting attacked!"
"How to begin, then? We—'wareF
A large, dark bird was gliding down out of the high blue sky toward them,
headed silently but purposefully for their tree. The buzzards watched it
nervously, shifting
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
on their perches. "An eagle?" Atari guessed. "Do they eat buzzards?"
"Nothing eats buzzards, if I recall old Othortyn's teachings, except other
buzzards," Yinthrim said tightly, "but if he was wrong . . ."
The eagle circled the tree, regarding them both with dark and knowing eyes.
"Is this all you've managed to do?" it asked coldly. "Take bird-shape and sit
around on dead trees feeling sorry for yourselves?"
"Ahorga?" Atari gasped.
"Son of Yerga," the eagle responded calmly as it came to rest, wings flapping,
between them.
"We were just discussing—"
"I know; it's how I knew you. Is this all you've done— flee into the
wilderlands and then sit and talk?"
"Well, no—" Atari protested, but Yinthrim interrupted.
"That's a fair summation of our doings, yes," he said. "I'd rather tarry now
and plan wisely than charge into one blundering battle after another and
awaken the attention of the Red Wizards, these Zhentarim, and Elminster's
friends."
The eagle nodded. "Fair enough. Have you come to any conclusions as to what to
do—as opposed to what not to do?"
"One question," Atari said hurriedly. "How many more of us came through with
the sword and ... survived?"
"None I know of, but others of the blood seem to have found their own,
separate ways into Faerun."
"Will any of them join with us," Atari asked eagerly, "in hunting down the
three violators of the castle? Or the Great Foe?"
Ahorga turned a cold and glittering eye on the younger Shadowmaster. "Hot for
revenge, are you? None of them—nor will I."
"What?"
Ahorga turned to see if the silent Yinthrim was as shocked as Atari, but the
larger buzzard merely
shrugged and said calmly, "Say on."
Ahorga nodded. "Rushing into battle here is a very good way to get slain.
They'd no doubt rather see what Faerun has to offer before getting themselves
destroyed ... and so should you."
He looked back at Atari. "Go after the three rangers if you must—you're likely
to find them and the Great Foe in and around Shadowdale, southeast of here—but
you'd better gather some rings and wands and suchlike that wizards here use to
store battle magic... you'll need such power to take even those three. You'd
best get some experience in impersonating mortals of Faerun first... unless
you like being burned, lashed, and transformed against your will by frightened
wizards!"
"You make it sound as if every mage of this world can dispose of us with a
wave of his hand," Atari said bitterly.
"If you sneer at them and rush into battle with them heedless of what might
befall," Ahorga told him, taking flight with a sudden, powerful wingbeat that
almost tumbled them from the tree, "that's exactly what may happen." He
circled around them. "Go softly, and make surprise your best weapon."
"Will we see you again?" Yinthrim asked.
"If you stay alive, almost certainly," the senior Shadowmaster said.
"Remember, an ambush is your best tactic, and against Elminster, it's your
only tactic."
"Well practice ambushes, then," Yinthrim promised grimly. "The Realms around
here, I think, are suddenly going to become much more dangerous."
"Now that sounds like a son of Malaug speaking," Ahorga said approvingly.
Without a farewell, he flew off southwest.
Atari watched him go, and then said in a small voice, "Are mortal mages really
that dangerous?"
"No," Yinthrim assured him. "He was just telling us that overconfidence is."
"Words to live by? Hmmph," Atari said, and turned one wing into a tentacle
long enough to make a rude
27*
ED GREENWOOD
gesture into the southwest. Yinthrim chuckled and flew from the branch.
"Where are you going?" Atari asked in sudden alarm.
"I'm going to practice ambushing something—anything," his fellow Malaugrym
replied. "I'm hungry,"
*   *   *   *
Verdant farms stretched away on both sides of the road, which ran like a sword
blade down the length of Mistledale. Along the backs of those prosperous
steadings stood the unbroken green wall of the encircling Elven Court woods.
On this bright morning Mistledale was a beautiful place to ride, with a good
mount moving strongly beneath the saddle—even if the rider rode in the midst
of a solid ring of ebon-armored warriors, who took care to keep their armored
forms between her and any possible attack.
For the third time, Jhessail Silvertree lost sight of everything but moving
black-armored bulks and a forest of lances. She studied the small circle of
blue sky visible above her—all she could see of the world around—sighed, and
decided she'd had about enough. From the mutter-ings behind her, she could
tell that her apprentice, Illistyl, whose tongue was apt to be sharper than
that of almost anyone else, was clinging to her temper with grim talons.
Jhessail smiled tightly, thanked Torm for his work in outfitting her with
riding breeches—though her lack of armor was why the Riders were treating her
this way—and swung her legs suddenly up underneath her.
She heard a startled, wordless exclamation from a Rider on her right as she
spread her hands for balance and stood up on her saddle. She had time for a
good look around before the Riders on either side of her were extending their
lances around her like the bars of an upturned portcullis and crying out:
"Lady, get down!"
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Catch hold of my lance!"
"Careful, Lady!"
She folded her arms across her breast and waited for them to fall silent—and
soon enough, uncertainly, they did. "Thank you for your kind concern,
Gentlesirs," she said as the horses slowed to a rather jarring trot, "but both
Illistyl and I find it rather hard to do any scouting or become familiar with
the land around us—land you gallants already know well, but which we've seen
only once or twice in passing—through a solid wall of plate armor."
"That's just it," the leader of the patrol rumbled, his deep voice sounding
almost scandalized. "You wear no armor! What if a Zhent arrow came from the
trees? How could we shield you better than we have been?"
"Kuthe," Jhessail said soothingly, " 'tis not your diligence or skills I
reproach, but my lack of any good way to see around or through all of you. I'm
saving my one 'long eyes' spell for any spying we need do in the forest. I
know the risks of riding to war; I've done it before, remember."
"But to expose yourself needlessly," Kuthe growled, "is foolish, Lady."
"To a vigilant guard of his homeland, yes," Jhessail said, still standing on
her saddle, "but I am an adventuress. One who plays with spells. An explorer
of baatezu-haunted Myth Drannor. Wedded to an elf, remember? I've done far
more crazed things in my life than riding out without armor, I assure you."
"But the little lass—* Kuthe said, gesturing helplessly.
"Call me that again, ironhead," Illistyl advised him sharply, "and you'll be
chasing your teeth around the inside of that great helm of yours."
There were guffaws from the Riders, but one of them cut through the chorus of
mirth. "Lone rider behind!"
Heads snapped around, and Jhessail turned, smiled, and announced, "It's Lord
Merith. The reinforcements Elminster promised us must have arrived."
"Reinforcements?" Kuthe rumbled, looking up at her.
ED GREENWOOD
"We've heard nothing of this . . . How many, Lady?"
"Four," she told him sweetly, and there were more guffaws. Illistyl was sure
she heard an angry snort as Kuthe's helm swung away from them, but a moment
later Jhessail snapped, "Ahead—at Treesedge! Lookr
The eastern end of Mistledale, where the flanking arms of the forest met to
form a narrow green tunnel around the road to the Standing Stone, had always
been called Treesedge. The spot was marked by a covered well and the crumbling
rampart of a tiny keep— well known to Riders on patrol who'd sheltered from
downpours under its remnants. It was a beautiful spot to spend a night, but a
bit lonely to be a grave site.
It seemed likely, however, that men were going to be buried there now.
Crossbow quarrels were humming down the road from the east, raking the rear of
a hard-riding band of merchants on lathered, stumbling horses fleeing west
into Mistledale.
The strength of the merchant band was dwindling steadily. The bolts found easy
targets. As Jhessail watched, a fat merchant threw up his hands with a
strangled wail and pitched from his saddle, choking on the quarrel that stood
out of his throat. On the other side of the road, a horse's head flopped and
swung—and a breath later both horse and rider crashed and rolled in the dust,
collapsing into the long silence of death.
Jhessail dropped into her saddle again a scant moment before the Riders
spurred ahead into a grim, silent gallop, knowing they'd not be in time. Far
behind them, Merith stood up on his own saddle, saw that strife lay ahead, and
reached for his bow.
Lances leveled, the Riders of Mistledale swept east. "Get out of the road!"
Kuthe snarled at merchants who could not hear. "Clear the way!"
"Kuthe! Halt your men!" Jhessail shouted. "Nowr
The great helm turned her way, the face within dark with anger. "You have some
sort of plan?"
"Yes," Jhessail cried, leaning close to him as their
ALL SHADOWS FLED
mounts thundered along side by side. "Just stop them!"
Kuthe gave her a long, slow look—and then reached for the horn at his belt.
After the horn rang out around them, the patrol became a confused mass of
dust, rearing horses, and cursing men. Lances rang and rattled off armored
shoulders, and Jhessail had to duck hastily to avoid being inadvertently
unhorsed.
"Well, mage?" Kuthe demanded when he could be heard. His eyes were on the last
merchants, dying up ahead . . . and at something moving on the tree-lined road
beyond them. Their slayers.
The leader of the Rider patrol shot her a look. "Well?"
JhessaiFs mouth was a thin, white-lipped line as she told him shortly, "Back
away . . . Give us room side by side."
Kuthe waved one great gauntlet in heavy silence; Illistyl was already guiding
her mount forward. Jhessail whispered to her, and they raised their arms
together, spread as if in supplication to the sky overhead—and waited.
In tense silence as the Riders eyed them, they watched the road to the east.
"Well?" Kuthe demanded. "Have you seen enough?"
"Wait until they come out," Jhessail said, her eyes on the road. "It'd be our
death to ride down that firing tunnel, the gods know. Let them come out. If
I'm right, they'll be the Zhents we're expecting . . . with orders to ride
right on and take Mistledale. They probably killed those merchants just to
stop them from warning us."
Kuthe nodded as the killers of the merchants rode into view: a band of mounted
crossbowmen, clad in armor as dark as that of the Riders, streaming out of the
road mouth and fanning across the fields of Treesedge. Around the two
sorceresses, men swore at the sight of that armor.
"Zhent blackhelms, all right," Kuthe said, "and riding hard to encircle us ...
sixty of them, or more. What
31
ED GREENWOOD
now, Lady?"
"Keep silence for a breath or two," Jhessai) told him softly, "while we do
what we have to. Let no man here ride forward until I give the word. When our
first spell goes off, your horses may move by themselves; be ready to hold
them back!"
"Whose place is it to give orders?" a Rider demanded gruffly.
Jhessail turned on him eyes that were dark and cold, and said, "It will mean
death to ride forward. Disobey my suggestion freely, but leave word for your
widow first."
More than one dry chuckle answered her from the men around, and Kuthe growled,
"Right. We wait. Work your magic. Shields up!"
Crossbow quarrels were already hissing their way, though the range was
impossibly long. Ignoring them, Jhessail spread her arms again and began the
incantation, Illistyl chanting in unison.
Abruptly the air in front of the Riders was full of shadowy, moving
forms—images that suddenly grew dark and solid; the gleaming black armored
backs of Riders on horseback, charging away with lances lowered. More than one
mount under the real Riders surged forward to join them, and had to be reined
in, hard. The ground shook under the thunder of phantom hooves, and dust rose
in a cloud as thirty dark horsemen raced away east.
"Gods," the Rider who'd challenged Jhessail whispered, watching the illusory
Riders charge away into battle. "They certainly look real."
"Aye, but how can ghost Riders kill any Zhents?" Kuthe demanded as Merith
Strongbow came up beside him, an arrow ready, and nodded in silent greeting.
"That's the next spell," the elf told him with quiet confidence. "I've seen
this trick before." He thrust both bow and arrow into the startled Rider's
hands. "Here— hold this."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
As Kuthe gaped at him, he raised his own hands and joined in the gestures of
the next spell, murmuring something the Rider couldn't quite hear.
Then he plucked bow and arrow back from the officer's hands and stared east,
watching as the dust cloud behind the false Riders became a thick, swirling
mass of yellow and green—and the two forces crashed together.
With startled speed, the Zhents plunged through the phantom Riders—into the
thick of the yellow-green cloud. And men who rode into that cloud did not come
out again.
"I hate doing that to horses," Illistyl said, her voice as thin and cold as a
knife.
Merith's eyes, however, were on those who'd ridden wide. "Jhess!" he snapped
urgently. As his wife peered past Kuthe, Merith drew his bowstring back to his
chin, angled the ready arrow up into the sky, and loosed.
Kuthe had never been so close to a spell being cast before. He stiffened and
swallowed as one slim and shapely arm brushed his breastplate in an arcane
gesture, and a clear, musical voice spoke two distinct words.
She turned her head and winked at him. Kuthe blinked at her—and when he looked
again at the sky, the arrow had already split into a dozen shafts, plummeting
down on the hard-riding Zhents in a deadly rain.
All but two of the invaders fell in that volley. Kuthe glared at the surviving
Zhents and snapped, "Orold— take them!" Six of the Riders spurred away without
a word, waving their lances as they followed Orold into battle.
"It feels . . . unfair, killing men like that," Jhessail said quietly.
Kuthe stared at her, and then at the fading yellow cloud where only a few
horses still choked and rolled.
"Lass, lass," one of the older Riders replied through his snow-white mustache,
"there're still near seven
ED GREENWOOD
thousand of them, if our scouts be right. When we face alt of'em, sweeping
down on our homes, d'you think they'll turn their mounts back if we yell
'unfair' then? Aye?"
Another Rider spoke then. "I can even things just a trifle more."
Jhessail turned her head to see who'd spoken; the voice had sounded
surprisingly old. The Rider guiding his mount toward her wore worn armor that
had been recently burnished at the joints to quell creeping rust. The armor
was of an older, bulkier design than what Kuthe wore, though most of it
matched the ebon gloss of the other Riders' harnesses. The Rider doffed his
helm—and Jhessail stared into the lined face of a very old man.
"Lead us if you will, Baergil," Kuthe said quietly.
"Nay, lad," the old Rider told him. "My commanding days are done. I know daily
just how good I was—I order my cabbages about in the garden, and they heed me
not a whit."
"Ho, Baergil," Merith said with a smile, and the old man matched it as his
cloudy blue eyes met the elf's steady gaze. "I remember you."
"And I you, Sir Elf," Baergil replied. "Though it's been thirty years gone
since then."
"Baergil led the Riders that many summers ago," Kuthe told Jhessail, "when I
was but a lad. Then he turned to the worship of Tempus, Lord of Battles, and
left our ranks."
"They're all dead," Illistyl told them bleakly; she had never stopped watching
the Zhents die. "I guess we'll not need your spells, priest of the war god."
Baergil smiled. "Nay, lass; their deaths're what I was waiting for. There's a
spell that raises the fallen. . . ."
"To do—what?" Jhessail asked quietly.
"In the hours before dawn," Baergil said, "if they ride as hard as 111 bid
them, sixty skeletal reavers will ride into Essembra, striking at anyone with
drawn weapons
34
ALL SHADOWS FLED
— or who hurls spells at them. Those who offer them peace they'll leave be,
but Zhents being Zhents . . ."
There was a roar of hard laughter. "Do it!" Illistyl told him delightedly, and
the warrior priest nodded, watching Orold and his men return.
Then he turned back to them. "That should buy us the time we need," Baergil
said with a certain satisfaction, "to make Galath's Roost ready to properly
welcome Zhent butchers." The Riders around him laughed again — a chorus of
low, quiet sounds that held no humor.
Jhessail shivered despite herself, and caught Illistyl's eye. The two of them
shared a comforting look as the priest turned away.
As Merith moved up beside his wife and stretched out a long arm to embrace
her, Jhessail felt a pat on her knee — and looked up to see Kuthe wheeling
away from her.
"Well done, Knight," he said gruffly. "See you at the Roost!" He urged his
mount into a canter, and all around Riders spurred their horses after him,
heading for the distant trail into the trees that would take them to the Roost
... to turn the ruined keep into a deathtrap for Zhentilar blackhelms.
Merith and Jhessail's arms were around each other, and their kiss went on
until Illistyl looked up at the sky and remarked brightly, "Beautiful weather
we're having, isn't it?"
The sky seemed to know this already, though the two Knights beside her didn't
seem to notice — or care. Illistyl sighed and rode away. In the distance, she
saw dead men and horses rising in a stiff ring around the black-armored
priest. She shivered, shook her head, and rode after the Riders.
See the Realms and taste true adventure, they'd said. Well, here we go chasing
it again — and flashing swords to that!
The Dead and the Liaing Both Ride
Essembra, Battledale, early hours of Flamerule 16
Gostar yawned and backed into another circular walk, keeping his eyes and
attention always on the night to the north. As if his shifting had been a
signal, his companions did the same. Those who fell asleep on guard duty or
were judged careless often swallowed sword blades on the spot, but the long,
cold hours made feet ache and limbs stiffen. It was best to keep moving in the
last stretch before dawn, when the mists clouded bright armor and played
tricks on eye and ear.
Now, for instance. A low rumble—Gostar could feel it in his jaw more than he
could hear it—was rising from the ever-shifting mists ahead. A helmed head
down the line inclined to listen; the others had heard it, too.
The noise was growing louder, becoming a continuous soft thunder, swirling
over and around them with the scudding mists . . . and seeming familiar. He'd
heard this sound before. In his saddle, on the rolling plains near Thentia . .
.
Then he knew what it was, and ice clawed at his heart and throat.
Gostar shook himself, swallowed, and shouted,
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Rorst! Run back to rouse the camp!"
"And why'd I risk a flogging to do that, now?" Rorst asked in his usual,
careless, I've-seen-it-all tone.
"Can't you hear it?" Gostar waved one gauntleted hand at the mists before
them, where the sound had become a continuous choppy thunder. "Those're
horses, man—half a hundred or more, at full gallop!"
Helmed heads were looking at him all along the line, now—and in the eyes,
their whites flashing in the gloom, Gostar saw the grim realization that he
was right. Swords gleamed and sang as they were drawn. Rorst took a few lazily
shambling steps away from the line just to show that he didn't take orders
from a fellow ranker, and feared nothing besides. Then he broke into a trot.
A line of fast-plunging horses leapt out of the north mists, like arrows
seeking targets. Atop them rode black-armored warriors, drawn swords in hand.
Gostar yelled in fear and defiance and raised his own sword, whirling it
around his head to get the speed he'd need to cleave armor and unhorse a foe.
He sprang deftly aside as a charger galloped right at him, then leaned in to
strike his blow. It wasn't until he looked up into eyes that were dead and
dark that Gostar knew something was wrong, horribly wrong.
The face above his was Estard's . . . and Estard was up in Mistledale this
night, with sixty fellow Zhentilar blades, carving out a claim there for the
Sword of the South. Who, then, was this . . . ?
Bright pain burst through Gostar as Estard's sweeping blade cut through the
light mail under Gostar's left arm and into the ribs and chest beyond—and the
wounded man hung for a long, burning moment on that cruel edge of steel. The
world grew dark around him as he flew free, the ground so hard and close and .
. . more hooves struck him as he fell, crushing him into the turf, but Gostar
felt them not. Nor anything else, ever again.
37
ED GREENWOOD
A raw scream split the night. Swordlord Amglar came awake, its echo ringing
painfully between his ears. He'd been dreaming of gentler, softer, and more
welcoming sounds, by far.
"What befalls, by the gods?" he growled at the darkness, feeling for his sword
hilt. Horses were thundering through the camp, and the clash and ring of arms
rose around him, mingled with shouts—voices he knew.
They were under attack by a large mounted force!
Amglar cursed, snatched up sword and shield, and stamped feet into his boots,
but wasted no time on clothes. His sword squire was snoring like a contented
whale at the far end of the tent, with all their armor racked beyond him. It
might as well be a realm away.
Boots secure, Amglar spat a heartfelt curse and ran for the back of the tent,
where the din was less. The attack was from the north . . . Hillsfar? Who else
could muster enough mounted swords to get through the road guard? Elves never
fought from the saddle .. . and even if every farmer in Mistledale could find
a horse, scarce more than a handful'd be able to stay on it while swinging a
blade!
Then he was out into the night, and war was all around him—Zhent blackhelm
fighting Zhent black-helm! Amglar stared around for a moment at running,
half-naked men, horses plunging and trotting stiffly among them, stiff
black-armored riders—stiff? The swordlord's eyes narrowed.
He ducked back out of the way of a cursing knot of men being dragged behind
pikes buried deep in a rider who did not slow or fall from his saddle. The
rider clung to the upswept forecantle with one hand while he swung a futile
blade back and forth with the other. The horse struggled on under the weight
of them all.
Undead. The attackers must be their own men, raised and sent back from
Mistledale. Amglar stared around at Essembra, cursed with loud feeling, and
started a perilous run toward the red-lantern house the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
mages had taken as their own. He hoped he'd make it there alive . . . and in
time.
He was still running hard, dodging blackhelms who should be dead and frantic
quarrels from his own terrified men, when Ondeler appeared at the
close-curtained balcony of the Bold Banners and stared at the battle below.
There was no hint yet of dawn, but the torches in their tripods still blazed,
and in the dancing radiance they cast, the Zhentarim wizard could see the
street was choked with struggling men.
"Bane's hand!" Ondeler cursed, amazed and fearful. Who could be attacking them
here, in the heart of Essembra? Behind him, a lass appeared on the balcony and
gasped. He turned and snapped at her, "My robe! Be quick!"
Scared eyes met his for a moment, and she was gone. Ondeler turned back to the
street, crouching low behind the balcony rail, and watched the carnage below.
Swordlord Amglar, still a distance off, ran toward the red-lantern house, and
then Ondeler heard anxious breathing at his shoulder.
"Lord?" the lass whispered.
He reached out without looking, felt the familiar fabric of his robes, grasped
it firmly, and said, "Go now and awaken Myarvuk—the mage with the curling
black beard, who came in with me. Bid him come here; Ondeler commands. If he
seems unwilling, tell him the seven talons await. Haste, now!"
"Lord, I will," she hissed, and was gone.
Ondeler smiled wryly as he felt for what he'd need. Why was it that ladies of
the evening obeyed faster and more willingly than any of the Zhents under him?
Perhaps he should take all the women of this house with him, to be his
swordcaptains and envoys—if he still had any command at all, after this
attack.
He gave up groping for the secret pockets and rose into a cautious crouch to
put the robe on. Once it was around him, his fingers knew the places where
this and
ED GREENWOOD
that were stored, and came up with them.
He rose up to his full height, made the pass that touched the two crumbling
substances together, and chanted:
"By dung of bat and sulphur's reek And mystic words I now do speak— Ashtyn
ortkruu angcoug laen— Let empty air burst into—flame.*"
As the components dwindled and left his hands empty, one end of the street
below obediently erupted in ravening flame, in an explosion that hurled
blazing bodies against walls in a gruesome chorus of thuds.
In the flickering aftermath of the fire, Ondeler could see some armored men
fighting on despite the flames rising from their bodies. He felt a chill of
fear; how—?
Undead. Ah, of course. Most were ashes, but a few were horses and men,
bare-boned or burning, still moving, fighting. ...
Through them stumbled a man with a drawn sword, who wore only boots and a
furious expression. Sword-lord Amglar had finally reached the red-lantern
house. He was heading for the door beneath Ondeler and glaring up at the
balcony as he came.
"Crimson curtains, wizard! Are you trying to burn all Essembra down, and us
with it?"
"It does seem to work, Swordlord," Ondeler replied with a serenity he did not
feel. "Nice uniform, by the way..."
Amglar made a certain rude gesture with his sword, but the wizard sneered and
raised his hands as if to cast a spell. The Zhentilar snarled and hastened out
of view, in under the railing, heading for the door.
"I am here, Ondeler," Myarvuk said from the chamber behind the balcony where
the wizard stood.
"Good," said his Zhentarim master. "Did you bring my envoy with you?"
"Envoy?"
4O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"The woman who came for you .. . Belurastra."
"The—?" Wisely, Myarvuk swallowed his astonishment and replied levelly, "She
stands beside me, master."
"Get her some riding breeches, boots, a dagger—you know," Ondeler said, eyes
still on the street below. "She'll be riding with us."
"Lord?" Belurastra asked in a low, cautious voice, as the apprentice mage
hurried away
"Aye, envoy?"
"I-I am unused to war. Are you sure you want to do this?"
"I am," Ondeler said flatly, watching a dozen men-at-arms hacking undead limb
from limb across the street. An attacker rode toward them, and the wizard
swept a stone from another hidden pocket, whispered a word over it, and held
it out to make an intricate gesture.
An instant later, a boulder the size of a small cottage appeared above the
undead mount and rider and crashed to the cobbles, crushing them both into a
tangled, bloody mass. Ondeler nodded in satisfaction. "Another fireball may
not be necessary," he announced. .
That's good news, wizard," the sour voice of Sword-lord Amglar grunted from
the room behind. "Your last fire spell sent at least seven of our swords to
their graves . . . and a few more bid fair to join them before the day is
full."
"Their surviving swordbrothers might just be able to deal with a few zombies,"
Ondeler said sarcastically. "Weight of numbers and all that."
Amglar ignored this, refusing to rise to the challenge. It was not the first
time this arrogant Zhentarim had likened loyal troops of Zhentil Keep to
pitiful inferiors not able to match wits or swords with the walking dead. He
wondered idly if Ondeler would have dared to act thus if he'd known that
Amglar was under orders to report regularly to Draethe, steward of the Inner
Circle, on the wizard's performance. Well, no matter; one such
ED GREENWOOD
report was soon going to be the last, featuring the sorrowful news that
Ondeler's own incompetence had brought about his death in battle. Amglar had
been considering elegant ways of wording that missive for some time now.
But enough; it was time to play the stone-skulled soldier again. "I've ordered
all the troops awakened, fed, and made ready to march," he said heavily. "As
soon as the last undead ones are hewn down and burned, we go north. They're
probably laughing in Mistledale now, thinking they've the whole day to dig in
and await us ... I'd like to take most of that preparation time away from
them."
"All the troops?" Ondeler turned, raising an eyebrow. "Even"—he gestured
expressively at the boudoir around them, taking in the entire red-lantern
house in his meaning—"the rest of the magelings?"
Amglar set his jaw. "The whole host," he said flatly, and held up his sword
hilt, the black hand of Bane gleaming in obsidian on the pommel, in silent
reminder that he held overall command of the Sword of the South, supreme even
in dealings with Ondeler.
The wizard shrugged. "I am ready, as always." As Myarvuk returned with a
bundle of clothing, his master said coldly, "Rouse the 'prentices in as much
haste as is seemly. Our swordlord is impatient to find other battlefields than
this town."
Myarvuk nodded in silence and withdrew, leaving Lady Belurastra curiously
eyeing the belt, boots, breeches, and tunic.
"Put them on," Ondeler ordered her as Belurastra stood stroking one of the
smooth-carved balls that surmounted her wooden bedposts. She wore a slightly
bewildered expression, and made no move to take up the small sheathed dagger
that lay atop the heap.
"If you ride nude," Ondeler told her coldly, "you'll be raw before the sun is
bright, and of no use to me."
Belurastra raised large, dark eyes to meet his and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
asked, "Lord, you are determined to do this?"
"Of course—and if I must tell you again, young Lan-dras of my 'prentices will
have the use of your backside to practice his firewhip spell tonight."
-The lady escort sighed—it was almost a shiver—and said, "Very well," in a
small voice as she undid the lace and let her shift fall to the floor. Ondeler
watched it form a puddle of cloth around her feet and turned his head away in
satisfaction to glare at the swordlord once more. Amglar had raised his own
blade as if to stare at its edge critically, but the wizard saw his gaze dart
to the woman, and smiled. Brains in their codpieces, all of these
swordswingers. Twas a pity that they were needed at all, to hold what the
wizards of the keep won....
The swordlord was a veteran soldier. After that first glance to see what she
was doing, he kept his gaze resolutely away from Belurastra until it was too
late.
Smoothly, the most beautiful woman in Battledale, senior escort of the Bold
Banners house, twisted and pulled on the wooden bedpost ball. It came away,
and she reached into the hollow interior beneath it and snatched forth a slim
poniard. Tossing the ball on the rumpled bed, she used her freed hand to strip
away a wax-sealed sheath from the weapon as she raised it.
In the lamplight, a dark green liquid gleamed on the needle-slim steel.
Something—perhaps a momentary flash of reflection—alerted the wizard, and he
whirled about to face Belurastra.
"I regret," she said firmly as she plunged the poisoned blade into his right
eye, "that I cannot accept the position of envoy to any Zhentarim wizard!"
As she jerked the blade free, the swordlord leapt at her. Ignoring Ondeler's
crumpling body, he caught her wrist in steely fingers before she could turn
the blade on herself.
The deadly poniard hung bloodily just above her bare breast for a perilous
moment as they strained against each other—and then the Zhentilar twisted and
+ 4S-*
ED GREENWOOD
yanked. Belurastra sobbed in helpless pain, and the blade spun to the floor.
It struck the floorboards and stood quivering there.
"Poisoned, Lady?" Amglar asked in low tones. "Bravely done—but to throw your
life after his would be a waste ... a foolish waste." He released her wrist,
and the nude woman took a smooth step back.
"Youll not slay me?" she asked, rubbing her wrist.
The Zhentilar officer shook his head. "Nay, Lady, if you agree not to bury
that little fang in me—though you'll forgive me if I neglect to mention your
name or heroic deed in my reports. Best hide that blade after we're gone,
somewhere that doesn't tie it to you. And neither of us speaks of this, or
remembers it, for the rest of our days."
The lady escort's eyes widened in sudden hope.
Amglar regarded her gravely. "Well? Have we agreement?"
"We do," Belurastra said, eyes bright with unshed, grateful tears.
He smiled. The heels of his boots clicked together. "As to your query: slay
you? Nay; I salute you. You've done something none of us dared to ... and
freed us of his idiocies just when we could no longer afford them."
A smile flickered across her face. Amglar realized it was because of his
elaborate dignity—the boots he'd clicked together were all he wore. He grinned
back at her, and said, "If you're so adverse to wearing breeches an' all, I'll
see if they'll fit me."
Myarvuk came bustling in a few breaths later and looked sharply down at the
body sprawled facedown on the floor, blood pooled about its head.
Amglar, resplendent in too short breeches, said briefly, "Spell went wrong.
You're spellmaster of this sword now."
Myarvuk brightened. Then his eyes narrowed and he took a quick pace back, out
of the swordlord's reach. "How can I be sure your next report to the steward
44
ALL SHADOWS Fi£D
won't contain a note of how I treacherously slew my master? I think I must
know where we both stand . . . or if I must ensure that I'm very soon the only
one still standing." He raised one hand threateningly, wriggling his fingers
in a pantomime of spellcasting.
Amglar shrugged. "Save your spells for the foe, boy. Even if I did report that
you killed Ondeler, twould not paint you ill in their eyes. You know that.
Rest assured my reports won't say you had any part of it, unless you want me
to write thus. Now stop prancing about trying to impress me, an' see what you
can salvage of this carrion's"—he nudged the dead wizard with his foot—
"magic, for your own use."
Myarvuk bent to his task eagerly, but stiffened a few breaths later when
Amglar growled, "Just one other matter, Spellmaster. You don't need an envoy,
an' Bat-tledale doesn't need its best lady escort slain. If we are to have a
deal, she stays here, unhurt—your witness, if you ever need one, that you
weren't anywhere near when Ondeler so unfortunately left us."
Myarvuk nodded and shrugged. "No argument here, Lord." He bent gingerly to the
body. "I don't suppose you—?"
"Nay, boy. Loot your own bodies . . . an' don't be all day about it. The Sword
of the South rides out of Essembra as soon as it's light enough to see full
quarrel range ahead. There'll be no scouting and creeping about, either. We
ride looking for battle. Someone in Mistledale seems to want death, and I mean
to bring it to him!"
Axshabenford, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
"Clever battle strategies?" Florin asked, wrinkling his brow. "What clever
battle strategies, Torm, do you think a force of seventy—twenty of whom are
untrained farmers—can essay on the field? Against
ED GREENWOOD
seven thousand?"
The thief shrugged. "The mighty battle mastery of gallant Florin Falconhand is
a legend from the Dragon Reach to the Storm Horns, and shiny-eyed maidens
await, breathless, for whatever Florin may have up his—"
"Don't push it, Torm," Florin said dryly, and snapped his visor down. His next
words boomed hollowly from inside his fearsome great helm. "Armed with my
reputation, I'm sure we can take the field with sixty-nine rather than
seventy."
As the Knights around them chuckled, the ranger stood tall in his stirrups and
waved his blade. "Ride out!"
The cry was echoed by the captain of the Riders, and all the horses surged
forward eagerly. They were so few that the road took them easily.
More than one watching villager shook his head in disbelief at the calm manner
of Mistledale's defenders. One of the riders—the woman with silver hair, who'd
sat asleep and nearly naked in the window of the Six Shields several nights
running—even laughed merrily at something the thief said to her. The three
rangers riding easily behind her exchanged glances and smiles, and spurred
their horses to pass her by, giving the watching folk of Ashabenford cheerful
waves.
The villagers were not heartened.
One spat into the dust of the road and rumbled, "A handful against thousands!
We'd best be packing the night through and try for Cormyr, I guess.. . ."
"There's no safe place to ride to," the woman standing beside him said
quietly. "I'll be staying on. They'll cut me down in my own fields, to be
sure, but at least I'll die at home, on my own land, an' 111 not have run from
anyone."
"Don't be daft! You want to die screaming, with half a dozen Zhent blackhelms
laughing over you?"
"Nay, but the gods don't seem to care what I want—
4<5
Ail SHADOWS FLED
an' I don't even know the road to Cormyr. This is as good a place to die as
any."
"A thousand warriors, and a thousand more, and many more besides, that
merchant said," another villager said softly. "The Riders'11 all be slain,
sure. Yet hear them laugh!"
"Fools," the first villager grunted. "I'm off to pack. Who's with me?"
"I'll ride to Cormyr with you," said another. "Even if the gods themselves
took the field with our Riders an' these Knights of Myth Drannor, there's no
hope they'll win against so many."
There were many silent nods at these words, and the villagers sighed and
turned away from the road. In the distance, the riders were little more than
tiny moving dots now.
The war band left Ashabenford behind in a few breaths, riding easily east down
the dale. The morning was chilly but clear, and as Florin looked around at his
battle companions and the tranquil, sun-splashed farms on either side, he was
happy. Much blood lay ahead—perhaps the ending of all their bright days— and
yet he was doing what needed to be done, and folk needed him to do it. What
more can anyone ask than to be needed and wanted and free to answer the call?
The captain was guiding her mount closer to his; Florin sidestepped his
charger to meet her. "Aye, Lady?"
Captain Nelyssa's gray-green eyes met his, and her thin lips relaxed into a
rueful smile. "I fret still, Florin. I know what we must do, and yet, to ride
away and leave Ashabenford with not a sword to defend it ... What if a dozen
of them—nay, three of them, with ready blades—sneak past us through the woods?
Who will defend the old men and maids then?"
"Harpers, Lady of Chauntea," Florin told her gravely. "Almost twenty of them,
come to us from Twilight Hall in Berdusk with all the magic Lady Cylyria can
spare. They will fight to hold Ashabenford even if we fall—and
47
ED GREENWOOD
they carry the means to farspeak Twilight Hall and call on swift spell aid."
"Aye." The lady paladin looked troubled. "And spells themselves have become
chancy things of late."
"Not all spells," Sylune put in as she rode on Florin's other side, "else I'd
not be here now."
"And you are very much here," Torm purred from the saddle beside her.
"Stow it, clever tongue," growled the fat priest Rathan, who rode on the
thief's other side, saddle creaking under his weight. "Ye're worse than a boar
in heat!"
Torm favored his best friend with a complicated gesture that had nothing to do
with casting spells.
"Tymora forgive ye," the priest said heavily, crossing his arms disapprovingly
across his ample girth, "but I do not. Seven nights of abstinence shall be thy
penance, I vow!"
"You'll have to chain me somewhere to manage that—and, of course, catch me
first," Torm told him mockingly, ducking his horse smoothly around behind
Sylune's mount.
Rathan sighed and waved at him in mock dismissal.
The captain of the Riders watched with interest. "Can yon thief run at any
speed?" she asked Florin.
"Watch him during the battle," Florin told her dryly. There're few folk—even
winged things—that can keep up with his retreat."
In reply to this, Torm treated the ranger to an even more intricate gesture.
Nelyssa's eyebrows rose. "Droll fellow . . . did he succeed at thieving by
outrunning guards?"
"No," Florin told her, not quite smiling. "Just by staying alive this long.
And he did that by outrunning husbands."
Nelyssa rolled her eyes. "I can see we're going to have to watch ourselves,"
she said sarcastically.
Torm turned in his saddle, winked at her, and then
48
ALL SHADOWS FLED
leered at the Shield of Chauntea until she curtly ordered to him to scout
ahead.
Laughing, Torm waved and galloped away.
"I'd best go after him to keep him out of trouble," Sharantyr said to Belkram
and Itharr. "Come with me?"
"Of course, Shar," they said together, and the three horses leapt ahead as
one.
Sylune watched the three rangers pull away and sighed. Tve grown used to
them," she told Florin. "See you at the battle." She urged her mount into a
canter.
"We're only going to Swords Creek!" Florin said in amused protest. Torm's
probably reached it by now!"
"All the more reason for my being there in haste," Sylune told him severely.
"The less time I give him on his own, the less I'll have to patch or set
right!" And she was gone, galloping hard through the black-armored ranks of
the Riders. Some of them amusedly watched her go; others cast appreciative
glances at the silver hair that streamed out behind her as she crouched low
over her horse's neck.
"Are your Knights always this pranksome?" Captain Nelyssa Shendean asked
Florin quietly, visions of chaos on the battlefield rising before her eyes . .
. chaos that could kill them all.
Florin gave the Shield of Chauntea a smile that had cold steel in it. "Usually
far worse than this," he told her. "They're taking it gently so as not to
upset you, I'd say."
Nelyssa sighed—and then her eyes widened in horror as she realized he wasn't
jesting. Her hand went to the electrum earth pendant around her neck and
brought it to her lips. "Mother Chauntea, preserve and shield us," she
murmured feelingly.
An instant later, the ground rumbled under the hooves of the hurrying horses,
rocking them all. As startled men cursed and hauled at their reins around her,
Nelyssa looked around at Mistledale with a sudden, dazzling
ED GREENWOOD
smile. Then she stood up in her stirrups, whooped, drew her sword, swung it in
a wild, flashing salute to the sun overhead, and galloped off toward Swords
Creek in tearing haste, scattering astonished Riders in all directions.
Florin met Rathan's gaze. He took in the priest's eloquently raised eyebrows,
and shrugged. "We seem to have that effect on folks," he observed. "Tymora
should be happy."
"Oh, she is," Rathan told him. "Wherever we go, the entire Realms around seems
to be plunged into taking wild chances."
"I've noticed that," Florin said in dry tones. "It's not a state of affairs to
everyone's taste."
The stout priest of Tymora shrugged in his turn. "Their loss," he said
piously, "and Faerun's gain. May Tymora smile upon ye in the battle, Florin."
"And upon thee, stout heart," Florin told him. Rathan looked sharply at the
ranger's innocent smile, and found it not quite innocent enough. He snorted
and spurred away, leaving Florin alone with the Riders of Mistledale.
The ranger caught a few questioning looks from the black-armored armsmen
around him, and smiled. "Easy, lads. There's no need to rush into our graves.
The gods wait for us all."
"There're going to be gods at this battle?" one of the Riders asked fearfully.
"Now, lad, let's not get our hopes up," an older Rider said with a grin.
"You've got to save some excitement for your next battle!"
The younger Rider swallowed. "If I live to see another one," he whispered,
"I'll begin to worry about such things, Ostyn."
"That's the spirit!" the older Rider told him. "Cast your worries aside, and
ride on into battle!"
The young Rider looked at him with a very white face and said nothing.
"Keep track of kills, shall we, lad?" Ostyn proposed.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"See which of us can slay the most Zhents?"
The younger Rider stared at him for a moment—and then fainted dead away, his
eyes rolling up as he slid limply from his saddle.
Florin made a grab for the falling Rider's shoulder, caught him, and snapped,
"Get the reins, Ostyn!"
The older Rider did so, deftly, and they guided the mount to an ungainly halt.
The rearguard Riders caught them up. "One down already?" a fat, cheerful woman
asked, looking at the limp form across Florin's lap. "We'll have to ask the
Zhents to hold a thousand or so swords in reserve."
"You're volunteering to ask them?" Florin chuckled as they righted the young
Rider in his saddle and shook him gently back to his senses.
"Never volunteer," Ostyn warned her.
"Actually," she said, indicating the reviving Rider with her sword, "I was
going to nominate him."
The young Rider's eyes snapped open. He stared at her for a moment, face as
white as a priest's vestment— and then, still staring, slid out of his saddle
again.
They let him fall to the ground this time, stared at each other, and sighed.
4 Softly Come the
"Hold up, there!"
One moment the road ahead was empty, but the next, a stern-looking, ragged
crone with the largest, wartiest nose Torm had ever seen was standing calmly
in front of his cantering horse, hand raised, bidding him halt.
Startled, the thief hauled hard on the reins. The war horse under him skidded
in the dust as it reared, bugling, and came to a halt, lashing out with
steel-shod hooves.
The woman regarded it calmly. "An excitable animal—and you must be the
illustrious Torm that the ladies of Twilight Hall have told me so much about."
She turned away, hands on hips, and then turned back to him and asked
curiously, "Did you really get a certain part of your anatomy caught in a
closet door in Zhentil Keep, or was that just a fireside tale?"
Torm sputtered. He'd just noticed that the woman, in her kerchief and ragged
dress, was standing in midair, her muddy, ill-fitting boots a good three feet
off the ground. A merry gale of laughter came from Sharantyr, Belkram, and
Sylune as they reined their mounts in around him. Itharr merely shook his head
in smiling silence.
"Well met, Margrueth," Sylune said, eyes dancing in welcome. The old woman
looked her up and down.
"Got yerself a new body, have you? Hmmph. No one
ALL SHADOWS FLED
offers me a new body to replace this old, aching barrel! I could get used to
yours, really I could. Silver hair and all."
"You wouldn't want to go through what I have," Sylune told her softly.
"Really, you wouldn't."
"Gods, girl—I know that!" Margrueth told her. "I'm old and ugly, not witless!
Just envious, that's all."
"If you're a sorceress," Torm asked her curiously, "why don't you choose any
looks you want?"
Margrueth glared at him sourly. "That would work for snaring a man for a night
of pleasure—if, like some folk here, stolen nights of pleasure were what I
wanted!"
She let the rebuke hang in the air between them, but Torm merely shrugged, so
the old Harper went on. "Sooner or later, though—with my luck, sooner—the one
I was with'd see the real me. I'd not hide it, mind; the real me is the one
I'm proud of. Some of us value honesty over deceit."
"Some of us must be fools," Torm returned sharply, causing Rathan to chuckle
as he slowed his horse to join the group of riders.
"Fool I may be," Margrueth told him, "but I could be in worse straits than
this!" She gestured at her nose, and swept her hand down at her fat, shapeless
body.
"How?" Torm asked, falling into the trap.
"I could have your looks," she told him sweetly, and turned away. Then she
turned back again. "It did get caught in that door, didn't it?"
There was a general hoot of laughter, and Torm snarled and urged his mount
forward—only to find that the stout old woman flashed through the air to block
his way once more.
"I stopped you for a reason, Lord Torm," she told him severely. "Beyond this
point our traps start, and the road ceases to be safe—even for thieves with
clever tongues and more luck than Tymora gives anyone! Yonder is Swords
Creek."
ED GREENWOOD
Torm looked at the little rivulet meandering its muddy way across the fields,
and asked curiously, "Why Swords Creek for our stand? Is it just a place
easily found among all these fields?"
"Mistledale tradition," the captain of the Riders said from behind him. She
brought her horse to a halt in a wild thudding of hooves. "On these hanks many
battles were fought of old."
"And we Harpers've been here since yestereve, preparing it for one more,"
Margrueth added. "Water spells to make the ground sodden and turn wet spots
into bogs to break Zhent cavalry charges, wild magic areas there and there—no,
Torm, you can't see them— for the foe to halt in, and suchlike."
* 'We Harpers'?" Torm asked. "Aside from you, I can see only two men."
"Ah, that's because they're not done yet," the old woman told him. The
others're in hiding already."
"Hiding? Where?" Torm asked, looking around at apparently empty fields. "Are
they all mages using invisibility?"
"No. Not one," she replied with a smile.
Torm shook his head. "There's not a man alive who could hide under my nose
between here and that creek."
As the words left his lips, the thief felt a solid tap on his left boot—and
his war horse reared again. Cursing, Torm wrestled to keep it from leaping
forward; he was struggling to head the snorting beast around, away from the
creek, when Captain Nelyssa's strong arm caught hold of the bridle. The
paladin pulled and whistled, and Term's mount quieted immediately—allowing the
thief to cleverly fall off.
As he bounced on his belly in the dust, Torm found himself staring eyeball to
eyeball with the grinning cause of his upset: a dust-covered man buried
neck-deep in the earth, who held a sword, hilt uppermost, in one hand. It must
have been what had tapped his boot. In his other gauntleted hand, the man held
a shield
ALL SHADOWS FLED
that had been so thickly covered with turf and grass that it had served to
entirely conceal the hole he was crouching in.
"Ye gods!" Torm gasped.
"No, even being one god'd be a promotion, I think," the Harper replied
cheerfully. "Fine morning to be out on the grass, 'taint it, Lord?"
The riders all around them roared with laughter at Term's expression—until the
thief buried his nose in the grass and laughed along with them. He nodded to
the Harper, rolled to a sitting position, and squinted up at Margrueth.
"Right, then, I'll grant you the victory. So tell me how many more of these
little holes have you scattered around Mistledale?"
Margrueth shook her head soberly. "That, I'll tell no one. Spying spells that
listen to speech from afar aren't easily blocked out in the open."
Her words made them all look around—but aside from the two Harpers in the
distance and Florin arriving with the Rider rearguard (one of them looking
decidedly green), they could see no man or beast.
"But there's no one!" Torm said, waving a hand.
Margrueth shrugged. "There could be a small army of those mages using
invisibility, young man. Think before you speak, and you'll not feel so often
chastened."
Torm gave her a dark look, and then shook his head and grinned. "I begin to
wish I'd had you as my mother."
"So do I, lad," Margrueth replied, "So do I. Your backside would've seen a lot
more heat, and valuables belonging to others and good-looking ladies a lot
less, in the years since."
"Hmmm," Torm replied with rueful eloquence, and there was more laughter.
"Oh, bloody bats! It's gone wrong again—and they're all laughingF
ED GREENWOOD
"Not at ye," the older man said, watching the young man fling down the tangled
trip wire in fury, his fingers trembling in agitated excitement. "Easy, lad,"
the gray-haired Harper ranger added. "Time for all that falling and dancing
about an' all later—when ye've a sword in yer hand an' several hundred Zhents
taking their turn at ye."
"How can you be so calm about it?" his younger companion protested. "We're
going to die!"
Level brown eyes stared into his. "Aye, so? We all have to, lad, but there's
nothing as says we have to behave like craven cattle first." The old man
deftly disentangled the thread and held it out. "An' another thing," he
continued, "I've been in about forty o' these little affrays before, an' them
as came to kill me haven't quite managed the job yet. It might well take 'em
as many tries afore they get ye, too! I've seen it all before, lad . . . take
heart, and be easy, I say."
The young man stared into those level brown eyes, took a deep breath, and then
bent and tied the trip wire-—quickly and surely. Then he stepped back with a
flourish, smiled tightly at the gray-haired Harper, and said, "Done. I hope
you remember where our hide is."
"Here, under my boot," the older man said with a smile. "Another trick you'd
do well to remember."
"Bloody bats to you, too," the younger Harper said almost affectionately,
scrambling down into the pit they'd dug. The old man followed, waving to
Margrueth as he reached for the turf-covered shield that would hide them from
the world.
But Margrueth wasn't looking at him. She was looking up, frowning at a raven
circling in the bright morning sky high above. She said something to Sylune,
who lifted one shapely arm to hurl magic up into the sky—a spell that was
never cast.
The raven came out of its lazy circle like an arrow, streaking south and east.
But from the blue emptiness high above came another bird, a steel-gray falcon
with
ALL SHADOWS FLED
talons outstretched. It struck like a hammer, and then flapped up and away in
triumph amid a cloud of black feathers. For just a moment, the watchers below
caught a glimpse of silver hair and tattered black robes, and then the slayer
was a falcon once more.
Even as Torm gasped, "The Simbul!" the falcon's kill fell to earth, twisting
and growing as it plummeted.
It was the broken body of a black-robed human wizard that crashed into one
muddy bank of Swords Creek. The mage flopped bonelessly once, and then lay
sprawled and still. One Zhentarim would never spy on Mistledale again.
The old Harper looked back up at the sky. "Well, I lied to ye," he said to the
stunned young Harper beside him. "I hadn't seen it all before. I've seen gales
and fog and lances of lightning leaping across the sky—but I've never seen it
rain wizards before!"
Ordulin, Sembia, Flamerule 16
The morning sun sent bright rays through the casement of tinted glass, casting
a many-hued image of light upon the floor furs. That meant it was past time
for clients of the Winking Will-o'-the-Wisp Pleasure Palace to be gone so
linen could be washed, ladies could bathe and sleep, and coins could be safely
exchanged at the nearest bank for soft metal trade tokens stamped with the
sunburst symbol of the house.
The occupants of the Red Sash Room on the third floor, however, could not have
cared less about the hour—for very different reasons. One of those occupants
was Baedelkar the Thaumaturge, rising hope of the Zhentarim, who held the Lady
of the Red Sash in his arms as if he never intended to let her go.
Her milk-white skin was soft and smooth against him, and her kisses warm and
sweet, with the faintest
$7
ED GREENWOOD
hint of exotic spices . . . nutmeg? Dunbark? Cinnamon? Ah, but it mattered
not.
At that ardent moment, a fist fell upon the other side of the bolted door. It
was an imperious fist, but the door was thick and carpeted to steal away
sound, and the couple within, seated together on the edge of the large
circular bed, did not want to hear it. Their lips met again, and clung.
The fist, however, was persistent. Another blow fell upon the door, and then
another, and so on, until they were joined by a softly menacing, magically
sent voice: "I know you're within, Baedelkar. The Inner Circle has need of us
both, immediately. We've been ordered to join the Sword, somewhere north of
Essembra, right now."
After a momentary, answering silence (during which the Lady of the Red Sash
murmured and moved in Baedelkar's arms) the voice went on: "Neither High Lord
Manshoon nor I am used to waiting . . . for an apprentice. Presently one or
both of us shall grow weary of it, Baedelkar—and then it will be too late for
you to continue as a Zhentarim ... or anything else."
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge cursed in a soft whisper with feeling, and made as
if to pull free . . . but the large, sapphire eyes staring into his pleaded
with him, and sweet lips begged, "Just one more kiss, proud lord ... a brief
parting, until we meet again." Those lips lifted longingly toward his.
Baedelkar hesitated for only a moment before he bent his head hungrily
forward. It was the last mistake he ever made.
The arms caressing his back seemed stronger and broader, the tongue in his
mouth thicker. Starting to choke, the Zhentarim tried to pull away, but found
that he was locked in an embrace as unyielding as steel, and tentacles were
sliding around him. The eyes so close to his held a horrible flame of triumph
as the flesh of her exquisite face bulged and moved, flowing up and over his
own visage, covering his nose even as the cold and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
questing tentacle that had been a velvet-smooth tongue flowed down his throat,
choking him. And preventing him from uttering even the simplest spell.
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge struggled in earnest, then, fighting with sudden
desperation against the death embracing him. A red roaring rose up in his
head, and creeping flesh rolled over his eyes, blotting out his last glimpse
of Faerun—a sun-splashed room and those malevolent, glittering eyes in a face
that had become a nightmare of flowing flesh....
Bane aid me... Bane aid me ... Bane ...
"Right, Baedelkar," the cultured voice beyond the door snarled, suddenly
losing its drawling grace. "You've defied me long enough! I hope you'll still
think she was worth it, after I do—thisF
The wizard's body began to shake violently, and pulse with light. The
tentacled thing hurriedly flung it back onto the bed and flowed away across
the room, to where the wizard's robe lay across a discarded body harness: a
thing of leather straps that held a slim satchel of potion vials, several
bulging pouches of sundries to spin spells, and ... a small, well-worn
spellbook with battered metal corners.
The creeping thing flowed up and over this heap of magic and, without slowing,
turned and slithered along the wall. In its wake, the wizard's belongings were
gone, the side chest bare. Meanwhile, the body on the bed jerked and thrashed
in spell thrall, and then leapt up into the air once and crashed down in limp
silence.
As tentacles hurriedly tore open the casements and let the chill air of
morning into the room, there was a snarl of fury from beyond the door—and then
a muttered incantation. It rose to a singing final word, and then came ominous
silence.
The monstrous, shapeshifting mass flowed out the window and up the wall
outside, disappearing from the room seconds before the gilded door of the Red
Sash Room burst apart in a rain of dust and splinters.
ED GREENWOOD
Nentor Thuldoum of the Zhentarim stood in the doorway, blinking in incredulous
rage.
"You worm! You disobedient ti—" Nentor's fury fled as he saw what lay on the
bed. His jaw dropped, and he stared down in horror at the riven remains. His
spell had scorched Baedelkar with a lashing lightning, but should not have
eaten away body and brains from within, leaving behind a shriveled husk . . .
and empty eye sockets.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
Thuds and splinterings resounded across Swords Creek as the defenders of
Mistledale drove tree trunks into the ground in an outward curve west of the
stream. A steady stream of wagons was creaking east along the road from
Ashabenford as Riders watched the land to the east for any sign of the
approaching foe.
"Leave openings there and there" Kuthe directed as Riders swarmed past him in
pairs, carrying logs. Beyond them, more of the black-armored men were hewing
the ends of the sloped stakes into sharp points. "I hope well need room to
ride out into the fray in force."
"/ hope the Zhents fall dead of the blistering plague and we don't have a fray
at all," a farmer muttered, snapping his reins to begin the run back to town
for more supplies. He stood up as the empty wagon rattled away, looking around
the busy camp, and shaking his head. Not a hundred swords to defend Mistledale
against—how many? Two, three thousand, or more? The word from Essembra was
that they'd outgrown all the beds in the place a tenday ago, with not a third
of the force mustered. The Sword of the South, indeed— and they'd have a
Zhentarim wizard or three with them, too.
He looked back at the camp once more and spat
ALL SHADOWS FLED
thoughtfully into the rising road dust. An army this small wouldn't delay the
Zhent host more than an hour or two on its march to Mistledale. Death might
well come for him before dusk today—but where was there to run? He couldn't
pluck up his steading and stow it in a pack to take with him. Stand or fall,
it'd be here, in Mistledale, where he'd lived his life. The fanner slowed the
wagon to make his trip back down the dale as long as he could—it might be his
last look around at the finest place to dwell in all Faerun. He tried not to
think about the likelihood that by sundown tomorrow it might also be the
finest graveyard in Faerun.
A steel-gray falcon circled high in the cloudless sky overhead, for all the
world as if it was taking interest in the encampment taking shape by the
creek. The farmer squinted up at it, spat again, and went down the dale toward
Ashabenford, where the high councilor would be waving his black scepter and
barking orders. Heedless of him, wagoners would load in haste and head east,
and fleeing townsfolk would drive overloaded carts west.
The breezes died away to the softest of stirrings, what the folk of the dale
called a ghost's kiss. By the banks of the creek, a tall, broad-shouldered man
in gleaming plate armor looked around the palisade of wooden fangs and saw
that it was now almost a full circle. He nodded in satisfaction and turned to
where a farmer stood by his laden wagon.
"Bring the tents," Florin Falconhand said to the man. "We'd best get started."
Kuthe frowned at the tall ranger. "This soon?"
"I doubt they'll attack before dark," the Knight of Myth Drannor replied.
"Before they could get here, it'll be sundown; they'd have to charge with the
setting sun in their eyes."
Kuthe grunted his agreement and turned away. "No cooking fires until the tents
are up!" he bellowed, "and don't drop those barrels of beer or I'll leave you
to face
ED GREENWOOD
the men who have to go thirsty!"
"Noisy, isn't he?" Torm muttered, critically inspecting the wicked-looking
point he'd whittled on the end of one stake.
"A paragon of authority," Rathan grunted, taking a swig from his belt flask.
"I've no quarrel if he's as much in evidence when we start hacking at each
other in the mud and the blood." He took another pull at the flask, which
gurgled.
Torm looked up at the sound. "Hey! Give that here," he suggested, extending a
hand.
"What's this?" Kuthe growled, striding past. "Drinking?" His eyes flashed.
"He sees the flask and instantly knows what we're doing!" Torm gasped in mock
fear. "Can no man stand against this tower of perception?"
"I fear not," Rathan growled. "He makes my boots quake, and me in them. Wits
as keen as a sword blade—and tongue sharper, too!" Both Knights threw up their
hands as if in awe and cowered, wailing.
"Bah!" the Rider officer snarled, and turned away. "Adventurers!"
"Bah!" Torm called after him, his mimicry perfect. "Stiff-necked local
constabulary!"
Kuthe stiffened as more than one of the Riders around them chuckled, but did
not turn around. After a moment, he strode on.
"Hind end of a blind boar," Torm muttered conversationally as they moved to
the next stake.
"Torm's entertaining himself as usual, I see," Sharantyr observed to Sylune as
they worked on their own stakes not far away.
The Witch of Shadowdale grinned. "He doesn't know it yet, but I volunteered
him for digging the privies."
Sharantyr sighed. "You use the ladies' first, then. I've no wish to be the one
who tries out his latest collection of 'humorous' traps."
"Does he do that to the pit for the men, too?" Itharr
ALL SHADOWS FLKD
asked, looking up from the fire pit he and Belkram were digging. Sharantyr
looked over at him and nodded. "Ah, thanks for the warning," the Harper
grunted, and knelt to begin lining the pit with stones.
A pair of men in black armor emblazoned with the white horse of Mistledale
approached with two large, rope-wrapped canvas bundles. "Your tent," the
Riders told Itharr, "and one for the ladies."
"One is all well need," Sharantyr said serenely, moving to the last
unsharpened stake. "I'm used to the snores of these two by now."
The Rider raised his eyebrows and looked her up and down. Sharantyr raised her
own eyebrows in reply, and said coolly, "I'm an adventurer, remember?"
The man rolled his eyes and turned away, face expressionless behind his
bristling mustache. His companion growled "Lucky dogs" quite distinctly as
they went on down the line of stakes.
"If you knew," Belkram said to the Riders' backs. "If you only knew."
"I heard that," Sylune said warningly, and both Harpers looked up at her with
such looks of bewildered innocence that she giggled.
Sharantyr puzzled out how the ropes were tangled, and got the tent unrolled.
She hummed a merry tune as she laid it out, shaking her head to clear her
nostrils of the strong—and expected—reek of mildew. Such things were always
put away damp. She critically surveyed the forest-green tent and its white
horse blazon. "Does someone in the dale run a camp for bored Sembian nobles?"
"Aye," Belkram told her as the two Harpers came to join her, expertly plucking
the poles out of the heart of the rumpled canvas. "But they're under the
misapprehension that they're just housing the short-coin laborers who arrive
each harvest to help get the crop off the fields . . . it's not until they see
their hired help at work in the fields that they realize how many bored
Sembian nobles they're carrying."
ED GREENWOOD
Sharantyr chuckled at that as Belkram held the tent up with one pole, and
Itharr crawled inside to raise it from within. "I could get used to having
both of you gallant blades around," she said affectionately, fielding the
tangle of tent rope that Sylune tossed to her.
"Just two of us? Is that enough to keep up with you?" Belkram asked with a
grin.
"On some mornings," Sharantyr said, thrusting over his head the emptied sack
that had held the tent pegs. "On some mornings."
"Mmpnffh," he replied firmly.
"Exactly what I was going to say," Itharr agreed, head emerging from the
half-raised tent. "Mmphffh."
Sharantyr and Sylune sighed, smiled, and shook their heads in unison.
"Get him a bag, too," Torm suggested, pointing at Itharr as he walked past.
"Me, too, and Rathan. After all, you know what they say—all men're the same
with a bag over—"
"Enough, Torm!" Sylune said, and snapped her fingers. The thief vanished in
midstep, and they heard his surprised "Hoy!" of protest from the far end of
the camp as he reappeared, looked around, and started back toward them.
"Poor Torm," Sharantyr said, watching him. "I wonder if hell ever grow into
dignity and polite manners? I suppose he must grow up someday."
"For some of us," Sylune observed serenely, "it's a long walk."
Battledale, Flamerule 16
There was a sudden flash of emerald radiance from the empty saddle ahead, and
Swordlord Amglar stiffened, hand going to the hilt of his sword—just in case.
Spellmaster Myarvuk rode ahead of the hitherto
(54
ALL SHADOWS FLED
unladen horse, the mount under him linked to it by a long lead. Now he was
twisting around to see what had befallen, clinging to his saddle in an
ungainly attempt not to fall off. Amglar watched him in grim amusement. These
wizards all rode with the grace and balance of lumpy sacks of feed—and if the
expression on Myarvuk's face was any guide, about as much comfort.
As both men stared at the green light pulsing and growing stronger in the
saddle, Amglar watched the Zhentarim mage's tense face . . . until, suddenly,
he knew the new thing he was seeing there: fear.
A second empty-saddled horse pulled its lead free and galloped off to the
right. The swordlord's gaze darted to it, but no radiance or other sign of
magic appeared. If the gods smiled, perhaps there'd only be one high Zhentarim
joining them.
Of course, given what utter ice-hearted bastards all powerful mages of the
Black Network were, one was more than enough.
The emerald light had built into the shape of a seated man now, and the
swordlord sighed amid the endless thunder of hooves. The rest of his time with
the Sword of the South was not going to be enjoyable—and might well encompass
the rest of his life, given the ruthless and sensitive nature of senior
Zhentarim.
The green radiance flashed and faded, revealing a richly cloaked man who sat
his saddle as if he'd always been there—and was already looking grimly about,
his face as black as old night.
At least this one could ride. Amglar forced a grim half smile onto his own
face as the Zhent wizard turned to look behind him.
"For the glory of Zhentil Keep," the swordlord said in formal welcome. The
wizard merely nodded curtly and turned his head away. Oh, joy. Getting this
one to take the slightest notice of orders was going to be nigh impossible.
Best start wading into the blood now, then. Amglar reined his horse in beside
the galloping wizard.
Eo GREENWOOD
"Lord Manshoon sends his greetings, Spellmaster Thuldoum," Amglar said loudly,
keeping his voice calm and unhurried. Young Myarvuk had lost his title, of
course, the moment his superior here had arrived.
"Give me his message," Thuldoum said in bored tones, extending a gloved hand.
"I do hope to find it still sealed."
"No message," Amglar returned calmly as they thundered on up the road toward
the Standing Stone. "Manshoon farspoke me, and bade me pass on his feelings."
If this warning had no effect, things were going to be a royal muddle from now
on.
"I see," the senior Zhentarim replied in tones of clear disbelief. Amglar
shrugged, letting the man see his gesture. Of course, most Zhentarim would see
such nonchalance as the bravado of a fool, not the confidence of a man secure
in his power. He was just going to have to educate this one differently.
"Myarvuk," the new arrival snapped grimly, obviously short on patience,
"Baedelkar will not be joining us. Your duties will now include his."
The younger Zhentarim nodded in expressionless silence; Amglar knew he was
wondering if this cheerful newcomer had been the cause of Baedelkar's
disappearance—and if one Myarvuk would be the next wizard to drop out of sight
forever when Nentor Thuldoum grew displeased.
He'd never worked with the man before, but knew that Thuldoum had been deadly
in battle while riding out of the Citadel of the Raven against brigands,
Thent-ian freehands, and all manner of goblinkin and monsters of Thar. Later
the senior Zhentarim had come to Zhentil Keep to train battle mages for the
Network; "Dull Doom" he'd been to his apprentices, due to his dry, studious
manner and the short, ruthless temper it concealed. Not a man to cross.
Nonetheless, Myarvuk, son of Thaelon, was going to do just that. Starting, in
a small way, now.
<5<5
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"What was Baedelkar's fate?" Myarvuk asked, with the most casual 'I'd better
know' tone he could muster.
"Dead," Nentor said shortly, "slain in his bed by" — he shrugged to indicate
that his next words were a guess — "something he must have tried to summon."
His mouth shut like a falling portcullis, making it plain that no more would
be forthcoming about his absent apprentice. Then he turned his head to glare
at Amglar again.
"Swordlord," he snapped, making it sound as if he'd been asking for it
repeatedly and was growing impatient, "I await your report of the doings of
the Sword thus far. Come up here where I can see you."
Amglar inclined his head in slow, silent acquiescence, and spurred his mount
forward. Yes, it was going to be a long road to Shadowdale. . . .
Glorious Victories ARC ELtisioe Things
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, Flamerule 16
"Snug, my lord?" Shaerl asked, tightening the straps that held the plates
around Mourngrym's upper thighs.
"Keep your fingers on the buckles," the lord of Shadowdale told his wife with
an affectionate grin, reaching down to tousle her hair. They were alone in
their bedchamber in the Tower of Ashaba, hiding Mourngrym's wounds from the
wagging tongues of rumor. He didn't want half of Shadowdale fleeing because
they'd heard he was dead.
It had been a very near thing. Without Blminster, Storm, or Sylune to hand,
with the temples already crammed to the rafters with wounded, and with Lhaeo
busy ransacking the heavily trapped cellars of Elmin-ster's Tower in search of
healing potions and weapons, there were few people left in the dale who could
deal with wounds caused by poisoned blades. A white-faced Shaerl had spent a
long evening cutting open her lord, tears and his blood mingling together on
her face as she brushed errant locks of hair out of her eyes and bent
repeatedly to her grisly task.
Mourngrym winced as she forced a sideplate over the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
quilted undertunic on his ribs, which bulged where they shouldn't because of
the bandages beneath. "Sorry, Mourn," she muttered, feeling his muscles
tighten under her hands.
The lord of Shadowdale let out a sigh. "Don't be. Without you I'd be dead
right now, and the dale fallen."
Shaerl made a rude noise. "Such dramatics! Do you think I'd flee or put a
dagger in my heart if you died, when your killers and those who sent them will
come marching into my reach in a few days?"
Mourngrym smiled and put out a hand—the one without the gauntlet—to the side
of her face, tilting her jaw up so that he could kiss her.
His wife, the fiery temper of her noble Rowanmantle upbringing lurking not far
behind her eyes, kissed him with ardent passion, locking her fingers in his
hair to ensure that this wouldn't be a brief brush of lips.
"Try not to get carved up this time," she chided him when she released him at
last. "I don't want to spend another night like yestereve."
"As the dancer said to the high priest," Mourngrym murmured. Shaerl sighed at
this, her lord's habit of lame Waterdhavian humor, and handed him his helm,
sword, and remaining gauntlet.
Nodding in acknowledgment, the lord of Shadowdale said, "Now I really must get
to horse." He strode away—but before he'd taken three paces, she'd slipped
around to bar his path, a slim but imperious hand slapped hard against the
Amcathra arms emblazoned on his breastplate.
"Sword and gauntlet on and in place before you go out that door—and the helm
before you set foot outside the tower. I don't want to be married to a
headless man. They're not quite talkative enough."
Mourngrym sighed, smiled, and did as he was bid. It was easiest to comply, as
always, and his sharp-tongued mate was right—as always. Who was to say a Zhent
agent, or merely someone in need of the coins they'd
ED GREENWOOD
pay, wasn't lurking a bowshot away from the tower, or in a balcony above the
courtyard, awaiting his chance?
These past two rides Zhent raiders had kept Shadow-dale's defenders busy
fighting off several attempts to burn the dale's smithy and granaries. There
had also been the setting of several fires along the roads into the dale, no
doubt to widen them and rob defenders of any cover; the attempt to taint the
River Ashaba upstream by dumping carrion into it; and the poison dumped into
the well of the Old Skull Inn—which had forced Lhaeo to call on the Simbul and
endure her acidic lecture on placing a guard over basic necessities. The
problem was that Mourngrym had too few competent guards to do that, let alone
hold' Shadowdale against thousands of well-equipped Zhentilar troops led by
gods-knew-how-many Zhent priests and mages.
"Wouldn't it be nice," he asked Shaerl as he settled the sword on his hip and
she surveyed the result critically, "if some mad god or other would just crush
Zhen-til Keep to rubble for us?"
"Ill see to it," she told him briskly, "but I'd take it more kindly if they'd
settle for simply crushing the hosts on their way here to slaughter us ... and
if I knew where Elminster was just now."
"Boo!" breathed an all-too-familiar voice on the back of her neck.
Shaerl shrieked as she leapt forward into Mourn-grym's arms. The lord of
Shadowdale began to laugh helplessly, shaking his lady—and she broke free and
spun like a dancer on one small bare foot to confront the Old Mage, her eyes
snapping with anger.
"Must you always creep up on folks invisibly and then try to startle them with
grand entrances?"
"Everyone needs a hobby, look ye," Elminster said, regarding her with eyes
that sparkled in amusement, "and that's one of mine."
"Well, find another! Gods! My heart's still—feel it! It's—"
7O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"No, love," Mourngrym said hastily as the gleam in Elminster's eye grew
brighter, "you don't want to make that sort of offer! Not with Elminster!"
Shaerl turned on him. "And you! Laughing at my discomfort, like a boy playing
in the street! You ought to be—"
"Somewhere quieter," Mourngrym said sarcastically, striding past her, "like
the heart of a battle with the entire Zhent army!"
Shaerl made a gesture in his direction. Mourngrym waggled one steel-clad
finger at her in mock admonishment, and went out.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed away her exasperation and turned back to
Elminster. "Be welcome, Old Mage," she said softly. "I'd appreciate a chance
to talk about what lies ahead for us, if you've the time."
" Tis why I came," Elminster rumbled, "now that my work at the Standing Stone
is done: three arrow swarms, and a little something extra." He went straight
to Mourngrym's most comfortable chair and sat down with a grunt of pleasure,
swinging his feet up over one of its massive arms.
Shaerl smiled at that and started toward the sideboard where the decanters of
wine awaited—but she'd taken only a few steps before a full goblet of her
favorite vintage came gliding up to hang in the air in front of her. She took
it, turned, and saw Elminster raising an identical drink in salute. "To a lady
who does not take serious contributions from idiots," he announced.
Shaerl grinned, shook her head slightly, and returned his toast. "To a wizard
who takes more delight in misbehaving than does a small child—and is all the
more welcome here for it."
They both drank. Shaerl discovered the bottom of her glass, shrugged, and
continued to the sideboard to take up the decanter. She had a feeling she was
going to want a lot more of this before they were done. . . .
+ 71 +
ED GREENWOOD
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 16
"Dusk comes swiftly," Swordlord Amglar told the two wizards, pointing at the
red sun glimmering low in the west.
"We press on," Nentor Thuldoum told him coldly. "If we try to camp at the
Standing Stone, we'll be in the trees or strung out along three roads—and we
can be attacked along each one."
"So much is common knowledge," Amglar agreed calmly. "I merely wish to point
out that if we press on to Mistledale, it'll be dark by the time we ride out
of the trees—ideal conditions for our foes to ambush us."
The spellmaster turned on him with menacing slowness. "Are you trying to tell
me what to do?"
"Yes," Amglar said evenly, locking eyes with him. "That's exactly what I'm
trying to do. Manshoon does expect you to take orders from me; his description
of you, as I recall, was 'a fool, but a biddable fool.' Shall I report to him
that he was wrong?"
Thuldoum held his eyes for a long, cold moment as their saddles creaked under
them. Myarvuk, riding just ahead, hummed a tune, trying to pretend he could
hear nothing of this. Thuldoum said softly, "I'm watching you, Swordlord.
Watching and waiting for the slightest slip, the smallest excuse ... be
careful. Be very, very careful."
Amglar raised his eyebrows, but his face remained expressionless. "I always
am," he said, and the spell-master could have sworn that the warrior's eyes
held a glint of mocking laughter.
Then they were slowing to round the turn onto the Moonsea Ride under the
watchful bulk of the ancient Standing Stone. There was a brief confusion as
mounted Zhentilar armsmen looked back expecting orders to halt, heard nothing,
and rather tentatively con-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
tinued, heading west toward Mistledale.
The rings on the spellmaster's hands winked with sudden radiance, and the air
all around was filled with humming arrows. Shafts leapt from the trees on
their left, hissing into startled men and their mounts alike, easily piercing
black Zhentilar armor.
"We're under attack!" someone bellowed.
"Dismount! Into the trees there—charge!" Amglar shouted, pointing with his
sword. "In at them!"
His orders made Spellmaster Thuldoum turn to him, and Amglar saw that the
wizard was staring down at his rings in astonishment. As they looked at each
other, the rings flashed again—and another volley of arrows came hissing out
of the trees on the other side of the road.
Amglar's eyes narrowed as he ducked low on his horse's neck, but it was too
late to stop the rush of furious armsmen into the trees, charging in as he'd
ordered. Horses screamed and reared, and men toppled from saddles everywhere
in the tangled intersection. The swordlord fought to stay in his saddle.
"Back, mages!" he bellowed, waving with his sword toward the Standing Stone
itself. "Back!"
By some favor of the gods, neither Zhentarim had been hit; they spurred their
horses after him, ruthlessly riding down armsmen in their haste.
"Swordcap-tains, to me!" Amglar roared as he reached the trees to the east,
his eyes on the woods to the north. If his hunch was right, there'd be no more
arrows from there—nor any other attack.
"Is this your doing, mage?" he snarled when a frightened-looking spellmaster
rode up to him.
"No!" Thuldoum barked. "If these arrows are spell-borne, it's not a magic I
know! I—"
His rings flashed once more. He was staring down at them in horror when the
trees on the eastern side of the road erupted in clothyard shafts! An arrow
took Amglar through the shoulder, and another three thudded into
73
ED GREENWOOD
his charger. Yelling in pain and fury, he flung himself free as it bucked and
went down, crashing over backward atop an unfortunate armsman.
He hit the road hard and bounced in the dust, winded. Myarvuk slid from his
saddle, half a dozen shafts standing out from his body and a glazed, lifeless
stare in his eyes. Gods spit on it—the truly biddable mage down already!
As Amglar fought for his breath, arrows flared into flames and then
nothingness around the spellmaster, who must have some sort of magical shield
against them—of course, Amglar thought sourly. But the volley tore into the
officers turning in answer to his call. The intersection was full of rolling,
maddened horses and sprawled, trampled bodies ... in just a few breaths half
an army had been reduced to bloody chaos.
"Halt!" Amglar roared, struggling to his feet, arm and shoulder burning. He
ran into the path of the second 'lance,' just as they came thundering up the
road to see what had occurred. "Halt!"
He staggered hastily back—a thousand cantering horses can't stop
immediately—tripped on a body, and with a roar of pain fetched up against a
tree.
"Sir?" A swordcaptain asked, beside him. Through red mists of pain, Amglar set
his teeth and looked up. Blood was coursing down his arm, bright red on the
black armor; he clutched at his arm and snarled, "Get a horn and call the
rally and retreat to those I sent into the woods. They'll not find a foe
unless they run on all the way to the dale! Then relay the order to halt! On
your way, send three or four more captains to me!"
The man nodded and hurried away, wasting no time on salutes or words. Amglar
glared after him. Good. At least one Zhentilar knew how to be an officer; he'd
have to remember that man's face.
Feeling the spellmaster's eyes on him but paying no attention, Amglar strode
to meet the officers who were hurrying toward him. "Clear this place," he
ordered.
74
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Drag everything up the north road, and set torches; we'll strip the bodies
later. Slay any horse that can't stand on four good legs. Let no man touch the
fallen mage—that task is for the spellmaster alone." Without turning his head,
he snapped, Thuldoum! Be about it."
The Zhentarim said nothing, but Amglar heard the creaking of leather as the
wizard dismounted, and a snort of irritation from the man's horse as someone
else took the reins.
"I want you to know," the spellmaster said in a low, fast voice, "that I had
no part in this attack. It was not my doing—and nothing I carry has any power
to hurl arrows anywhere!"
"I know, mage," Amglar said shortly. "It was some sort of arrow spell—three
spells, belike—set to go off when something enchanted passed by: your rings.
They're probably rolling around laughing in Mistledale right now. See to your
dead comrade."
He walked away without looking at the Zhentarim and headed to the front of the
lance that had halted on the road. He would tell them to dismount and set a
watch in the trees in case there were archers or rangers lurking out there.
Dead men lay heaped underfoot. Someone was groaning weakly under a pile of
bodies off to the right. Amglar scowled. A swordlord's lot is not a happy one.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
"Who goes?" The challenge came out of the night. The voice sounded young and
eager, and its owner was probably holding a loaded crossbow. Jhessail sighed
and spoke quickly before Illistyl or Merith could say anything smart. "Owls
are blue tonight," she told the darkness calmly. "Kuthe's patrol, with three
Knights of Myth Drannor. I am Jhessail of Shadowdale."
ED GREENWOOD
"Pass, Lady," the voice said, sounding suddenly respectful, even wistful.
An admirer, then, probably a Harper. Merith laid a hand on his lady's thigh
and squeezed. Leaning close, the elf whispered, "Men who lust after you are
everywhere in the Realms, it seems. Truly I am fortunate to have arrived in
your arms first, and—"
"Oh, do belt up, dear," Jhessail said, grinning.
"Aye," Illistyl's sharp tones came out of the close darkness on Jhessail's
other side. "And forthwith, before I spew!"
"If ye can stand the company of the two blades she's picked up, who both fancy
themselves clever—Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers—Sharantyr's left room and
a warm fire for ye," the gruff tones of Rathan came to them out of the night.
"Kind of her," Jhessail said, "but we're going right back out after we feed
and hobble our horses. We're going to be a little surprise in the Zhentarim
backside on the morrow!"
"Ye'll probably lift a few eyebrows hereabouts, too, if ye try charging on
hobbled horses!" Rathan chuckled.
"We're leaving the horses here, you dolt," Jhessail told him affectionately.
"Where's Term?"
"He felt restless, and wanted to go 'exploring,' as he put it," the burly
priest replied. "So I gave him a little too much wine and smote him one. He'll
wake before dawn, in. just the right mood for a good battle."
"I'm glad it's you who shares a tent with him," Illistyl said feelingly.
"I'll be only too happy to surrender my sleeping furs to thee, gentle maid,"
Rathan said eagerly, "and I'm sure Term won't object in the slightest!"
"Ah, ha!" Illistyl agreed flatly. "I doubt he'd mind, indeed." She rode on,
turning to add, "111 save my furious defenses for the fray tomorrow."
"I rather think we all will, lass," the elderly voice of a dale farmer came
gruffly out of the nearby darkness.
76
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Or we'll be dead before another night comes down on the Realms."
*****
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 16
"Galath's Roost is the only logical place to camp for the night—that's the
problem," Swordlord Amglar said to the silent ring of officers around the map.
"What problem?" Spellmaster Thuldoum said sharply. For some hours now, he'd
been trying to overcome his own fright and whispers of incompetence or
disloyalty by playing the sharp-tongued aggressor. Everyone in earshot was
tired of it.
"I mean, wizard," Amglar explained in wearily patient tones that brought
secret smiles to the lips of a few swordcaptains, "that it's the place our
foes expect us. Just as they knew we'd pass by this spot."
He waved at the road behind them and the dark and silent bulk of the Standing
Stone beyond. Three hundred armsmen and six score war horses lay dead along
the north road, heaped cottage-high under the stars . . . and already the
wolves were howling, nearer each time. Amglar tried not to think of the
fallen. The dead were beyond his orders; it was the living he had to worry
about.
"So?" the Zhentarim said coolly. "They hardly have enough blades to hold a
ruin against us, even in the dark. And my spells can make it bright as day, so
our archers can keep to the night and strike down well-lit targets as they
please."
"I'm thinking there'll be traps there, not defenders," Amglar said heavily. "I
don't suppose you can see into the place from here, can you? Or better: let
our veteran swordcaptains look at things. They'll know traps better than
either of us." To say anything else might make this Spellmaster hurl spells in
a fury, and after
ED GREENWOOD
what had befallen so far, that would be all the Sword of the South needed.
The Zhentarim was shaking his head. "No, it's much too far to send an eye. I'd
have to have seen the hold before with my own eyes to scry it with any of the
other magics I carry."
"You've nothing that can help us?" One of the three lancecaptains said, not
bothering to keep the contempt out of his voice. The spellmaster made a silent
show of looking him up and down and committing his face to memory, but all of
them knew any hostile move the wizard made in this gathering would result in
his death. Not a few of the personal belt daggers around the map would be
poisoned, too.
"You're a brave man, sir of the lance," Nentor Thuldoum said in silken tones,
"if a foolhardy one. A wizard of the Network always has something that can be
turned to use, and it's always more than his foes—and others," he added
pointedly, staring around at the impassive soldiers' faces, "expect. I have a
spell ready that can create a beast to explore the ruins for us ... but only I
will be able to see through its eyes."
"And if there's an enemy wizard at the Roost?" Amglar asked quietly. "Will
such a one be able to see you through it—and send any magic through you, to
strike us here?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "In fact, it's unlikely that any wizard who meets
my creature will escape alive."
"Cast your spell, then," Amglar ordered, his voice riding over a murmur of
disbelief at the wizard's words from the officers. "The sooner we know, the
sooner we can act."
"Stand back," the wizard said curtly. "All of you." He drew himself up and
glared around at the black-armored men—and their sullen faces. "Let no man
disturb my casting, on pain of death. Lord Manshoon's standing orders apply
here as in the Keep."
By the time the last of those words left his mouth,
78
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Nentor Thuldoum stood alone in the center of an open space perhaps twelve
paces across, ringed by a warily silent audience. He looked around at them and
smiled. Good; the more who saw this, the better.
From the safe pouch at his belt, Thuldoum drew a small sphere of blown glass
that held a veined, gelatinous mass trapped in its heart. He held it on his
fingertips, and for the benefit of the assembled soldiers murmured an
incantation that was far longer and more impressive than it needed to be.
Then he made a dramatic and totally unnecessary gesture, and blew the sphere
gently out of his palm. It plunged to the hard-trodden earth in front of him
and burst with a tiny singing sigh.
A drunken man's nightmare boiled up from where it had been, growing with
frightening speed, rearing up until it was larger than a horse. Men gasped and
backed away in gratifying alarm; the spellmaster smiled tightly at them and
pointed west and a little south, into the trees. His creation gathered itself
up and drifted obediently off across the road, soldiers scrambling to get out
of its way.
It was a shapeless bulk of translucent gray-white jelly that swam and flowed
constantly. Countless staring eyes and silently snapping mouths slid across
its changing outer surface, appearing and disappearing with bewildering speed.
"A mouther!" one of the veteran armsmen gasped. The drifting thing did look
like the deadly gibbering mouther of yore . . . though no gibberer had ever
risen man-high off the ground and flown about at a wizard's bidding, so far as
Thuldoum knew.
Then it was gone into the trees, and his world became a place of dark trunks
and branches and shifting shadows, looming up before him, thick and tangled. .
..
"Bring me a seat," he said, not breaking his vision from his creation, "and
something safe to drink. Someone who knows traps and castles should stand by
me,
79
ED GREENWOOD
too—we'll both have questions to ask each other when my creature reaches the
Roost."
*   *   *   *
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
Galath's Roost had been blasted apart four centuries ago by mages who knew
their business. Since that day, the small keep atop its stony height had been
swallowed by the forest. Massive duskwoods and cedars rent what was left of
its walls and yet held them up, their trunks cupping chambers that were open
to the sky and walls that ran to nowhere. Their leaves all but hid the riven
keep from view . . . but if one stood a little way off and in just the right
spot, the faint flicker of a fire glimmered through the trees.
The room whence the fire came had one wall open to the night—but the two
pilgrims who'd built the fire and now huddled around it had good and prudent
reasons for not choosing any of the better-preserved rooms in the Roost. They
were discussing that now.
"A good job, they did," the taller one said grudgingly.
"You're certain they left this room safe?" asked the other, clutching his
expensive talisman of the god under his chin. The gilded image of Tyr's
warhammer and scales shone back the firelight, serene and unchanging.
"All but that door," the first one replied, pointing. "If you go out that, a
very large crate of rubble will fall on you."
"Ah," said the other. "I'd best go water the gods' gardens out the way we came
in, then." He sipped from a battered tin cup, making no move to get up, and
added, "A good thing we found that cellar, or they'd have seen us, sure."
"That was no cellar," his tall, lean companion chuckled, scratching under his
much-patched tunic. "That was the castle cesspit."
8O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"What?" the shorter pilgrim said, staring down at his boots and then at his
elbows and his cloak—but finding no foulness. "Is my nose as bad as all that,
then?"
"After four hundred years," his companion told him kindly, "dung is just
dust."
"Huh," the shorter pilgrim agreed, and launched into a dry chuckle that ended
in a fit of coughing. "I guess the Realms're covered deep in old dung, then.
Urrrgh. Aiiuh." These last two comments accompanied a grunting attempt to
rise—an attempt that ended in a disgusted wave of one dirty hand, and a return
to a more or less comfortable lounging position against a pile of moss-cloaked
rubble.
In all the activity, neither devotee of Tyr noticed a dark, many-eyed bulk
slithering silently out of the night, over the stones in the ruined end of the
room. As they decided aloud that a prayer to the Lord of Justice might be
prudent before they wandered off into the woods to relieve themselves, the
thing of eyes and jaws crept unnoticed toward them.
" 'Tis your turn to begin the devotion," the shorter pilgrim mumbled.
"Do it be in truth, Jarald? Or've you just forgotten the words to the Call of
the Just again?"
"I've not! I remember them well!" the shorter pilgrim said heatedly. "Will you
plague me with the misdeed of one night down all the years to come?" Behind
him, unseen in the flickering confusion where the firelight played on a broken
end of stone wall, something that swam with many eyes and hungry mouths reared
up, looming darker and larger, drifting tendrils of itself across the ceiling
to hang above the two oblivious pilgrims.
"I don't rightly know," his taller companion said, with a slow grin. "How long
did you plan to go on living?"
From the darkness above came a sudden swift movement. . . .
81
War? Comes Co MisCLe6ale
The fire was dying down; he'd have to make this swift. The taller pilgrim
cleared his throat, lurched forward from a seated position to his knees, and
began. "Hear us, O Great Balance, as we hear thee! From our knees we cry to
theeeee/"
His words ended in a surprised cry as he raised his eyes to the firelit
ceiling—and found himself staring at an oozing, descending blob of jelly that
swam with jaws and eyeballs! And all of those eyeballs were staring at him!
The horrid thing lunged at him, seven or more sets of fangs biting the air
hungrily as they came. The pilgrim flung himself backward and to his feet, out
of reach, and the thwarted reaching thing turned with fearsome speed and
struck at the other pilgrim.
The shorter man was already on his feet, watching the monster with a
surprisingly calm expression of curiosity on his face. He sidestepped the
attacking tendril—and found a second questing arm reaching down, almost upon
him. He was trapped between them. As they reached in, he shrugged and
grimaced.
An instant later, the many-fanged mouths opened wide for their first savage
strike—but the pilgrims were gone. Two clouds of dark, whirling globules stood
for an instant where the men had been. And then the jaws bit down. On nothing.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
The globules crashed to the floor in a red rain that spattered the stones and
put the hissing fire out. Amid the sudden smoke of its dying, the floor ran
with small puddles that moved together with purposeful speed.
The many-fanged monster peered suspiciously around the room and came slowly
free of the ceiling to gather itself into a floating sphere of questing eyes
and gnashing teeth. It echoed the dumbfounded astonishment of the distant
Zhentarim who'd created it; he'd never seen anything of the like before. Was
this a spell? Were the two pilgrims of Tyr doppelgangers who'd learned a new
trick? Or ... something else?
The floating monster glared around the ruined chamber, but nothing moved
except the thick, dark red fluid on the floor. Two holy symbols lay amid the
moving gore, and tin cups and scabbarded swords and knives leaned where the
pilgrims had left them, but their clothes were gone. The monster bent its gaze
again on the moving liquid.
Slowly, as if with great effort, the red fluid was gathering, joining into two
ever-widening pools. The creature watched for a long time; the pools became
two rising, glistening red humps. Purposefully the fanged thing flew across
the chamber to hang above one pool, and extended a forest of mouths with
questing tongues, intending to suck up the pool.
With surprising speed, the pool leapt upward to meet it, roaring in a red
column that plunged into all the waiting mouths. The fanged creature darkened,
shuddered—and flew apart in a wet explosion of staring eyeballs and slime.
Gelatinous fragments of its riven body were flung to the far corners of the
rubble-strewn room . . . but before they could stain the walls or floor, these
wet remnants faded silently away into the air, as if they had never been.
83
ED GREENWOOD
The swordcaptains standing around Nentor Thul-doum nearly swallowed their
tongues in startled fear when the wizard let out a sudden raw scream, clawed
blindly and convulsively at them all, and then flung himself back in his seat,
clutching at his head. The wordless wet gargle in his throat rose again into a
screaming, a high keening that went on and on ... and men pulled back from the
reeling Zhentarim and drew their blades. They shivered.
"What should we do, Lord?" a swordcaptain asked, hurrying to where Swordlord
Amglar sat watching, his back against the ancient bulk of the Standing Stone.
The commander looked up expressionlessly at the anxious officer and shrugged.
"Either this passes, or it doesn't. If the latter, well put arrows through him
from well away until he falls silent, and then burn the body." Amglar reached
for the wineskin and goblet that sat on the grass beside him, and his lips
curved into a mirthless grin. "Wizards are all like that, inside," he told the
swordcaptain softly. "If their control is ever broken, all the screaming and
wide-eyed raving bursts out, for us all to see."
The man shivered. "What does that to wizards, Lord?"
Amglar shrugged. "It's but magic sweeping away restraint. Mages are just men
and maids like all the rest of us. The problem with our kindly Zhentarim is
that they all seem to forget that."
In a ruined chamber deep in the night-cloaked woods, two columns of dark,
glistening liquid grew slowly darker and more solid, shifting into manlike
shapes. One sharpened into the likeness of the shorter pilgrim while the other
was still a glistening humanoid, eyes and mouth just swimming into view on a
face of red slime.
"That body?" the unfinished one asked disgustedly.
+ 84*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Again?"
"You'd prefer this?" The shorter pilgrim flickered and slid, its clothes and
bristles melting away into ivory-skinned voluptuousness. A breathtakingly
beautiful female human caressed itself provocatively, posing with its hands in
a magnificent fall of flame-red hair.
"Where'd you see that?* the unfinished one asked.
The second Malaugrym smiled. "Well, it's a long story. ..."
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, early Flamerule 17
"Is there more moongleam?" Elminster asked hopefully, holding out his goblet.
Chin on hand, Shaerl shook her head. "Not this side of the cellars, and I'm in
no state to climb stairs now. Not after—gods, Old Mage, it's been six bottles!
Doesn't wine touch you?"
"No," Elminster told her. "I just like the taste."
Shaerl rolled her eyes. "Of course. Silly of me even to think you'd get tipsy,
or take headaches from wine, like mere mortals."
"Look ye, lass, it took me the better part of a year to get the spell
right—and after all that, Mystra laughed and changed me with a wave of her
hand! I could have saved myself hours—nay, days—of painstaking research!"
"Aye," Shaerl agreed dryly. "I can see how long and hard it would have been,
drinking every night away to see how long it took you to start reeling, and if
'twas different than the night before."
"That's not how I did it, lass!" Elminster growled at her.
Shaerl spread her hands in apology and sighed. "I'd have more sympathy, El, if
I didn't look in the mirror every morn and see myself getting older, fast. Not
all
ED GREENWOOD
that long ago I was ordering my gowns slit thigh-high to catch the eyes of
young blades at feasts, and having gowns made to match so my parents wouldn't
see until the coach was around the first bend, and I could strip them off! Now
I couldn't even get into any of those gowns ... if I still dared to dress like
that!"
"Why don't ye dare dress like that?" the Old Mage asked, trying to peer around
the edge of the table to see her ankles. "A few years and a child don't ruin
one's legs!"
"But they do add to one's belly. Never mind about me ... you know what I'm
talking about, Old Mage. You've had centuries—and may well have centuries
more. Ill be lucky to see sixty summers."
* Tis not the shining thing ye think it, this longevity," Elminster told her
gravely. "I bury friends every day, it seems... and one grows so tired of it
all. If ye didn't need me so sorely in the days ahead, twould be so easy to
just bid it all good-bye and lie down in a tomb somewhere to dream the ages
away... but ye always need me/
"I do?" Shaerl asked challengingly, but hastily added, "No offense, Old Mage."
Elminster waved a dismissive hand. "Not ye personally—thou art one of the
bright spots, lass. Cormyrean noble ladies who can think for themselves are
rarer than they should be! I meant the Realms in general, and Shadowdale in
particular. There's something here that the gods need very badly just now—and
I must guard it from them."
"Ah, with us caught in the middle, as usual," Shaerl said sarcastically.
"Wonderful."
"Ye wanted adventure when ye left the castle of thy father," Elminster
reminded her. "So ye took the oath to Azoun and joined Vangerdahast's service,
were sent to Shadowdale and promptly married the man ye were sent to spy on
... so here ye are. Too late by far to criticize the bed ye made for thyself,
dear."
"I know," Shaerl replied in exasperation. She got up, leaning on the table for
support, and then strode rest-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
lessly about the room. "It's just—"
She threw up her hands in surrender, whirled around, and ran to the old
wizard, flinging her arms around him.
"I'm just so scared, El," she said, tears standing in her eyes as she stared
into his. Her lower lip trembled. "Every time Mourn goes out that door, I
think it's the last time I'll see him alive. Zhentil Keep attacks us every
gods-be-damned spring . . . and now the entire world seems torn apart, with
gods everywhere and ores and brigands, and magic going wild! Mourn needs me to
be strong, I know, when what I want to do is run away from it all, just the
two of us, and—"
"The two of us? Ye and this old wizard? Miss, I'll remind ye that ye're
married!" Elminster said primly.
"I meant Mourngrym, you dolt," Shaerl said scornfully, voice wavering on the
edge of tears.
"I know ye did, little one," Elminster said. He folded her gently into his
arms. That brought the explosion of sobs he'd known it would. He held the lady
of Shadow-dale, murmuring comforting promises and stroking her hair until her
tears were spent.
She lifted her head from his breast at last, red eyed and wild haired, and
blinked at him tremulously, morose thanks in her eyes.
"Ah, ye're done!" Elminster said brightly. "Now, how about that wine?"
"Ooohh!" In mock rage Shaerl snatched up a cushion from the chair and belted
him with it.
"That's better," the Old Mage said gruffly, through the rain of blows. "Beat
the wits out of the only arch-mage left to defend Shadowdale, that's a smart
girl."
Shaerl let fall the cushion as if its touch suddenly burned her fingers.
"Sorry," she whispered, turning her head away.
Elminster chuckled and clapped her shoulder. "I was jesting, lass. Why don't
ye settle into a slightly more cozy position on my lap—one in which thy knee
isn't pressing
ED GREENWOOD
hard into this old bladder, mind—an' I tell ye all the wild tales about which
avatar is walking where in Faerun, and what a mess they're making of things.
When ye're thoroughly scared, Fll pass on to news of the main Zhent army,
currently being warmly entertained in Voonlar by several hobgoblin hands I
sent thence ... ah, dropped literally atop their camp, actually."
Shaerl giggled. "I wish I'd been there to see that," she said. "Has it thinned
the Zhent host appreciably?"
Elminster nodded. "Moreover, I'm not done yet. It's taken me until now to
locate my favorite hobgoblin tribe—the Nose Bones—so they'll be er, dropping
in on our Zhent friends just before dawn."
"Taken you until now?" Shaerl said in mock alarm. "Why, whatever have you been
doing?"
"Holding the Realms together, lass," Elminster told her rather grimly, "and
fighting off various old foes who've decided to take advantage of the Fall of
the Gods to conquer or destroy as much of Faerun as they can seize—the
Malaugrym, in particular, have been troublesome."
"Those Who Walk in Shadow?" Shaerl asked, eyes grave. "Storm and I have talked
about them several times, after one attacked you at the inn and you wouldn't
tell us anything. They sounded deadly, indeed."
"Ah, but I've acquired three heroes to deal with them now," Elminster said,
holding out to her a goblet that shouldn't have been full.
Shaerl stared at it suspiciously, sipped it, and then peered into it again. It
was still full—or rather, full again. She gave Elminster a look.
The Old Mage spread his hands with an air of innocence.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed. "So who are these three mighty ones?"
"Sharantyr and two Harpers; men who came to Storm for training."
Shaerl stared at him, mouth open. "The three
ALL SHADOWS FLED
rangers? Against spell-hurling shapeshifters? El, they'll be kiltedr
Elminster shrugged. "That fate could well befall us all in the days ahead. I
can't be everywhere, especially now, with bindings failing and magic twisting
awry all across Toril. My valiant three've done well enough thus far, I must
say. Even if they all perish forthwith, they've dealt the House of Malaug a
shrewd blow."
"Will you write that on their tombs?" Shaerl asked quietly.
Elminster shrugged but said nothing. After a long silence, the lady of
Shadowdale whispered, "What will you write on ours?"
The ghost of a smile stole across the Old Mage's face. "Perhaps: I should have
been laid to rest here long ago, but I'm still busy defending Shadowdale."
"Oh, no," she said quietly, shaking her head as the bedchamber door opened and
a weary Mourngrym strode in, tossing down cloak, helm, and sword. "That's what
your tomb should say."
"It already does, lass. Ask Lhaeo to show ye some time—on the morrow. It's a
good place to hide with thy heir, if the dale's overrun. Oh, in case he
forgets to tell ye—don't mind all the floating eyeballs that'll drift around
after ye. They do no harm . . . and if the food runs out, they're good
eating."
"Is he teasing you about fried eyeballs again?" Mourngrym asked as he strode
into the room. Without slowing to hear Shaerl's reply, he bent over the chair
to kiss the top of her head, and then looked up at Elminster as the soft
fingers of his wife stole up to stroke his cheek. "And what's this about
'hide'? And 'overrun'? With you here holding the dale against all invaders?"
"We must all fall sometime," Elminster replied very quietly. "That's why I've
been grooming every hero I could find these last ten years or so. Someday,
defending Shadowdale without me will be your task. Perhaps someday soon."
4-89*
ED GBEENWOOD
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 17
The spellmaster's screams broke off suddenly, and he slumped forward in his
seat. Hesitantly one of the swordcaptains took a few paces toward the wizard,
sword drawn, and then looked back to the swordlord for instructions. Other
officers with ready weapons were also gathering cautiously around the seated
wizard.
"Is he dead?" Amglar asked bluntly. The swordcap-tain turned to see, taking a
few paces closer—and then shrank back in horror as sudden radiances flashed
and spun around the body, jerking it convulsively.
Amglar's eyes narrowed. Contingencies, perhaps . . . not attacks visited from
afar, no.
His judgment was confirmed an instant later as the Zhentarim shook himself and
stood, looking around irritably at all the grim faces and raised swords. "Put
away all this steel," he snapped, "and find something useful to do—such as
getting me a hot meal. Spellhurl-ing's hungry work."
The swordcaptain Amglar had just given orders to turned back to the swordlord
and spread his hands in a silent question. Amglar waved at him to 'hold hard'
for the nonce, got up, and strode over to Thuldoum.
"How are you, mage?" he asked, putting his hand on the hilt of his sword.
"I'll live," Thuldoum said coldly, "and my wits are my own; you need not hack
me down for fear I'll turn on you all."
"The Roost's defended, then?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "It's deserted. A little overgrown and tumbledown
to be an ideal camp, but safe enough."
"Safe? Why the screaming then?"
"My creation encountered two beings who can shift shape. They were camped in
one of the rooms."
9O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Doppelgangers? If they impersonate our swordcaptains, they can play merry
death and chaos with this Sword!"
These weren't doppelgangers," Nentor Thuldoum said grimly. "One of them tried
to merge with my monster, destroying it. I was held in thrall, and saw into
its mind. It was old, very old, and it hates Elminster of Shadowdale more than
you or I do; possibly more than High Lord Manshoon does. They've been feuding
for centuries."
"And so?"
"It also hates three other humans I don't know; they looked like rangers. It
thinks all of them are in Mistle-dale right now . . . and was headed there to
feed on them, the moment it was satisfied the human shape I saw it in—a
pilgrim of Tyr—was good enough to fool them."
"You think these two shapechangers are on the way to Mistledale by now?"
"Yes," the Zhentarim said flatly. "I couldn't break free until it ate the
monster's mind, but the last thought I overheard was that it was eager to get
to its prey."
"Then we'll be just as urgent in our advance on the Roost, once you set us a
directional spell so we can get there through the woods, and not have to use
the road and the open dale."
"The moment I've eaten," the spellmaster told him coldly, "youll have that
spell. The drink, I think, is even more important right now."
Wordlessly Amglar undipped a chased metal flask from his belt and held it out.
The Zhentarim regarded it and then him suspiciously, then in sudden resolve
undid the stopper and took a sip—then a long pull.
When he could stop gasping, the spellmaster wiped at his numbed lips and
asked, "B-By all the gods, what is that stuff?"
"Firewine," Amglar told him, surprised. "You don't get out much, do you,
wizard?"
ED GREENWOOD
"Enough," Thuldoum told him darkly. "More than enough."
"Spellmaster?" A swordcaptain was hurrying up with a covered platter that
trailed wisps of steam. "Your evenfeast!"
"Ah, that's better," Thuldoum said, and turned to Amglar. "You see, Swordlord?
Properly treated, I will deal with you properly in return . . . just like any
man. You might remember that."
"Aye," the swordlord said, remembering Myarvuk's still, staring face as they
buried him. "I will keep it in mind—always."
Mistledale, Flamerule 17
The larger of the two owls fluttered down to a branch on the edge of the dale,
and grew a human mouth. "Best be wary," it said to the owl alighting beside
it. "They may have spying spells set—and a single arrow could slay us in these
shapes."
"Take on something larger, Yinthrim?"
"No," the larger Malaugrym said firmly. "That'd just invite discovery and
attack . . . and they'll have mages about. No, Atari, just take care. After we
avenge the despoiled honor of the House of Malaug, let us return here and
await the dawn. On a battlefield, amusements will be many."
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
"Yes?" Sylune inquired, turning from her lamp and mirror and raising an
imperious eyebrow. On either side of the tent door, Belkram and Itharr stared
out and raised their blades warily, waiting.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Your servant, Lady," said the voice outside. A man's voice. A familiar man's
voice.
"Yes, Torm?" Sylune asked, a trifle wearily. The two Harpers relaxed, trading
grins across the dim tent mouth. "Come to undress me? Or just to collect all
your Lingerie?"
"No," the thief said in a low voice. "May I come in?"
Sylune turned to Sharantyr, who nodded. The three Harpers were sleeping in all
but their boots, drawn swords to hand, and had already lain down. The Witch of
Shadowdale was sitting up before a mirror, looking at the body she might well
lose again on the morrow. "Yes — but leave your pranks outside the door. I'm
not in the mood."
"Your command is my wish, as I believe Elminster once said," Torm said with
just a hint of his usual imp-ishness, looking warily into the tent. Belkram
and Itharr saluted him silently with their blades; he answered them with a
sardonic lift of his brows, and stepped into the tent. He was holding
something behind his back.
Sylune turned on her stool to face him. With the candlelight behind her,
lighting her silver hair into flame, she looked unearthly as well as
beautiful. "Well, Torm?"
"I ... ah, I came to do your hair," Torm said, bringing a fistful of combs and
a tiny scent bottle into view. All four folk in the tent stared at him, and
his face grew pinker. Looking down at his hands, he said, "I seem to Have
grown used to it." He looked up at Sylune. "If you
The smile that the Witch of Shadowdale gave him then took his heart away. Torm
swallowed as she stretched forth her hands to him. "Mind? I am honored.
Please!"
As Torm stepped forward, eyes shining, Belkram said kindly, "Haul your tongue
in, there's a good boy. We've done the tent floor already, and you'll look
more sensible with it safely stowed away."
ED GHEENWOOU
Sharantyr shot her comrade a sharp look, but Torm did not even turn around.
"I know it's been said before," he said calmly, "but if you go around giving
folk a piece of your clever mind, Bel-kram, soon enough you'll have none left
for yourself."
Belkram spread his hands in apology. "Aye, it's the real Torm. Sorry for
shattering your gesture, sir. With all these shapeshifters around, one can't
be too careful."
Torm rounded on him then. " Too careful'?" he asked, incredulously. "You folk
make berserkers look like timid moles! When you discover what the word
'careful' means, come and tell me! You certainly haven't displayed any great
store of it thus far! I doubt Elmin-ster'd dare to do what you have ... let
alone this thief!"
"He's right, you know," Sharantyr said with a chuckle.
"Of course he's right," Itharr told her. "We've just been charging ahead as
fast as we could into peril after peril, hoping the gods, our foes, and
ourselves alike wouldn't notice what reckless fools we're being, and pay us
off for it! And now he's gone and spoiled it, and on the eve of battle, too!
Bad thief! Naughty, naughty bad thief!"
The tent erupted in helpless laughter. In the night outside, two Rider
sentries exchanged wondering glances, and shook their heads.
"Harpers and adventurers . . . crazed wits, if you ask me," one said
feelingly.
"No argument here," his fellow replied, watching the darkness around warily.
Something glided past—and he tensed to shout and hurl his spear—until he saw
that it was only an owl. Another owl flapped along in its wake. Now that was
something rarely seen.
The guard frowned at the two birds as the night swallowed them again. He
shrugged. As long as they weren't arrows, dragons, or flying wizards, things
in the sky were no concern of his. He yawned and peered all around again,
seeking real danger.
+ 94-*
ALL SHADOWS Fi£.0
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
"The wizard said it was deserted, and safe," the Zhentilar swordcaptain
grunted, "but we know all about wizards, don't we, lads? Swords out, watch
wary, and be ready for the worst!" He glared around at the Zhentilar soldiers
and told them, "I don't want to lose one of you because someone wasn't
looking, or was thinking about his mistress back at the Keep, or how many
coins this or that jack owed him. So take yer time, and let's do this the
right way. Torches and mage lights to the fore."
There was a creaking and rattling, and the men moved as one. Then the only
sound was the soft whisper and rustle of disturbed foliage. The first scouts
of the Sword of the South advanced up the steep, thickly forested slope toward
the ruin of Galath's Roost.
When the foremost man was an easy ten paces from the overgrown stones of a
wall, he turned and shrieked like an owl, thrice. In response, the mage lights
drifted silently forward, over the helmed heads of the soldiers, into the dark
and hollow places of stone ahead.
Nothing moved. There was no sound that could not be put down to small things
that flap or scuttle in a forest by night. Cautiously the Zhentilar moved
forward, swords out, probing the ferns and brambles ahead for spring bows,
trip cords, and pits. They found nothing.
From here and there along the edges of the ruin, double owl hoots rang out as
scout after scout signalled his safe entry into the keep. Files of men bearing
torches began to work their way through the trees in answer to the calls.
A scout halted in a dark chamber, hearing the stony scrape of something moving
to his right, through an archway thick with vines and mottled moss. "Be that
you, Baeremuth?" The whisper was cautious, and the
ED GREENWOOD
reply was quick and low.
"Aye. Fflarast?"
"Me," Fflarast confirmed, turning his loaded hand crossbow aside to prevent
any accidents. "Anything of interest?"
"Lots of rubble, and something's nest . . . vole bones an' the like. I think
this place really is deserted."
"Good. Crazed orders, hacking through the woods in the dark just to camp in a
ruin, but . . ."
"Better'n trying to fight our way into Mistledale down that bow-shot throat,
if we'd taken the road. They must have at least a dozen archers — an' a
dozen's all they'd need, Fflar, to take down four hundred or more of us, for
sure. This way, we can strike out of the woods all along the south side of the
dale. Those farmers'll run themselves crazed trying to be everywhere at once
to stop us."
"You plot like a swordlord," Fflarast muttered. "We'd better get on, or
Dellyn'll be running his blade up our backsides and bellowing at us for being
a pair of craven laggards or spies for the enemy."
"Huh. He sees spies under every stone, that one," Baeremuth replied, and
suited actions to words by turning over a rock that was suspiciously damp
among dry, dusty ones.
There was a sudden rush of rubble and a crash that shook the room. Fflarast
cursed and staggered back, trying to keep his feet, but ended up sitting down
hard on rubble. When he'd scrambled up and could see again through the rising
dust, his mouth went suddenly dry.
Baeremuth Asanter lay under a fallen block of stone nearly as large as a pack
mule. Thin rivers of blood were running out from beneath it — and Fflar could
just see the tips of the fingers of one hand, reaching vainly for aid. It
would reach forever now.
Death GROOJS Impatient
Fflarast Blackriver peered again at his comrade's remains and then backed away
very carefully. The rock-fall hadn't been accidental.
Someone had gone to a lot of trouble with wooden wedges and spars and balanced
stones—and even flung dust around afterward to hide their work. The wedges
were the bright hue of newly cut wood; this had been done within the last day
or so.
"Oh, Bane preserve us," Fflarast whispered, backing out of the chamber. At
that moment, a heavy booming off to the right marked the discovery of another
trap. It was followed by a faint, raw screaming that went on for a long time
before ending suddenly in a gurgle. Fflarast knew those sounds. Someone had
put a half-crushed man out of his agony with a quick sword thrust to the
throat.
"Ye gods and small creeping things hear my plea," the Zhentilar warrior
whispered, invoking the old, old prayer of desperate warriors. He wasn't
facing half a hundred ores alone on a crag, like the legendary Bor-thin had
been when he roared out the invocation, but dead is dead, and Fflarast
Blackriver had only one life to lose. Moreover, he valued it just as much as
Borthin had his own.
There came another rushing of stone off to the left,
ED GREENWOOD
and startled cursing. Ah—one trap had missed. Good; that meant they were
probably all clever feats, and not magic. Maybe—-just maybe—Fflar would see
the end of this day.
There came a ringing of steel from behind him. "What's ahead, scout?" a
self-important swordcaptain snapped. Pelaeron himself, scourge of lazy
soldiers. Oh, joy.
"Traps, sir," Fflarast said, indicating the fallen block and Baeremuth's arm.
"I'm deciding how best to safely proceed."
"Well, hurry up about it," the officer snapped, prodding Fflar's mail-covered
backside with his sword tip. "We haven't got all night, you know." A file of
warriors was crowding into the room behind the swordcaptain. Fflarast looked
at them—and at Pelaeron's steely eye— and then swallowed, shrugged, and
carefully climbed over the rubble to the left of Baeremuth, on into the
darkness.
Darkness where there should have been light. The torch had been with
Baeremuth, and no mage lights were near. "Torch," Fflarast rapped out, keeping
his voice as laconic as possible, and reached back.
The swordcaptain curtly waved an armsman with a blazing torch forward. The man
reached to hand the torch to Fflarast, shuffled amid loose stones, tripped,
and measured his length on the rubble. Stones shifted—and Fflar flung himself
backward into unknown darkness as hard and fast as he could.
An instant later, armsman, torch, Pelaeron, and all vanished in a roaring and
tumbling of stone as two carefully balanced blocks collapsed sideways, and the
floor of the chamber above came down.
Fflarast landed hard on his tailbone on rough-edged rocks and lay there
groaning. The chamber he'd come through was now a new-sealed tomb in front of
him. He was lying in a cross passage—and listening to fresh crashings off to
the left as heavy stones dropped and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
rolled. Tortured metal shrieked briefly as it crumpled, a man screamed for an
instant, and then there were only echoes. Echoes that faded slowly into
silence.
Fflar shuddered. He snarled wordlessly. Gods take all wizards! Save my bruised
behind! Grunting, he rolled slowly and carefully to the left, to his knees,
and felt for his sword.
There was another rolling crash in the distance, and shouts. Fflarast found
his sword and clutched it, not moving as he fought down fear. He was alone in
chill darkness with death waiting all around him. For the greater glory of
Zhentil Keep, whose proud lords would not even know that Fflarast Blackriver
had died in the service. Or care one whit, if someone told them.
"Hungry beasts take them all," Fflar told the darkness softly, and stayed on
his knees, wondering how long it would be until dawn . . . and if he'd dare
try to find his way out of the ruin even then.
Far down the passage, many torches glimmered and danced, and a voice said,
"There—that's armor!"
"I serve Zhentil Keep!" Fflar shouted desperately, flinging up his arms in
case someone was very eager to fire his crossbow. No quarrels answered. The
voice came again. "Who are you, soldier?"
"Fflarast Blackriver, of Pelaeron's Mace." He cleared his throat and added,
"I'm alone. Pelaeron and most of his swords lie under stone beside me. We've
struck two traps already."
"It seems a contagious habit," the voice responded dryly. "Stay where you are.
I'm going to throw you a torch."
A moment later, fire whup-whup-whupped end over end through the darkness,
trailing sparks, and fell amid rubble, showing Fflar a row of archways on one
side of the passage, and doors or fallen walls on the side he'd come in by. A
boot—still twitching feebly—could be seen in the fall of rubble beside him.
Fflarast swallowed and turned his back on it, looking through the nearest
ED GREENWOOD
arch.
"What can you see, soldier?" the voice asked.
"A huge chamber—probably a great hall," Fflarast answered. "It has balconies
around its inside walls, and the roof's gone somewhere. There's moonlight at
one end."
"Off to your left—my right?"
"Aye," Fflarast called. "It looks open—big empty stretches."
Voices murmured down the corridor. The officer called, "Can you get to the
torch?"
Fflarast struggled over rubble for a few sweating moments, half-expecting the
ceiling to fall on him, but reached the guttering torch safely. "I have it,"
he called, and swung it nigh.
"Good. We're going to throw you another. Pitch it out into this large hall of
yours and tell us what you see."
Fflarast did so. The chamber rivalled the main hall of the Black Altar back in
Zhentil Keep. He'd stood honor guard in that dark temple more than once, and
knew this hall was fully as large. He told them so.
"Can you say anything of interest?"
"No . . . broken tiles . . . heaved and stained flooring, but open. The
torchlight doesn't show it all. Nothing moving or alive that I can see."
"Good man. Stay where you are. We're coming to join you."
Fflarast sighed heavily and stood as still as he could, watching the slow and
cautious advance of a long file of black-armored men.
It seemed half the Sword of the South was in the passage. Someone had cut a
long, bent sapling and lashed a torch to it, and was lighting the high ceiling
as they came, finding holes and old rockfalls. There were also two shafts that
presumably let light and air down into the keep, but as the soldiers of
Zhentil Keep cautiously passed beneath them, nothing swooped down or fell from
above. Soon the Zhentilar reached Fflarast, and a
ALL SHADOWS FLED
swordcaptain—another officious one—curtly ordered him to stand aside.
A torch was tossed on down the passage. Its flickering light revealed that the
corridor was blocked completely not far beyond where Fflarast had entered it.
An entire room seemed to have fallen from the floor above, pouring a high
mound of broken stone across the passage from wall to wall, and almost to the
ceiling. Fflar looked at it and shuddered.
"This great hall it is, then," the swordcaptain ordered, turning away. The man
at his elbow—the swordcaptain who'd thrown the torch to Fflarast—peered into
the vast chamber and murmured, "I have a bad feeling about this room."
"I think we all do!" the other officer snarled, fear lacing his blustering
voice. "So let's just get on with it! Men—out swords and advance, the first
dozen of you! Stop and report if you see anything of import—especially moving
bones! I want to get that mage in here fast.. . and then maybe we'll all get
some sleep!"
Men moved reluctantly into the chamber. Fflarast stood silent, glad he wasn't
among them, expecting to hear another heavy crash at any moment.
Minutes passed, and the men standing still and tense in the passage could hear
each other breathing, hoarse and fast. But no cries or falls of stone came,
and soon a man whose armor bore the red shoulder emblem of a sword came back
to the archway and reported crisply, "No danger, sir. Molds and rubbish down
one end, where a lot of water's come in, but there's nothing else in the place
except two stairs up to the floor above and a high seat—of bare stone, nothing
in it—on a raised bit at the far end. The place is huge; there's room for a
good two thousand blades to bunk down, though I'd not want to be close in
under some of the balconies; they look none too safe."
"Well done, sword. Set men to guard all doors and archways into the place;
we'll move in. Swordcaptain
1O1
ED GREENWOOD
Aezel, go out and tell the swordlord. Request that the spellmaster be brought
in, forthwith—and if the wizard objects, request it again."
There were a few dry chuckles in the safe anonymity of the gloom, and then men
were on the move. Fflarast Blackriver came to a sudden decision. He handed his
torch to a passing armsman and took up the straight, back-to-the-wall stance
of a man on guard duty. He wasn't going into that great hall unless directly
ordered to.
Thankfully, the officious swordcaptain passed on into the great hall, and the
bulk of the soldiery followed, leaving a few wary veterans standing in the
passage with Fflarast. "Neatly done, lad," one of them hissed, and grinned.
Fflarast gave him a grin back, and they waited in the darkness together until
a bright blaze of torches and the shuffling of many booted feet told them the
main body of the Sword had arrived.
Men in black armor seemed to file past forever, until at last the black battle
robes of the spellmaster could be seen sweeping majestically down the passage.
He was escorted by two swordcaptains and the swordlord himself. "
The supreme commander of the Sword of the South halted close enough to
Fflarast to touch him, and said to the wizard, "The men want you to look
around and set them at their ease that there's no magic or hidden, lurking
things about. Do that, but we haven't time for you to send them haring down
every passage in the place in hopes of finding magic treasure that was likely
taken away long ago. I'll be outside, supervising the perimeter watch; send
Swordcaptain Tschender here out to me if you want anything."
The spellmaster nodded impatiently, seeming eager to get into the room, and
the swordlord stepped back, rolled his eyes behind the wizard's back, and
strode off back down the corridor, leaving behind at least six veterans
struggling not to chuckle as the Zhentarim stepped grandly through the nearest
arch.
By unspoken, common accord the men in the passage
ALL SHADOWS
all moved to stand where they could look through archways, and watch what
befell in the great hall. Wizards of the Black Network were not loved—but they
were always a source of entertainment, if one could keep safely out of the
way.
Spellmaster Thuldoum strode grandly across the vast chamber, head high,
looking slowly from left to right and back again. When he caught sight of the
throne, he bent forward in eagerness, and his pace quickened.
"Gods spit down on 'im," one of the soldiers muttered. "He's going to sit on
the throne!"
For a moment it appeared that the wizard was going to do just that—but
prudence came to him at the last moment, and they saw him ordering a reluctant
armsman into the seat instead.
Gingerly the soldier sat down—and from the ceiling above, a ring of boulders
on chains crashed down, smashing the vainly leaping man to bloody ruin on the
stones. One stone, rebounding from the impact on its chain, nearly beheaded
the startled wizard, who staggered backward, arms flailing, as armsmen watched
in horror. The soldier who'd been a shade too slow in vacating the throne lay
where he had fallen, a broken figure in a pool of blood.
"What did I tell ye?" a soldier said, who hadn't in fact spoken before, all
that long night. "Stupid buttocks-brain."
It seemed the wizard wasn't done. He'd caught sight of something behind or
beyond the throne that only he could see, and was casting a spell. With all
eyes upon him, he made a show of it, gesturing dramatically as he brought the
invocation to a ringing climax—and a door slowly appeared in the blank wall
behind the high seat. Magical radiance shone blue and silver, brightening to a
soft white glow, and spread slowly along an arched frame to outline a large
door.
As Zhentilar stared at it and Spellmaster Thuldoum
103
ED GREENWOOD
grinned in triumph, Fflarast felt the tense prickling of hairs rising on the
back of his neck. Oh, no ...
The Zhentarim brought his hands down with a flourish, pointing at the door,
and shouted the last word of the spell that would open it.
The door winked out. Blue-white flashes ran all over the ceiling of the
chamber as a web of magic discharged, and Galath's Roost fell in on itself
with a roar.
Fflarast saw the ceiling begin to fall and the wizard stare up and then
vanish. He did not wait to see a thousand of his fellow warriors crushed, but
turned and flung himself headlong down the passage, running as he had never
run before.
There was an earth-splitting crash of stone upon stone, and Fflar was flung
off his feet. He landed rolling amid dust and falling stones as the castle
shook around him. The entire armor gallery had fallen into the great hall.
"Gods!" one of the old soldiers in the passage gasped. The floor, too!" And
with a slow, gathering thunder, the overloaded floor gave way, dropping in
huge pieces down into dark cellars beneath.
By then, Fflar was sprinting toward the moonlight, sweat almost blinding him.
A last leap over rubble— and he was out, tumbling in the ferns and coming up
running, to get well away from the walls.
"Easy, soldier," said a swordcaptain, putting out a hand to stop Fflarast's
frantic flight. "What befell?"
Fflar clung to the man, panting, unable to catch his breath—and from the
ruined keep behind him came a slow series of smaller crashes.
They listened together, and then the officer shook Fflar by the shoulders.
"Well?"
An old soldier came into view out of the same rent in the wall Fflar had used.
It was one of the veterans who'd stayed in the passage. He was walking slowly
and stiffly, ignoring the occasional falls of small stones from above, and the
officer strode toward him with a
+ 1O4-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
snarl, dragging Fflar along.
"What befell?" he snapped, eyeing the old man's gray whiskers.
The old warrior looked up at him and said, "Don't bluster, lad . . . ye're an
officer, remember?"
The swordcaptain roared out his anger and snatched at his sword—and Fflar hit
him in the side of his neck with one mailed fist, as hard as he'd ever hit
anyone in his life. He got in two more good blows before the body reached the
ground—and stayed there.
"Easy,*lad . . . ye've broken his neck, there's no need to dance on his
bones," the veteran muttered, bending over Fflar. "Now ye'd best get away from
him and practice looking innocent, afore the next officer happens along."
"Too late," a deep, grave voice said above them both. Fflar and the veteran
looked up into the cold, tired eyes of Swordlord Amglar. "But by the sounds of
things, I've just lost too many blades to waste two more because cruel,
spoiled nobles' sons make bad officers. Consider this—accident—forgotten, and
so long as you have no more, scout, I'll continue to forget it. Now tell me in
truth what's befallen in there,"
Fflarast and the veteran looked at each other, and then Fflar spoke. "The
spellmaster cast a spell to open a door behind the throne, and—I think—set off
some sort of magical trap. The whole ceiling came down at once . . . but I
think I saw him vanish before the stones hit. I ran, then . . . that's all I
saw. Before that, though, my unit—Pelaeron's Mace—and a lot of others I heard
die, but didn't see, were crushed in rockfall traps . . . the keep's bulging
with them."
The swordlord nodded soberly. "The spellmaster's magic brought him safely out
to us here," he said, his lips twisting bitterly, "and dearly though I'd love
to put him to death for this blunder, we need him in the battle tomorrow." He
leaned in close to them, and his next words came in a whisper.
ED GREENWOOD
"Don't raise a hand to him this night, whatever the provocation . . . but if
either of you survives the coming battle, and he's still breathing at the end
of it, I want either or both of you to slay him. He may have contingencies,
mind—try to dismember the body and then burn it." He looked from Fflar to the
veteran, and then back to Fflar. "Understood?"
"I understand and will obey," the old soldier whispered, and Fflar echoed his
words. The swordlord nodded. "Good." He looked at the veteran. "So the ceiling
fell. . . what did you see after that?"
"The floor an' all went down into—cellars, I'd guess— below, breaking off and
sliding slowly; in bits, ye know. Then the balconies broke off and fell in on
top of it all, one by one. I saw spell flashes before each fall . . . the
whole thing's one huge trap, sir, if ye ask me. I'd sooner sleep in the hot
heart of an enemy campfire tonight than go back in there, sir." He jerked his
head to indicate the ruined castle behind him.
The swordlord nodded grimly. "We've been duped by a clever foe—and an
arrogant, careless wizard." He sighed and added, "Gods curse all wizards. If
things in Faerun were all decided by the strength of a sword arm and not
sneaking spells, we'd all be a lot better off!"
Rising with another sigh, their commander pointed toward a campfire. "Go and
report to Shieldmaster Tesker; you're part of my own mace now, both of you."
He turned away, and as they stammered their thanks, he turned back and added,
"Oh, and tell him from me that you're both swords now. If we've any armor so
blazoned that fits, you're to wear it tomorrow."
"May the gods thank you more than we can, sir!" the old veteran gasped.
Amglar smiled thinly. Tou'll probably be cursing me on the morrow. Save your
delight for when all of this is over, and we're standing proudly on the
battlements of Zhentil Keep again. Then I'll thank the gods too . . . just how
fervently I do it then, mind you, will depend on
+ 1CX5-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
what they've done to us since."
All three of them laughed together, the grim laughter of fighting men who
shared the same peril—and the same jaundiced view of the world that had put
them there. Then they clasped forearms and parted.
On his way to the fires, Fflar stopped for a moment as he realized something
the other two had already known—most soldiers keep warm with the memories of
such moments.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
Sylune of Shadowdale lay awake in the darkness, as she did every night. When
one no longer needs to sleep and one's friends are in danger, there is no
better way to guard them than to lie among them, feigning slumber, with a
watch spell set.
Through its invisible web she felt Itharr stir, plagued by dark thoughts,
building his killing rage for the battle tomorrow. Later, Sylun6 sent soothing
visions to Belkram when a dream made him start in terror and almost awaken.
Sharantyr needed no such kindnesses; she lay in peace, her dreams deep.
They were fine battle companions and good friends, Sylun6 smiled up at the
dark roof of the tent overhead. She closed her eyes again and turned her
thoughts to the many folk and places and things she must check on and watch
over during this Time of Troubles, if the Realms she loved were to survive,
and not some shattered, twisted remnant of Toril. At least the hours when
others slept gave her time enough for reflection, to consider and anticipate
all the consequences and probable unintended effects of her every action. It
could truly be said of the Chosen that, more than any other thinking creatures
of Faerun, they knew exactly what they were doing at all times.
+ 1O7*
ED GREENWOOD
Right now, Sylune was thinking over the battle tomorrow . . . the battle that
would probably cost her this body. Jhessail and Rathan both carried fragments
of stone from her hut should anything befall the one within her now,
and—something was amiss!
A scrying spell swept over the tent, seeing who lay within. Its primary
dweomer paused above each sleeping face as Sylune pretended to slumber, but it
did not seem to sense the spell web, and withdrew without any disturbance.
Yet, that is. Now someone, probably a Zhentarim mage, knew who was in this
tent. While most folk still believed that the Witch of Shadowdale was long
dead, only a Malaugrym had any reason to view these four sleepers as greater
foes than the mightier Knights of Myth Drannor sleeping in other tents.
Sylune let out her breath in a long gasp and rose from her physical body as a
ghostly, shadowy image, questing out into the camp around for any signs of
fell magic. She could feel the frozen fire of magic items lying immobile in
the tent Jhessail and Merith shared with Illistyl and a lady Rider, and a few
faint dweomers from enspelled glow daggers riding on the hips of watchful
sentries around the edge of the camp . . . but as long moments passed, no
hostile spells came out of the night. Far away to the northeast, near ruined
Myth Drannor, a wolf howled, but nothing nearby answered.
Yet a single fireball could do a lot of damage to a force this small. Perhaps
she should raise a spell shield. Sylune glanced out of the tent into the still
moonlight. To do so over the entire camp would be a punishing drain on the
little life essence she had left; she really needed a living being to power
such a magic—and to do it for long would leave the creature weak and
quivering. Not a sword arm could be spared from the battle, though, so ...
Something was disturbing the spell web! Sylune whirled back to face into the
tent in time to see two dark, serpentine bodies rise up through the floor,
mak-
1O8
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ing the softest of tearing sounds. Their heads, which had parted the canvas so
swiftly, were deadly steel blades atop undulating, scaled coils, but they rose
up in the darkness, growing swiftly larger.
Malaugrym!
The Witch of Shadowdale sent a shrieking warning through the spell web to
awaken her companions as she hurled her ghostly form back across the tent. She
had to reach her body! Very few of her spells were available to her in this
ghostly form, when she could hold nothing solid.
One serpent-blade was arching over her own body, and the other was rearing
above Sharantyr, whence it could plunge itself down into her sleeping breast,
Sylune cast a curving shield of force over the lady ranger as she swept past.
Just in time! The blade came down at Sharantyr's face and was struck aside by
the invisible barrier, trailing a line of white sparks.
The other serpent-thing struck at Sylune"'s body before she could slip into
it, throwing its coils around her throat and wrists. The rest of its body
extended toward Belkram, blade rearing back to strike.
She'd warned all three rangers to keep silence and find their blades as they
awakened, and as the serpent-thing stretched over toward him, Belkram came
boiling up out of his furs, hacking at the thing savagely.
Its hammer strike burst through his frantic parry and almost pinned to him to
the tent floor, laying open his shoulder as he twisted desperately aside. He
roared in pain. Sharantyr tried to scramble to his aid, and found herself a
prisoner under the shield, but Itharr came leaping across the tent with his
blade gleaming, bellowing, "Aid! An attack! Knights of Myth Drannor, to us!"
Sylune slid into her body, heedless of the strangling coil about her throat.
She did not need to breathe, and so could take no harm from the crushing
constriction of
ED GREENWOOD
the Malaugrym—whose constraint prevented her from hurling spells. She gathered
her will as ironlike coils tightened about her, and hauled her shield of force
away from Sharantyr. She angled it up to wall herself away from the rest of
the tent and shoved the Malaugrym's blade away from Belkram in the process.
The shapeshifter simply extended its body farther to strike at the Harper once
more, but Itharr slashed it aside—and with her companions safe behind the
shield, Sylune unleashed a spell that made steel shards burst from her body.
The Malaugrym took them all, convulsing in agony and flailing about the tent,
sweeping her body off its bed and hurling Itharr to sprawl atop Sharantyr and
the other serpentine Shadowmaster. Belkram sprang upon it and drove his blade
home, but it writhed under him, not mortally harmed by his steel, and tried to
shake him off. He sat on it, stabbing it repeatedly, so it grew fangs and bit
his thigh.
Sharantyr and Itharr rolled around among the furs with the other Malaugrym,
hacking and stabbing at it in a frenzy—and then the tent flap burst open and
the Knights of Myth Drannor charged in.
Florin had doffed his armor for the night and wore only breeches, but his
stout sword was in his hand. He dived without pause onto the serpent-thing on
the beds, hacking at its blade-head with a flurry of blows, trying to sever
the serpent's dark steel. Torm took one look at Sylune, who struggled upright
with coils thick around her throat, and howled in fury, leaping across the
tent with his dagger flashing.
Sylune kicked out one foot, trying to touch him, and Rathan saw what she was
doing. He pushed past the thief and grasped Sylune's ankle firmly. What she
said to him mind-to-mind he shouted aloud: "Malaugrym! Use silver on them to
slay! They're shapeshifters! Use silver!"
At the door of the tent, Jhessail and Illistyl both nod-
110
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ded grimly. As Merith dived past them and buried his silver-bladed dagger in
the Malaugrym that was battering Belkram all around the tent, they ran to
where Itharr and Sharantyr were stabbing the other, and murmured spells as
they slapped their hands at the blades, heedless of sharp, flashing edges.
The weapons glowed blue-white as Jhessail snatched her hand back, shaking
drops of blood from it- When the glow faded, they shone silver . . . and the
wounds they made did not close. Sharantyr and Itharr set to work chopping with
frenzied speed, gasping their thanks.
Florin severed the blade-head of the other Malaugrym with a last blow and
grabbed at the gory serpent-form, trying to hurl it away from a groaning
Belkram. It grew many fanged mouths as he pounced on it, and one of them shot
forth on a long stalk to snap at Torm, who ducked his head aside. Rathan
raised his hand to cast a spell—and the jaws expanded with lightning speed to
envelop it, biting down with cruel force.
The fat cleric doggedly intoned his spell, sweat running down his face—and
fire from his hand burst forth within the Malaugrym, causing it to recoil with
a roar of mingled fury and pain.
Illistyl's eyes narrowed as flames gouted from the beast. She dug a hand into
her purse, snatched a silver coin, and snapped out a cantrip that crumbled the
metal to powder in her hands. Flinging the powdered silver into the flames,
she leapt back.
The explosion that followed was spectacular. The coils around Sylune1 spasmed,
flinging her free—and then smashed into her body with the force of a charging
war horse, hurling her like a rag doll against the side of the tent. She
struck, tumbled, and came to rest atop Torm, who madly stabbed the Malaugrym
and sobbed with rage.
"It's dead, Torm," Sylune told him gently, putting a hand on his shoulder as
she looked over him at the gory
111
En GREENWOOD
lumps that had been the other Malaugrym. "And so's the other one."
"Gods," the thief hissed, eyes blazing, "they could have killed you!"
"Yes," Sylune agreed, "but they did not, thanks in part to you." She put up
her hand to wipe the sweat from his brow, then leaned forward and kissed him.
He stared at her for a moment, and threw his arms around her, weeping
uncontrollably.
"It's been rather a long time since any man got this angry for my sake," she
murmured into his shoulder, "but try not to get yourself killed defending me,
Torm!"
"Why not?" the thief said when he found enough control to speak. "Have you
seen what they did to your hair?"
112
8
The Ring of Skulls
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
Sharantyr shades her eyes again and is sure of it. Another flash, there . . .
and another. And then Zhents are pouring out of the woods in a hundred places,
the bright morning sun glinting on ebon armor.
There is a stir along the banks of Swords Creek, and the short bark of Kuthe's
order off to the right. The Riders of Mistledale move amid a growing thunder
of hooves, hurrying along the southern edge of the dale to meet the invaders.
Lance tips glitter as they sweep down.
Restless, the lady ranger hefts her own gleaming blade, licks her lips, and
watches Kuthe's lance lowered with menacing force. He flicks it expertly,
taking out the throat of a Zhentilar as he passes, and with bright blood still
trailing from the tip, buries it deep in the face of the first Zhent horseman
to appear out of the woods.
The man crumples as he's flung back out of his saddle. A score of crashes
follow up and down the edge of the trees as Zhent maces and spears find
shields or the Riders behind them and a horn sounds from just behind Shar,
calling the retreat.
Horses wheel and rear. Zhentilar soldiers race in to
ED GREENWOOD
gut the retreating warriors as they turn away. One Rider tarries too long, and
Shar sees him go down, hacking frantically with his blade at a dozen foes as
they drag him to ground and stab him. The riderless mount in fear lashes out
with its hooves, leaps wildly into the air, shedding broken Zhent armsmen like
rag dolls, and lands running west down the dale to where Kuthe is rallying the
Riders.
Arrows hiss past Shar's shoulder as the farmers of Mistledale, faces set in
fear and determination, strike their own first blows against the foe. Only a
few black-armored figures fall, and now they're streaming out of the trees by
the hundreds, a glittering black carpet of death that advances west with
casual confidence. More than one of the watchers along Swords Creek gasps or
retches in fear; there are thousands of Zhents!
"Gods," a man nearby mutters in despair and disbelief, "have they been
breeding armsmen like rabbits? Look at them!"
Certain death was coming for them, and they all knew it. Shar traded tight
grins with Belkram and Itharr as they heard Term's voice lifted in jaunty
song:
"Come, oh, come play with me! Bring, oh, bring your sword, and We'll be threer
The Riders had succeeded in keeping the foe east of the creek. Secure in their
numbers, none of the Zhen-tilar had moved to outflank the paltry line of
waiting warriors . . . yet. Nor were they bothering with any sort of tight
formation, merely gathering in mobs around a dozen steadily advancing
standards.
Shar's lip curled in derision, and then she shrugged. Outnumbering us hundreds
to one, what do they need
+.114-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
of discipline or battlecraft?
The Sword of the South came on without pause or parley. Shar looked again at
the Riders, wondering if they'd mount another charge to disrupt the steady
Zhent advance. Kuthe's helm turned; the white-horse blazon caught the sun as
he looked back at her. And then his helm jerked sharply back east again.
There was a murmur from the defenders of Mistledale as they all saw what Kuthe
had espied the casting of, from his high saddle: eight tiny balls of fire spun
up into view and roared across Swords Creek, howling through the air and
growing in size and fury as they came.
The line of defenders raised their shields and shifted uneasily as the roaring
conflagration spun nearer—but then the spinning flames and sparks rippled,
pulsed .. . and were gone. Swarms of birds and smoke spread harmlessly across
the sky. The unseen wild magic shields in front of the defenders had worked.
A shout of satisfaction arose from the defenders—but it was answered by a
ragged cry of excitement, rising from the Zhent ranks. A trumpet blared, and
the Sword of the South charged forward. They lowered their spears and trotted
into the creek, a sea of soldiers flanked by two bands of mounted armsmen. The
horsemen to the north splashed slowly down through the creek, avoiding the
road—no doubt fearing traps. Their comrades to the south spurred across the
creek in a spray of waters, and gathered speed as they hurtled up the west
bank toward the Riders.
Shar looked from one forest of black helms to the other . . . and back again.
Was it going to be all over in the first few breaths? There aren't enough of
us to stand for more than one charge . . . and that only with luck.
The screams began. The Zhent horsemen to the right were raising frantic
shields or toppling from their saddles as a storm of blades twinkled and
flashed around
ED GREENWOOD
them at faces and throats.
"First blow to Chauntea," Itharr murmured, watching them plunge on into
oblivion. None of the Zhentilar horsemen reached the leveled lances of the
waiting Riders, and few managed to pull out of that storm of steel to flee.
Lighting cracked and flashed low over the Zhent ranks, stabbing at the
defenders of Mistledale . . . but became a stream of red rose petals, and
drifted away on the quickening breeze. There were chuckles up and down the
line of defenders. The sweat of quickening fear was making Shar's blade
sticky; she shifted her grip on it and snatched a last glance to the north
before the first Zhents reached her.
The northern Zhent cavalry had crossed the creek and were lowering their
lances to meet a single line of Riders that had come out of nowhere to bar
their path. With an exultant roar they swept down through the phantom forms of
the waiting Riders . . . and plunged into the spike-lined disemboweling pits.
At about the same time, the arrows of the best archers of Mistledale found
them.
A spear cast out of the Zhent lines clipped the edge of Sharantyr's shield,
and she found herself in the midst of what all battles become: a crowded,
confused whirlwind of hard-plied steel crashing down on shields and armor,
skirling off opposing blades—and sinking into screaming men.
A Zhentilar armsman swung a huge morningstar at her. Shar threw herself to her
knees. As the weapon rattled past overhead, she struck upward with her shield,
hurling her foe off-balance. She swept her sword up into the throat of the
next charging armsman, who staggered on, dead already, and ran his blade into
the armpit of the man with the morningstar. They crashed down together, and
Shar shook their blood out of her eyes and took a hasty step aside to put her
blade into the neck of a tall armsman who'd engaged Belkram,
ALL SHADOWS FLED
and was straining to overwhelm the snarling Harper. The man reeled and went
down, spraying her with more blood. Belkram gave her a fierce grin of thanks
as they faced the next Zhents shoulder to shoulder.
Arrows were still hissing past; there were so many Zhents that the dale
farmers could fire over the heads of those in the fray and yet find targets in
plenty. A horn rang out, calling the defenders of the dale to retreat to the
second line of standards.
In answer to its call, Shar smashed her way free of a tightening knot of
Zhentilar and backed hastily from the creek. One of the orange standards that
marked a gap in the wild magic shields fluttered off to her left, and she saw
Jhessail and Illistyl crouching by it, behind Merith's raised sword and
shield. Their hands wove in spellcasting gestures.
Shar slashed an overly enthusiastic Zhent across the face, and as he went
down, watched the spell of her fellow Knights take effect.
Upended helms full of metal shards and salvaged arrowheads were rising from
the ground with slow, menacing force—one, three . . . six in all. Zhents were
backing uncertainly away from them, but one man hacked at a helm with his
blade.
He was the first to fall, ripped apart as the magic erupted, transforming the
helms and their contents into pinwheel sprays of arrows that tore into the
Zhent host on all sides.
Zhentilar blackhelms screamed in chorus and fell in great swathes, as if
harvested by a gigantic, invisible scythe. Shar felt her gorge rise. She
turned away from the sight and hastened back to the rallying standards,
Belkram and Itharr at her side. There were still thousands of Zhents left; the
Sword of the South was surging on across the creek, heedless of the cost. As
the defenders gathered at the standards another horn call rang out from their
midst.
This one was meant for the hidden Harpers. Trip
+ 117-*
ED GREENWOOD
wires hidden among the trampled grass were tightened now, and. ..
As it happened, Shar watched the first shield rise, spilling a startled Zhent
forward—and revealing a Harper with a loaded crossbow. He discharged his
quarrel into the face of the nearest Zhent officer, dropped the bow, and
snatched up his spear to ward away a charging annsman. That gave the other two
Harpers in the hole time to scramble out, gain their feet, and begin their
race through the Zhent rear, hacking and slashing at the full run.
Men and women in leather boiled up out of the ground in two dozen places or
more, and there was much shouting and chaos. Shar had a brief glimpse of a
furious-looking man in robes—a Zhent wizard, she realized—stumbling hastily
away from a seeking blade. Then she was much too busy to look at anything but
the foes all around, their blades falling on her own with the force of
hammers.
The Sword of the South rolled into the defenders again, a wall of grim men
wielding blades and maces. They pushed the outnumbered dalefolk slowly back to
higher ground. Another horn cried out from just behind her, and Shar flung
herself flat.
An instant later, arrows hissed over her in a deadly stream, and the front
rank of Zhents melted away, hurled to the ground like torn thorn bushes. A
brief blip of the horn indicated it was safe to rise.
Sharantyr found her feet and stared across blood-soaked ground at the Zhents .
. . over the frightened faces of the Zhentilar rearguard, back across the
creek. There, Harper swords flashed, message runners fell, and Zhent officers
shouted and flailed in disarray. A rolling ball of flame told her at least one
Harper spell had worked—a lone Harper paused, tossed sweat-soaked hair out of
his eyes, and lashed half a dozen pursuers with a bright net of fire.
The Harpers were pitifully few. Most of those fighting
Aix SHADOWS FLED
south to a rallying point were going down, attacked from all sides by enraged
and fearful Zhents. Shar saw one armsman catch his foot on the edge of an open
Harper hole and fall helplessly away from the ranger he was attacking. The man
leapt across the hole, breaking free of a ring of Zhents, and raced toward a
banner that had been set alight as a rallying point.
Not far behind Shar, Margrueth muttered an incantation. A flying Zhent spear
headed past her, and she dived sideways to smash it down with her shield, for
fear it would reach the sorceress.
It skidded into the dirt, and an instant later came Margrueth's short bark of
satisfaction. A wall of twinkling swords blinked into solidity in the air
around the surviving Harpers, chopping down pursuing Zhents. Men jerked and
fell in that deadly whirlwind.
A black-robed Zhentarim wizard strode toward the wall of swords, careful to
keep in the lee of a trio of large shields held high by armsmen. He raised his
hands and gestured grandly—but was answered by fearful shouts as his magic
went wild. Instead of fading away, the blades flew in all directions,
butchering Harpers and Zhents alike.
A strident horn call began another Zhent cavalry charge, striking at the
Riders again along the southern edge of the dale. The ground shook as sixty or
more horsemen gathered speed, heading west. The Zhentilar foot soldiers
advanced, too, striding purposefully to overwhelm the few defenders.
Shar caught a seeking sword on her dagger, warded it away, and drove her own
blade into the man's throat. As he spun away, clutching the spraying gore, she
sprang to meet the next man, leaping high to put all her weight behind the
downstroke. Her steel glanced off the guards of a slow parrying blade and
sheared through its wielder's jaw. He fell back, choking, and was trampled by
his fellow soldiers in their hunger to get at her.
119
ED GREENWOOD
"Hold the line!" she heard Rath an Thentraver roar, somewhere to the left.
A Harper fell against her leg and went down, a sword in his face. Only
Belkram's swift blade saved Shar, and they retreated together, Itharr striking
aside Zhent blades from one side.
"Kiss my steel!" Torm shouted defiantly nearby, and was answered by a short
scream.
Shar reeled, found her footing again, and glared wildly around. The defenders
of Mistledale were reduced to a few knots of struggling swords—themselves and
the Knights of Myth Drannor. The gaps in the line were so large now that the
farmers, back behind the fray, could loose shafts freely through them—and only
that paltry but deadly fire was keeping the Zhents from sweeping forward to
surround and rout them.
The horns called anew. The defenders fell back again, seeking another line of
standards as lightnings danced briefly among the Zhents. The creek was far off
now, across a sea of bobbing black helms, and the iron taste of grim despair
rose in Sharantyr's mouth.
They were all going to die here, today, swept away by a thousand Zhent blades,
sent to their deaths by Elmin-ster in this dark time on Faerun., . .
With a crash that shook the battlefield, the Zhent cavalry and the Riders of
Mistledale rushed together. A breath later, something flashed across the sky.
The Zhentarim spellmaster tried another futile spell—and was answered by
Jhessail and Illistyl, who sent a dancing serpent of flame through the ranks
of the advancing armsmen.
Shar heard Sylune^s voice rise in sudden passion. An instant later, a knot of
Zhentilar armsmen levitated into the air, waving weapons in futile horror,
lofting high above the battlefield.
Some of their fellows were too slow witted to avoid walking beneath the
shouting spell victims and were gawking up at their fellows aloft when the
Zhentilar
ALL SHADOWS FLED
plunged back to earth. They crashed down like so much spilled kindling to
smash into bloody ruin on the earth and raised blades below.
The Zhent advance faltered. In the sudden lull, a man in old and shiny black
Rider armor pushed past Shar and strode into the Zhent ranks, a shimmering
arrowhead of force preceding him, cleaving men who stood in his way.
"Here me, Tempus, Lord of Battles!" the man roared as he went, hands raised
and empty. "Let the old warriors rise, if it pleases ye! Raise a ring of
skulls, I entreat ye! Oh, Tempus!"
It was the old Rider, Baergil. A Zhent, drawn sword in hand, ducked around
behind the old priest's magic and raced in. As he jerked back the white-horse
helm and drew his sword viciously across the exposed throat, there came one
last, bubbling cry of Tempusss!"
The spell was complete. Baergil's body blazed with sudden blue fire. His
slayer fell back in awe. The dead priest hung upright in the streaming flames,
hands uplifted to the sky, and men murmured at the sight.
Cries of awe and fear came as the trampled turf under the Zhents erupted.
Staring things of mottled green and brown bones burst up out of the soil . . .
rising through the horrified armsmen to form into a silent, floating ring of
skulls just overhead. Many battles had been fought by the banks of Swords
Creek, and countless warriors had fallen here, to lie under the earth until
called up by so mighty a magic.
The eyes of the skulls flared into sudden fire, the same cold, eerie blue
flame that blazed around Baergil. Zhentilar cried out in alarm and began to
run—but nothing could flee fast enough to escape the rays of chill light that
lanced from the skulls through the Zhent host.
Where those blue rays touched the running or striding armsmen of the Sword of
the South, flesh melted away, leaving only bones. Skeletal warriors rushed on
121
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
for a pace or two, and then collapsed.
The Zhents on the far side of the creek and the defenders of Mistledaie alike
stared in horror as thousands of armsmen died.
When no man was left standing between Baergil's corpse and the creek, the
skulls turned until the rays that streamed from their glowing sockets met in
the heart of the field of bones. Blue light pulsed and built to almost
blinding fury, and gauntlets were raised to shield eyes all over the
battlefield. An armored form strode along in the heart of the radiance.
It had been striding forever, it seemed, fearless and patient, a figure twelve
feet tall and clad in a full suit of gleaming plate armor, visor down. As the
rays began to fade and the skulls sank back to the earth in silent unison, the
armored figure was suddenly among them, treading on Zhentilar bones without a
sound, walking toward Baergil.
"The War God," someone whispered. The defenders of Mistledaie fell back at the
armored giant's approach.
In eerie silence, two flaming blue gauntlets reached out and took up the
priest's body, cradling it against the massive chest. The Knights of Myth
Drannor parted in respectful silence. The helm turned slowly from side to side
to survey them, and for just a moment Shar felt the scorching weight of eyes
that blazed like two red flames.
In silence, Tempus strode on, west toward distant Ashabenford, bearing
Baergil's body in his arms. To those who watched, it seemed the body began to
burn, blazing its own miniature pyre.
The implacable avatar vanished over the hill . . . and left the handful of
weary men and women to defend Mistledaie against several thousand shaken
Zhentilar soldiers.
What was left of the Sword of the South stood along the east bank of Swords
Creek, still more than enough armsmen to crush the few who resisted them.
Their
hireswords and booty brothers were among the fallen; those who remained were
veteran Zhent blackhelms. In fearful, sullen silence, they eyed the field of
death before them, but orders were shouted, and officers ran about brandishing
maces . . . and reluctantly, the soldiers of Zhentit Keep began to advance.
"It must be now," Sharantyr heard Sylune say quietly.
In the distance, there came a sudden burst of radiance as the Witch of
Shadowdale appeared in the heart of the Zhents ... in the small space between
Swordlord Amglar and Spellmaster Nentor Thuldoum. The men broke off their
arguing to gape in unison at the beautiful woman who stood between them, the
glow of her magic fading around her.
"Well met indeed, gentlesirs," Sylune" told them softly, raising her lithe
arms in glee.
The magic missiles that streamed out of her riddled both men, even before the
fireballs and bolts of lightning leapt forth in then* wake.
Amglar and Nentor of the Zhentarim died screaming.
Sylun6 sang a terrible, wordless song of rage and sorrow for the body she was
losing, and her slim-hipped form blazed white with the fury of the magic
coursing through her.
Zhentilar stared at the dancing, burning figure in their midst, and then
perished in the whirlwind of unleashed spells that sprayed death in all
directions from the woman.
Florin swallowed what might have been a sob as he watched bright flames gout
from Sylune's eyes and mouth, streaming across scorched turf to immolate
shouting Zhentilar, whose vainly hurled spears vanished in that inferno.
There came a quickening of the spell fury, and Sylune's head was gone, blown
away with the awesome energies pouring from her. The headless body turned as
if it could see, and raised its hands to burn fleeing
4-123 +
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Zhent horsemen from their distant saddles. Flames streamed from her neck and
hands . . . and before she turned away, her hands were gone, and spells were
now leaping from the stumps of her arms.
Someone was rallying the Zhentilar as the stream of spells flickered, and then
ceased . . . and men in ebon armor charged across the smoking ground, blades
raised to slay the swaying, disintegrating Witch of Shadowdale.
"No!" Belkram roared, waving his own blade in sudden fury. "For Mistledale!
For Sylune!" He rushed across the strewn bones, his sword held high. Itharr
and Florin raced to catch up to him. Sharantyr was moving before she thought
about it, following her companions into a band of scattered, dazed-looking
Zhent blackhelms still several hundred strong.
Beside her, Shar saw flashing legs and a bouncing bosom, and turned to see
Jhessail sprinting along, weaponless, with Illistyl running at her heels and
Merith moving with fluid grace and drawn sword.
"Wait!" Rathan puffed, behind them. "Save some Zhents for me!"
They were almost at the stream and the grim-faced foremost Zhents who stood
there when what was left of the Witch of Shadowdale vanished in a burst of
snarling flames that threw men headlong or sent them fleeing wildly back
toward the trees.
Then Belkram, Itharr, and Florin splashed across the stream, roaring out their
grief together. They fell upon the Zhents like three maddened reapers mowing
wheat. It was the last such harvest that their foes needed to see: the
shattered Sword of the South broke and fled, an army no more.
Belkram ran on toward the dying flames that had been Sylune, and Itharr and
Florin paced him, sword-ing the few blackhelms foolish enough to get in their
way. Sharantyr tried to catch up, but her lungs were burning; she'd never seen
men run so fast before.
By the time she reached the spot where Belkram knelt, the Harper was on his
knees amid the smoldering ashes, weeping.
The stone cradled so gently in his gauntlets had cracked in the heat. "Lady,"
Belkram sobbed despairingly, "leave us not!"
But there came no reply but the creak of cooling stone. The Harper raised a
face that streamed tears and cried to Florin, "Do something!"
The Knight smiled down at him and undid the last buckle of his chest armor. As
it fell open, he drew forth something he wore on a chain. A lump of stone. All
of the gathered adventurers saw a streak of ghostly radiance arc from the
shattered stone to the good one.
The stone winked once with its stored fire, reassuringly. Florin took off the
chain and handed it to Belkram. "Yours, I think," the Shield of Shadowdale
said quietly. "I think she's grown tired of Torm's tricks."
Belkram's eyes shone. He was still struggling to speak when the Riders of
Mistledale swept past with lowered lances, ruthlessly riding down fleeing
Zhents. "For Baergil!" they bellowed as they went. "For Baergil!"
Kuthe was in the foremost saddle, swaying and pale, blood all down his front
from a deep wound in his shoulder. "Kuthe!" Jhessail called as he spurred his
mount past. "Have done! They're beaten!"
He rode in a wide circle back to her, face set, and said, The field may be
ours, Lady, but Mistledale is my home. Every Zhent who can still walk by
sunset is a sword that can strike from darkness when we sleep! Ill not rest
until they're all dead and done!"
Fflarast Blackriver and the old Harper who'd seen the sky rain wizards for the
first time yesterday lay side by side under the very hooves of Kuthe's mount
as he snarled those words, but they did not hear him. Dust lay on their
staring eyes and still faces, and the darkening blood spilled under them both
was the same hue:
124
ED GREENWOOD
one could not tell which was the Harper's, and which belonged to the
Zhentilar.
The leader of the Riders spurred away, the weary hooves of his mount trampling
both bodies. Florin watched him go. "Where is the captain of the Riders?" he
asked quietly.
"Who?" Rathan asked. That lady paladin?"
"Aye," Florin replied, "I've known her a long time."
"Oho," Torm spoke up, "an old lady friend, eh? May—"
His crowing words ended in a sharp gasp as Illistyl thrust a sharp hand into
his gut. "Someday, clever tongue," she warned him, "you'll say just one word
too many. . . ."
"Uhhh," Torm agreed, doubled over.
"Indubitably," Rathan translated, looking at the breathless thief with
interest.
Florin, ignoring them all, was striding across the field and looking for
Captain Nelyssa.
He caught sight of her at last, hard by the trees on the southern edge of the
dale, well behind the last standard the defenders of the dale had rallied
around. A mound of Zhentilar lay heaped about her and the sprawled bulk of her
horse. A band of blackhelms had tried to outflank the fray—and paid for their
cunning with their lives. There'd been over thirty of them, though, and it
seemed the veteran Zhentilar armsmen were the measure of one paladin of
Chauntea.
In a small lake of blood at the heart of the heaped dead lay the hacked and
twisted form of Nelyssa, captain of the Riders of Mistledale, her armor torn
open down the bloody mess of her front, and her notched and broken blade still
clutched in her hand. Even as Florin broke into a run and shouted, lifting the
heads of Harpers and farmers who knelt by the still form, he knew he was too
late.
Nelyssa's face was unmarked, but bone-white; she looked very like the young
lass Florin had known so long ago . . . but her eyes were dark and sightless.
The
12,6
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ranger stared into them as he sank down beside her and let out a long,
shuddering sigh of grief. Was this madness of strife going to claim all the
best hearts and minds before it was done?
"I need your sword, noble Falconhand," said a voice as rough and sharp as the
skin of its owner. Margrueth of the Harpers laid her hand on Florin's own. The
ranger looked up at her, finding it suddenly hard to drag his eyes away from
Nelyssa's frozen face.
When he did, he was shocked at what he saw. The fire of life had gone out of
the Harper sorceress, too. She was gray to the lips, and her skin was sunken
and shriveled so that it seemed a skull thinly draped with flesh. Only the
eyes told him the feisty Margrueth still lived, eyes dancing like two lively
dark flames. "You will aid me in this, Knight. I must have your oath on it."
"My oath?" Weary and sad as he was, Florin still found that he could be
startled. He looked around at the wondering farmers and the grim-faced
Harpers, leaving him alone with the living woman and the dead one. They looked
back at him. His oath. Whatever for?
And then, because she was old Margrueth and she was a Harper—and because he
was Florin Falcon-hand—he turned to meet those wise old eyes. Holding her
gaze, he lifted his voice to say clearly, "In Mielikki's name and mine own, I,
Florin Falconhand, born of Cor-myr, Lord of Shadowdale and Knight of Myth
Drannor, promise on my honor to aid you, Margrueth, on this day and on this
field, as you would command me."
"Nicely done," Margrueth said with a smile. "Now this is what 111 have you
do—and swiftly, for the spells I wove today burned much life from me ... I'd
not live to see sunset whatever befell. Know for your own comfort that I act
freely in this, and my wits are mine own."
She laid herself down, wheezing a little, atop Nelyssa's body, face to face,
"Count four breaths, noble Florin, and plunge your blade into my back. Mind
that it goes right through me, and into the lass beneath—
127
En GREENWOOD
and that you hold it thus for a breath, no more. Do this." And with that
order, she put her lips to the paladin's mouth.
Florin stared down at her, swallowed, and then said hurriedly, in the two
breaths left to him, "You shall be remembered with honor, Margrueth!"
As he'd been bid, he brought his blade down in a clean thrust, right through
the old sorceress, and into Nelyssa beneath, where her armor was all riven
away down her front. Margrueth jerked once under his steel, and blue-white
light, like many tiny lightnings, crackled and danced around the joined lips
of the two women.
Florin drew his blade out carefully. For a moment, the same radiance clung to
its suddenly shining length. It looked as bright and sharp as it was when new,
the scrapes and nicks of battle gone from it.
Yet more wondrous far was what befell where it had been. Margrueth's body was
twisting and contracting into a thing of curling smoke, to the accompaniment
of one last, dry chuckle.
That sound faded, and Nelyssa's revealed body stirred, color returned to her
face, and a light came into her dark eyes. She slowly sat up.
"Florin?" she asked softly as the Harpers and farmers around cried out in
wonder, gasped, or wept, "Have I slept? Is the day won—or lost?"
And Florin Falconhand cast aside his blade and knelt to take her in his arms.
"Won for some, Captain . . . won for Mistledale. And yet lost for others, lost
forever. Margrueth traded her life for yours."
The captain of the Riders turned pale. "No!"
"Aye, Nelyssa," Florin said gently, "you must know this, and hear the truth.
She chose freely, and worked a magic I did not know, binding me under oath.
Mine was the blade that took her life, and gave it to you. She was at the end
of her life, drained by this battle . . . and brought you back to us."
The paladin of Chauntea flung her arms around him
128
ALL SHADOWS FLED
and wept.
"Hmmph," Torm said to Rathan as they trudged across the field, taking up the
best weapons and tossing them on a farmer's sledge to bear back to
Ashabenford, "women never do that to me. My arms await—see? Here they are, two
of them, and fairly well matched to each other, too—and do ladies sob their
sorrows away into my breast? No! Is it the cut of his chin, d'you think? The
wave in his hair? His strong, manly bearing? Those gleaming teeth?"
"All of those," his friend agreed. "Now give me a hand with this halberd—three
dead ones draped over it, look ye; three—and take comfort in the fact that
ye've probably been in almost as many strange beds as he has . . . an' that
ye're better far at stealing things."
"Umm," Torm agreed, looking again at the woman in Florin's arms. His eyes fell
to the dark, sticky puddle of blood they shared, and he swallowed. So much
blood. .. .
"When we get back to the Six Shields," he told Rathan fiercely, "I'm going to
get very drunk!"
"Oh? Don't forget that ye lost the bet with Sylune! We won the battle, so ye
have to wear the scanties ye were putting on her, an' go sit in the window!"
"But she's . . . dead. You won't hold me to—"
"Oh, but I will," Rathan said softly. "In memory of her, ye will sit in that
window this night, if I have to break thy limbs to get the fripperies onto
ye."
Torm tore a gorget free of a Zhentilar who'd not be needing it anymore, and
flung it with a clatter onto the sledge. "I'm going to get very very drunk!"
he said fiercely, "first."
"Hmm," Rathan said, lifting a body into the air with one hand to pluck daggers
free with the other, "that'll make the dressing an amusing affair. May I
watch?"
ED GREENWOOD
"He'll be too drunk to stop anyone from watching," one buzzard commented to
the other, shifting a little on a low, bare branch as a nearby farmer gave
them a dirty look, bent to pick up a fallen bow, and then shrugged and turned
away, knowing he couldn't hit the tree, let alone two watchful carrion birds.
"Faerun certainly affords more entertainment than Shadowhome," Bralatar said,
remembering the battle as he looked out over the ravaged field.
"And because the peril to and consequences for us are the less, one can really
enjoy it," Lorgyn replied, watching Merith and Jhessail embrace, and Illistyl,
after a moment, turn and look around the battlefield for Torm.
"I cannot understand the thinking of Yinthrim, to throw life and all the
unfolding chances of this world away just to try to avenge kin who may well
have plotted his own death, had they lived."
"Atari, yes," Lorgyn agreed, "would always plunge into battle, given the
slightest of excuses, but such folly is unusual for Yinthrim." He looked at
the site of the tent where the two Malaugrym had perished the night before—now
a trampled sward strewn with sprawled bodies. He shrugged. "I guess battle
hunger overtook them."
"Battle hunger? Attacking three sleeping humans is something done out of
'battle hunger1?" Bralatar had a fine, showy grasp of sarcastic incredulity
when something aroused him to it. He shifted on the branch, fluttering his
feathers in irritation. "Admit they liked to slay folk, and fatally misjudged
the fervor of these mortals, and have done with it. Two fewer fools to breed
will make our house that much the stronger."
"A phrase fit for a speech of any Shadowmaster High," Lorgyn acknowledged,
bowing his head. "So when, in your judgment, would it be best that we make our
strike against the three who dared to intrude into
ISO
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Shadowhome, and slay so many Malaugrym?''
"When those three rangers are much older, and we've seen far more of this
world—or at least, not now," Bralatar replied with his usual sharp humor.
"Those two maids over there—Jhessail and Illistyl, if I heard aright—still
have spells left. And who knows how many of those Harpers are mages? I'm not
descending into the midst of a battlefield where one old man called down a god
not long ago!"
"And the Lord of Battles at that," Lorgyn agreed. "Now is not a good time."
" 'Now' is never a good time," Bralatar said dryly.
"At first light," Florin ordered, looking around the map-strewn room, "we ride
north to Shadowdale, where our swords are sorely needed."
Kuthe nodded grimly. "Haste must be our course, yes." He looked at the cot
where Nelyssa lay, nodding weakly.
"I shall ride to Shadowdale on the morrow," she said firmly, "and any man who
shouts at me not to go will serve me as a replacement mount!"
Kuthe closed his open mouth stiffly, and turned his head away, then swung it
around again, opened his mouth to speak, caught her eye—and closed his jaws
once more.
Torm and Rathan, scratching at their rough, stiff bandages, sputtered with
mirth and went out hastily.
"Ah, 'twas worth all that jabber to see Lord High-and-Mighty's face!" Torm
chuckled. "Now, let's be finding that drink I was talking of..."
"I'll go with ye," Rathan said grimly. "Too many friends fell this day. I want
to feel a small fire in my belly this night."
Torm raised his eyebrows. "And why not? You do that every other night; why
change things now?"
131
ED GREENWOOD
Rathan favored him with both a weary look and an unpriestly gesture.
*****
Just after the two Knights had wearily passed around a corner of the street, a
door swung open, and Illistyl hurried, white-faced, out into the waiting
night. Her mind yet burned with the sight of a Rider's crushed leg being
amputated, the grim faces of sawing surgeon and patient, the Rider's rolling
eyes. Illistyl shook her head as she stumbled along in the darkness, but could
not shake the images away. .. .
Suddenly something was rising within her. She fell heavily to her knees and
vomited into the dark grass.
A weary Rider turned his head at the sound, watched her sobbing out the
contents of her stomach, and turned back to sewing up a comrade's slashed arm.
"Hmm," he said thoughtfully, "it seems great adventurers are human after all."
His older companion winced as the needle went in again. "Oh, they're human,
lad ... all too human. That's where most of the trouble begins."
132
Eoen WizoRds Mast Die
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 18
The mists of morning were still drifting off the river as the Knights of Myth
Drannor and the Riders of Mistledale rode north together, leather creaking
loudly among the riverbank trees. They pressed on, stiff and sore from
yesterday's fighting, but more than one Rider wore a wondering smile as he
looked around at the awakening forest on this bright morning he'd not expected
to see.
"Such a victory," one man muttered to his companion. "Thousands we sent to
their graves. 'Twas the favor of the gods, to be sure, that we weren't all
sent to the Deathrealms in their first charge, and Mistledale laid waste
before highsun!"
"Aye, we place much store in the favor of the gods," his comrade replied, "or
we'd not be riding straight into another battle!" He pointed ahead. Plumes of
smoke rose into the sky to the north.
Shadowdale was burning.
The Knights and Riders pressed on up the Mistle Trail, urging their mounts to
greater haste.
Torm waved a hand at the smoke and said loudly and bitterly, "Look! Well get
there in time to join the Zhents at their fires, with the dale pillaged and
burned and not
ED GREENWOOD
a man or maid left to fight for!"
"Say not so!" Merith told him, but Kuthe and Nelyssa nodded slowly.
"We've taken this way in haste before," the captain of the Riders said, her
eyes very dark, "and spent more than a day in the forest... and that was a few
riders on fresh, swift mounts—not a force this large that fought yesterday."
Belkram was frowning and holding his head to one side, as if listening to
something. He straightened in his saddle and said, "There is a way to take us
there more swiftly."
Florin Falconhand, who rode at the head of the column, turned his head. "You
mean magic," he said grimly. tfls that wise, given the chaos ruling sorcery?"
Belkram listened for a breath longer, and then shrugged. "Sylune says
teleportation seems unaffected—it served her even on the battlefield
yester-morn, passing wild magic shields to do so."
"Without a body, she can't cast any spells," Kuthe pointed out. "What good is
it if the Lady Jhessail here hurls one of us on ahead? A lone rider makes a
better target than a relief force!"
"There is a way to take us all," Belkram replied slowly, passing on the words
from the stone that held the Witch of Shadowdale. "Elminster taught it to m—
her."
The ranger nodded. "There is a risk," Florin said; it was a statement, not a
query. He looked around at the others, holding up his hand for a halt. "Are
you willing to take on that danger? All of you?"
The Knights nodded without hesitation. Among the Riders were some swift
glances back and forth, and shrugs. One .leaned forward and asked Florin, "Are
you?"
The Shield of Shadowdale shrugged. "Of course."
"He's a Knight of Myth Drannor," Rathan explained as if to a child.
154*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Which is to say, he's a reckless idiot," Torm elaborated in a stage whisper.
The men of Mistledale were still chuckling when Captain Nelyssa said crisply,
"I will undergo this magic. Let us be about it."
"We'll need some space," Belkram said, and pointed into the trees. "That glade
there."
Nelyssa nodded. "Let all who are unwilling to chance this spell stay here on
the trail." She turned her horse's head and guided it into the trees.
As they followed, Belkram looked at Jhessail. "You must do the casting."
She wrinkled her nose at him. "So I'd gathered."
No one stayed on the road. When everyone was arrayed around Belkram, he took
off the chain and gave it to Jhessail. She held up the stone, and grew still
for a moment as she listened. Merith, who'd been in such castings before, slid
deftly from his saddle and lay on the ground, taking hold of one hoof of his
horse and one of his lady's ankles. Florin edged his mount over to take a firm
hold on Merith's horse, and Sharantyr, Itharr, Belkram, Captain Nelyssa, and
Kuthe followed, creating a human chain.
Jhessail smiled her thanks, and said, "Draw in close, everyone—to touch at
least one other person or their mount. Remain that way, and don't pull free
until we're elsewhere."
She drew a deep breath and put the stone into her mouth. Closing her eyes in
concentration, Jhessail followed Sylune's guidance in the casting. The loop of
chain dangling from her chin rattled as she moved. After a brief series of
gestures, she threw both hands high into the air and froze.
A blue mist raced out from her body to swirl around them all. It rose, growing
thicker and winking with small flashes of blue light . . . light that was
suddenly blinding, blotting the world out in an shifting, drifting swirl. . .
that faded away to show Faerun again.
135
ED GREENWOOD
They were in a different clearing—a larger space littered with felled trees
and stacked firewood. To the north was daylight, where the woods gave way to
the first fields of Shadowdale. Through the cloaking trees, they saw the stone
bridge over the Ashaba, where a watchful guard always stood.
A guard of three frightened old men, whose spears trembled in their hands as
they shouted in alarm at the sudden appearance of so many horsemen. Florin
took his hand from Merith's horse to raise it in a reassuring salute.
Jhessail shuddered and collapsed silently onto her husband, the stone falling
from her mouth.
"Is she—?" Belkram and Itharr said together, leaning anxiously down. Merith
cradled her as he reached out, plucked up the stone that was Sylune, and held
it up to Belkram.
"Drained, not dead," the elf said softly. "A mass tele-port is something far
beyond her Art. Though Sylune gave direction, my Jhess worked the spell."
"We must still make haste," Nelyssa reminded.
Illistyl frowned. "Florin! Come back here!"
The ranger, who was halfway to the bridge, acknowledged the relieved greetings
of the dalesmen before he turned questioningly.
"I haven't Art to equal Jhess's," the younger sorceress said, "but I can
manage something you should use now."
Florin was already hurrying his war horse back to her. Firefoam had paced
restlessly back and forth behind the lines of the battle yesterday, and was
eager to get into a proper fray; he snorted and tossed his head as they
approached Illistyl, fearing he would be relegated to stand and watch, again.
The diminutive sorceress stood looking up at him as his great muzzle lowered
to her nose.
"How would you like to fly?" she asked softly.
Firefoam's bugle awoke echoes from the trees around and made many of the other
horses stamp and whinny.
15(5
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Fly ahead," Illistyl said, looking up at Florin, "and see where we're needed.
Rally folk, and return if you need us anywhere in particular—otherwise, we'll
just charge on up the road and kill Zhents!"
"A shrewd grasp of tactics," Captain Nelyssa said dryly.
Illistyl cast her spell with deft speed.
Florin scooped the limp form of Jhessail from Merith's arms and settled her
against his own chest.
"Done! Get you gone!" Illistyl cried, waving her hands; Florin smiled his
thanks and saluted as Fire-foam bounded aloft—and was gone across the sky,
heading for the distant Tower of Ashaba.
As they hurried across, Jhessail asked the first old farmer on the bridge,
"How goes the battle?"
"Not well," he rasped. "Too many Zhents!"
"A problem we're familiar with," Torm agreed grandly, urging his horse off the
bridge.
An instant later, the ground rocked and thundered. Riders fought to control
snorting mounts and stay in their saddles as they gaped at a huge ball of
flame that rose up, up into the sky over Shadowdale.
"The tower?" Illistyl gasped, white to the lips. "Florin?"
"Not the tower," Jhessail said, shaking her head. "But close by, west and
south."
"The temple of Lathander," Rathan grunted, "or I'm an idiot."
"You are an idiot," Torm pointed out.
Rathan's reply was a certain wordless gesture with his mace as he hauled on
the reins, taking his horse to one side of the cart road and gaining room to
gallop. Torm cast a quick look back to see all the Riders doing so, and pulled
his mount to the left, catching a glare from Kuthe for his tardiness.
"Ready, all?" Captain Nelyssa asked crisply. "For-wardr
At her yell, they nudged their mounts into a gallop
137
ED GREENWOOD
and swept north into the heart of Shadowdale.
The smoke lay like a haze in the air here, drifting out of the trees to the
east, and the fields around them were green and deserted. Up ahead, they could
hear the swelling sound of shouts and screams and the clangor of steel on
steel. Here and there a blade flashed as it caught the sunlight through the
smoke and swirling dust.
The crossroads in front of the Old Skull Inn was heaped with dead. The twisted
mounds were so high the Zhentilar, advancing in a great horde from the east,
had to scramble and climb. The grisly, slippery wall was being held against
them by desperate dalesmen wielding axes and blades.
Among the dusty defenders were Storm Silverhand and her sister, Dove, both
clad in battered and scorched plate armor but bareheaded, their silver tresses
swirling as they fought. Storm leapt into the air and smashed aside a foe's
blade, her other hand snaking in to take him by the throat. Muscles rippled in
her arm as they crashed back down to earth together. The Zhent blackhelm
struggled for a moment in her iron grip— then fell limp, his neck broken. Two
of his fellows scrambled up the mound of dead, waving blades to get their
chance at the Bard of Shadowdale.
Dove Falconhand took that chance away, rushing along the line of defenders to
thrust one Zhent desperately aside into the other armsman. Off-balance, the
blackhelms stumbled among the corpses. Storm dumped the man she'd just slain
atop one, and kicked the other in the face with her boot. He fell down the
heap, head rolling limply, and was smashed aside by more Zhentilar rushing up
to challenge Storm in their turn.
"That's the problem with Zhents," Rathan growled as they turned their horses
toward the black-armored host crowded up against the wall of dead. "There're
always too many of them."
138
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Lances down!" Nelyssa cried, and led the charge.
Through the thunder of pounding hooves they heard someone of Shadowdale cry,
"The Riders! The Riders of Mistledale!"
"And the mighty Torm, too!" the thief shouted back, just before they crashed
into the Zhent lines.
Men reeled like broken dolls under the impact of hooves and lances and
thundering war horses, and when the press of bodies slowed their progress, the
Riders let go their lances and laid about themselves with swords and maces.
"Shadowdale!" Dove Falconhand snarled, leading a charge from the ridge of
slain.
There were screams of agony and frustration from the Zhents, packed too
tightly together to raise weapons or move from the blades.
A desperately wielded spear sought Term's thigh; he sprang from his saddle and
vaulted into the fray, drawn sword extended between his boots. He came down
atop a Zhentilar and rode the man to the ground, stabbing viciously with the
dagger in his free hand. The man convulsed and lay still; by then Torm was two
kills away, his slim blade and dagger sliding in and out before the
close-packed Zhents could react.
With a wall of corpses around him like a shield, he struck out from between
their bodies, swift and sure, thrusting, dancing away from blades ,.. until
the crash of a felled Rider and his horse cleared some space, and the dead
began to topple and slump all around.
Into the opened space leapt Storm, clapping a gasping Torm on his shoulder.
"Bravely done!"
"Ah—all for . . . you . . . Lady," Torm huffed, trying to essay a courtly
bow—and slipping in gore so that he lurched to one knee. The fall saved his
life; a whirling axe meant for his head flashed harmlessly through empty air.
Storm hauled him upright. "The battle's this way," she said helpfully,
pointing with a sword that was red
ED GREENWOOD
to the hilt.
He gave her a fierce smile in answer. Then his jaw dropped. "By the gods,
look!" he bellowed, pointing. Storm turned in time to see Belkram, Itharr, and
Shar-antyr advance another pace through the ranks of Zhen-tilar. Fighting in
unison, standing close together in a human arrowhead, they were dealing death
with furious speed.
"The Rangers Three," Storm said, watching her pupils in admiration.
The hesitant gangliness she'd seen all too often the day she'd fought Belkram
and Itharr at the farmhouse was gone. Now they moved like dancers, deft and
quick. Sharantyr was the key. Her smooth style had drawn the two Harpers into
a team. Storm began to believe their survival in the castle of the Malaugrym
was more than good fortune bolstered by the aid of Mystra and Elminster. She
shook her head in pleased admiration and threw herself into the battle once
more, coming up alongside the Rangers Three in their bloody foray into the
Zhent ranks.
The Rider charge had cleared space enough to fight, and the easy killing was
done. Fresh Zhents were pressing forward for their first chance to fight, and
there seemed no end to them.
They'd struck at Shadowdale from the west, and from the north. Some fell magic
had wrought a great explosion and fire westward, hard by the Twisted Tower.
There was fighting all over the dale, and the day might still be lost—but this
welcome, unexpected aid had come from Mistledale, from whence she'd expected
only more blackhelms.
"Azuth be with us," she breathed, feeling fresh sorrow at the thought that
Mystra was no more.
Storm swept her notched long sword up to strike aside a reaching halberd.
Catching hold of it as the man rushed helplessly forward, she pulled,
sprawling him to the turf in front of her. A dalesman stabbed the Zhent
14O-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
in the face before he could rise, and from somewhere near at hand Storm heard
the deep laughter of Bronn Selgard, the smith. Dove must be rallying the last
folk from the inn to join this push, to drive the Zhents back into the trees.
There was a ringing sound as the great iron-headed hammer Bronn wielded
crashed down on some unfortunate Zhent's helm. The winded Rangers Three began
to fall back. A spell hurled bodies in all directions, tearing a breach in the
wall of corpses behind her.
Storm turned, frowning—creating a breach for the Zhents to pour through? What
simpleton had birthed such a plan?—and then laughed aloud in delight.
"For Shadowdale!" came the roar from beyond the wall. Warriors in full plate
armor rode through the breach, lances gleaming. At their head, three figures
rode abreast: Florin; Mourngrym, lord of Shadowdale; and Shaerl, his lady.
" 'Ware!" Storm yelled to the Rangers Three, waving them aside.
Dove sprang acrobatically across the path of the charging horses, somersaulted
in a clanking of protesting armor, and fetched up beside Storm. Just then, the
lances of the charging dalefolk came down, crashing into the massed Zhentilar
in a great screaming of men and horses and tortured metal.
As first, the horses were slowed by the sheer weight of blackhelms standing
against them. The mounted armsmen of the tower spurred out and around them,
striking at the foe on either side. When the last horseman had charged, the
Zhent lines had fallen back a good twenty paces—a distance marked by a carpet
of black-armored fallen.
The dale riders pulled back to spare their horses from Zhent blades, and a
cheer went up from the weary farmers and merchants who'd held the wall of dead
so long against the forefront of the Zhent army.
A little space opened up between the defenders and
141
ED GREENWOOD
the army of Zhentil Keep; Dove stared across it and hissed, "Oh, for some
arrows . . ."
"All gone, hours ago," Storm told her, and they embraced wearily, eyes on the
foe. Both sides had paused to catch breath, it seemed, staring at each other
across the fallen, but making no move to attack.
"Gods, look how many there are," Shaerl murmured. "Can we hold them until
sunset?"
"We must," Mourngrym replied shortly, looking around at the dead. "And dark'll
bring the wolves and wild dogs out to feed, too."
"Well fought, you three," Storm called to Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr,
who'd sat down together on some dead Zhentilar, rubbing at aching shoulders
and bruised forearms.
"Of course," Itharr replied. "After all, you taught us."
Storm chuckled. "To dance with your blade, aye, a little—but fighting as one
is your own doing."
"They're coming again," Dove said, striding forward. " "Ware, all!"
She swung her sword in wide, wild arcs to loosen stiffening muscles, and set
herself to meet the Zhentilar attack; a cautious affair this time, with two or
three blackhelms moving against each defender.
"This could be bad," Belkram murmured.
Sharantyr sighed. "Just try to stay alive ... I need you both."
"You do?" Itharr asked, adopting Term's manner of mock astonishment.
"I do," Sharantyr growled back at him. "We've got those Malaugrym to catch,
remember?"
"Gods," Belkram cursed as he caught a hard-swung Zhent blade on his own and
was driven a pace back. "Do Elminster's little tasks never end?"
"Where is Elminster, anyway?" Itharr panted, slashing a staggering Zhent
across the face and bringing his blade up into the throat of the blackhelm
fencing with Sharantyr.
14S
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Off saving some other corner of the Realms, no doubt," Belkram said, driving
his foe back with a few solid swings.
"I don't care about other corners of the Realms," Torm called to them, "only
the one I'm in."
"An essentially selfish philosophy," Dove scolded him.
"But one that all lesser mortals must needs cling to, if they want to cling to
life," Torm returned archly. He threw the blade in his hand into one eye of a
snarling Zhent, who was charging in beside the one he was fighting. The man
crashed down, and the thief leapt high to avoid being knocked over. His Zhent
opponent wasn't so nimble, and toppled sideways, whereupon Hammer-hand Bucko,
the wagonmaker of the dale, calmly crushed the man's head with a sledgehammer.
"Thank you," Torm told him politely.
After gaping at him for a moment in amazement, Hammerhand grinned.
A trumpet rang out, the Zhents pressed forward, and the defenders of
Shadowdale became all too busy to talk.
A tortured scream topped the fray as Nelyssa's mount reared up, three blades
in its belly, and went down. The paladin threw herself clear at the last
moment. Only some desperate bladework by Storm and Dove, sparks dancing from
their furiously plied blades, kept the captain of the Riders alive until she
could find her feet and fight on.
Kuthe grunted in pain and went down, a spear through him, and a moment later
the Rider beside him fell, transfixed by three Zhent blades.
"Too many of them!" Merith snarled in frustration, swinging two swords in
deadly, whirling unison. "What price sundown now?"
"There's too many! We can't hold them!" Illistyl shouted, swinging a sword
awkwardly.
"We must hold them!" Mourngrym snarled back at her from the heart of a knot of
Zhents.
ED GREENWOOD
"Where in the name of the Seven Dancing Gods is the Old Mage?" Storm raged as
she carved her way to the lord of Shadowdale. "Especially now that we need
him—for once."
"The temple," a wounded priest of Lathander gasped from behind her. "He stood
alone there—or with a woman, some said—against Bane himself!"
Storm turned and stared at the rising column of black smoke that marked the
distant temple. "No," she whispered. "Oh, no." She leapt clear of the fray,
scant inches ahead of a Zhent blade, and sprinted away across the heaped dead.
Sharantyr turned, hacked through a Zhent black-helm twice her size, and saw
Storm spring into the saddle of a dale war horse. It leapt into a full gallop
like an arrow shot from a bow, heading west.
Though Shar whirled back to face another foe, she still saw Storm's anguished
face in her mind. No one should look like that. Nothing should ever happen in
Faerun to make the Bard of Shadowdale look like that.
She parried the Zhentilar blade and spun away to run after Storm's racing
dapple gray, heedless of the heaped dead.
Uncertainly, Belkram turned to follow, but Itharr shouted in alarm.
"Look you!" He pointed the other way, east beyond Krag Pool, where new plumes
of smoke were rising through the green leaves of the trees.
"Gods," Shaerl gasped, her face white, as she stared east into the blazing
forest. "The Zhents have fired the wood! The dale may become our pyre yet!"
The defenders of Shadowdale, too few and too weary to fight a blaze, stared at
the quickening flames in horror.
"Now," Dove said firmly, " 'tis time!" She held up the blade she bore and
called, "Eanamorrath!"
Lighting leapt from its suddenly blazing length, crackling along the line of
blackhelms to strike the
+ 144 +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
blade Lord Florin wielded. His sword flashed. Florin hissed at the shock of
the bolt surging through the weapon, and then the lightning leapt back,
sinking back into Dove's blade as if it were an errant phantom returning home.
In its wake lay a blackened path of dead Zhentilar, sprawled wherever the bolt
had danced, and the air was sharp with the smell of the strike that had felled
them. The surviving Zhent warriors drew back in disarray, leaving the
defenders alone with the dead.
"Florin!" Itharr shouted. "Lord Florin!"
The Shield of Shadowdale turned his head.
Itharr called, "We must pray to Mielikki for a downpour!"
"But if all the gods are cast down and powerless . . ." a Rider leaning on his
sword nearby said.
"No! He's right!" Illistyl snapped. "Mielikki and El-dath dwell in Faerun;
their power is sourced here. Shaerl! Is your maid, Jenna, anywhere about?"
"I—I sent her to help Jhaele tend the wounded at the Old Skull," Shaerl said
doubtfully, wiping sweat and tangled hair out of her eyes. "Why?"
"She worships Eldath," Illistyl snarled. "Come!"
"And what of the Zhents?" Mourngrym bellowed. He waved an arm to indicate the
hundreds of Zhentilar still facing them, though the blackhelms seemed to be
retreating to the trees at the edge of the dale.
"Fall back," Illistyl told him. "Back to this ridge of bodies. You can see the
inn from there, and Florin and the Rangers Three can join Jenna in prayer. If
the woods burn, we are all lost, whether we fight for Shadowdale or Zhentil
Keep!"
They all stared at her a moment, then scrambled to take up new positions among
the mounds of fallen. Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr found themselves trotting
toward the inn, panting, while Florin ran on ahead, feet racing as if he were
rested and fresh. Shaerl and Mourngrym ran along behind them as rearguard, and
ED GREENWOOD
the stout priest Rathan puffed after the hurrying band.
"Gods," Belkram said, stumbling as his throbbing feet sent fresh lances of
pain upward. "I don't think the gods meant me to be a hero! Being one of those
sleeping temple guards seems more within my grasp!"
"Here, now!" Rathan Thentraver said in offended tones. "Dost thou slander the
holy?"
"All too often," Itharr told him as they picked their way among the wounded
laid on blankets, restless in their pain. Someone was wailing in grief, and
blood-soaked bandages—and flies—were everywhere. "What does this Jenna look
like?"
"Just look for Florin," Belkram instructed, pointing at the open inn door, "He
must be in th—"
The ground heaved. A deafening howl of rage and grief smashed into the ears of
everyone in Shadowdale. Thrown to their knees, the three rangers looked back
east, from whence the sound had come.
A sphere of raging flames hung high in the air over the burning trees,
spinning. The flames from the woods below were being drawn up into it. It
pulsed, becoming almost blinding in its fury—but against the bright whirling
flames a figure could be seen standing in its fiery heart; a wildly leaping
figure clad in the black tatters of a gown.
"Oh, sweet gods spare us!" someone gasped.
The woods were dark and hissing now as the last fire soared up out of them.
The sphere spun once more before it hurled its fire down in a ravening beam of
utter destruction, into the Zhent soldiers crowded along the Voonlar road.
They did not even have time to scream before they were tumbling ashes. The
scouring flames lashed the very stones into rum.
The Central Blade of Bane's Black Gauntlet was no more.
"Who—?" one of the Riders asked in awe, staring up at the figure who stood on
empty air above the trees, all her flames spent now.
14<5
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"The Simbul," Shaerl whispered. She turned, swept a tankard off a table, and
drained it at a single gulp.
"The Witch-Queen?" the man gasped. "The Shield Against Thay?"
"The same," Shaerl replied bitterly, and turned into Mourngrym's arms with a
sob.
"This can only mean one thing," the lord of Shadow-dale said grimly, holding
his shaking, weeping lady. "El-minster is dead."
147
1O Time to be JmAy HeRoes
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 18
In a deepness that very few Malaugrym know, in the ever-shifting cellars of
the Castle of Shadows, there was a place where thinking shadows glided
endlessly through the gloom, vast and slow. These ponderous phantoms circled a
grotto where shapeshifters who bore the title Shadowmaster High had been wont
to hide the bones of rivals and others they'd deemed expedient to make
'vanish.'
The grotto was a cold cavern of rough rock where waters dripped endlessly
among the pale, chill glows of fungi, but at its heart two seats faced each
other—seats carved out of the flanks of massive, ancient stalagmites . . . and
these seats each bore a curious graven symbol believed to be the sign of
Malaug himself. It was a rune found in few places in the Castle of Shadows,
and all of its occurrences were well known in the lore of the House of
Malaug—save these two.
There was not much else to see in the bone-white glow but tumbled rock and
bones . . . but there was much to feel, hanging heavy and watchful on all
sides.
Even the youngest Shadowmasters had heard tales of locales in Shadowhome where
mighty magics slumbered, which only the Shadowmaster High could per-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ceive and wield. This was one of those places.
The young and ambitious Malaugrym Argast and Amdramnar had recently discovered
the grotto in separate, private explorations. Both had been guided in their
wanderings among the shifting shadows by the writings of Shadowmaster High
Melvydur. Dead these thousand years and more, Melvydur mentioned the grotto as
the place where the dynasty he founded was conceived—and where he laid to rest
the bodies of all his sons who rebelled against him. His writings end when the
last son succeeded in destroying Melvydur.
This secret grotto of silent bones and uncaring rock was a gloomy place . . .
but it was a place of power. Ancient magic lay heavy in the air, awaiting the
right word or gesture to awaken it. And more than anything else, those of the
blood of Malaug hungered after power.
Argast and Amdramnar were rivals, and perhaps the best of the younger
generation of Shadowmasters. Certainly they were the most subtle, patient, and
polite in their dealings—and so commanded the most respect, not to mention
fear, among their elders. Those elders would have been most surprised to see
them sharing any place in relative peace.
Indeed, as they sat facing each other, their faces were grim and wary, their
fingers very close to hurling slaying spells and wielding powerful and deadly
items. Yet they sat, and did not move to rend and slay. Their elders were
right to fear them.
"Have we agreement?" Argast asked.
"By my name, we do," Amdramnar replied. "Have we agreement?"
"By my name, we do," Argast responded as they watched the drops of their blood
slowly flow together into the vial.
They rose as one, and Argast took the vial and stoppered it, handing it to
Amdramnar to place on the seat he'd vacated. What befell one Shadowmaster
would now also afflict the other—until the vial was broken by
149
ED GREENWOOD
someone using the right spells to prevent grave damage to them both.
"If this agreement is to end, we must both meet here to quench it," Argast
intoned, continuing the old ritual both of them had read about, but never
witnessed.
"Agreed. When we meet, each of us may bring with him one other of the house—no
more, and no other beings," Amdramnar responded.
"Agreed," they affirmed together, and walked away from the heart of the
grotto, to where the cloaking shadows slid endlessly by.
"Were it not for so many destroyed," Argast said as their eyes met again, "I
should never have agreed to work with you in anything. And yet now I welcome
the prospect."
Amdramnar inclined his head. "I, too, hope that trust, even friendship, can
grow out of this. Whatever befalls, we must work together to destroy the three
beings who dared to strike down so many of our blood. They have done it once,
and could well come again . . . and what if they brought the Great Foe with
them this tune, or an army of lesser mages?"
"You befriended them," Argast said, "seeking to learn their ways and secrets.
Do you think they will seek to return?"
Amdramnar opened his mouth to reply, then sighed, shrugged, and shook his
head. "I know not. Their deeds and words did not always strike a good match
together—and they were accompanied by some sort of vigilant sentience of
greater sorcery than I command."
"Elminster, of course."
"No, I think not. A gentler, more neutral regard . . . less knowing, less . .
. afire with humor, let us say. I touched this intelligence only fleetingly."
Argast lifted his own shoulders and let them fall. "As you say, you have had
contact with this mysterious other, and I have not. It is not Elminster,
then." He hesitated as they stepped together onto the .back of the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
flapping shadow they'd been waiting for. It bore them away into roiling
dimness, and Argast added, "Please do not take my next query as anything more
unfriendly than a desire to know if some future use can be made of it. You
fancied the woman as a mate?"
Amdramnar regarded him expressionlessly. "I did, and do."
"Have you any knowledge of her feelings toward you?"
"She did not know what to make of me. I was not the menacing scaly thing she
expected—but she never relaxed, though she did trust me so far as to open
herself to attack on several occasions ... at least once to see what I'd do, I
am certain."
"And what would you do if you met her again?" "I do not know. I must learn
more of her true powers, aims, and loyalties. At present I still desire her as
a mate and as part of our house. Although the damage done by her weapon was .
. . unprecedented, she was acting at first to defend herself even as you or I
would against treachery from a fellow Malaugrym. That she and her companions
came here to do us harm is, I think, likely. That they did not know us is
certain, and so I must conclude that they came here on principle, or following
the orders of another,"
"Elminster? If not the Great Foe, then who?" "That is one of the things we
must learn." The shadow bore them into brighter and more tranquil
surroundings, a placid blue pool wreathed in mists, and Amdramnar added, "Yet
if the need arises, I would strike to slay her and her two companions without
hesitation. The men must die in any case, for the honor of our house. If the
woman proves less than I believe her to be, death can come to her whenever her
usefulness in breeding the next generation of Shadowmasters is done."
He turned his head to regard Argast. "On the other hand, she is but one of
many countless maids who walk
ED GREENWOOD
Faerun right now . . . and many of those, I'm given to understand, have a
strong talent for sorcery."
"More suitable mates may await both of us?"
"And many of our fellows, perhaps. We shall see. Faerun awaits."
"So many riches . . . denied to us for so long."
"At the command of the Great Foe, remember—bolstered by craven Shadowmasters
High who feared both his magic and the access all of us would have to things
not under the control of the Shadow Throne."
"This is truth," Argast said softly. "Even I've seen more in the great scrying
portal over the years than Dhalgrave intended, and I am one of those who pays
little attention to intrigues and watching over other planes. It is no wonder
some of our elders—Milhvar comes to mind—spent much time and effort on covert
expeditions into the realms of Faerun, seeking magic."
"And mates," Amdramnar said with the ghost of a smile, "if the rumors are
true."
"He has offspring in Faerun?"
"Ignorant of their heritage, and perhaps weak in their shapeshifting, no
doubt," Amdramnar replied, "but yes—several, I believe."
Argast frowned. "Unknown offspring aside, how many of our kin walk Faerun
right now?"
"Whoever survived battle with Sharantyr and her companions, when the sword
took her back to Faerun. Ahorga, I have seen . . . and two others who took
many shapes, but are possibly Atari and Yinthrim. There are others: two
working together, and at least one more. I cannot believe all of these fled
the battle; some of the kin must have seized upon the emptiness of the Shadow
Throne to defy the standing decrees and make their own ways into Faerun."
"Bralatar and Lorgyn have both vanished from their chambers," Argast said
quietly, "and have been absent for more than a dozen feastings."
"So," Amdramnar replied, one side of his face lifting
ALL SHADOWS FLED
into a smile, "let us do likewise, you and I. To Faerun, to take the shapes of
others, and watch patiently, and learn before we move against these mortals.
In the chaos ruling Faerun right now, we dare not rely on magic. Any foray
there now will be very dangerous— but what opportunities for hunting!"
"I feel its attraction more strongly as the years pass and we visit it not,"
Argast replied. "I begin to understand why so many of our elders defied the
Great Foe even when they knew death awaited them."
"Shadowhome and the planes we can readily reach never felt limiting in any way
before," Amdramnar said quietly. "Faerun seemed to be no more than some sort
of fanciful land of beasts where the restless of our house went to play, and
when careless got hurt there. But now. .."
"Let us prepare," Argast said, eyes shining. "I want to be in Faerun without
delay!"
The shadow glided to the place it always did, and they stepped off it and went
on up a dusty stair choked with the skeletal remains of dead and forgotten
servants, into an undercrypt several stairs beneath the Hall of Griffons.
There they parted, ascending into the castle proper by different ways so as
not to be seen together by interested eyes.
The gigantic shadow that had been their steed drifted on to a place the two
Malaugrym did not know. There it rose into a different form and called forth
four spherical stones of winking blue fire to orbit one of its wrists
endlessly.
"And so two more of the restless of our house go to play," it said in amused
tones, "one at least formally welcoming the prospect! Interesting times in old
Shadowhome, indeed!"
And as it chuckled, it did something else in the darkness, and vanished to
other, deeper places. There were many locales in Shadowhome that neither
Argast nor Amdramnar had ever visited, or known about. That
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
lack of knowledge, though, didn't seem likely to prove fatal to either of
them. Yet.
*****
Faerun, Shadowdale, Flamerule 18
The serene radiance of Selune fell upon ravaged Shadowdale as it did on all
the rest of Faerun this night. Bright moonlight gleamed on both the armor of
weary dale sentries and the bloodied gear of the dead. There was no sound but
the howling of wolves and the bawling of cattle whose dead masters would never
return to milk them. The two women who stood in a lonely place of scorched
stones were as silent as the night breezes.
One was the Bard of Shadowdale, Storm Silverhand, her face grim and smudged
with dirt and old, dried blood that was not her own. She still wore her armor,
and leaned on a sword that had seen much use this day. Had she not recently
drunk of a certain well-hidden decanter in her kitchen, she would be trembling
with weariness now.
The other woman had no body left to tire—she was a thing of ghostly radiance,
a softly curved bright shadow in the night. She floated upright above the
stones of her long-burned hut, face lifted to the stars, and began an
invocation to Mystra more ancient than she was . . . and that was old indeed.
No one disturbed them, or came near; such doings at the ruined hut were why
the folk of the dale still called her the Witch of Shadowdale, and shunned
this place.
"Great Lady of Mysteries, hear me," the ghostly lady said into the night,
picturing the dark, star-filled eyes of the goddess. "Your servant Sylune
entreats."
She and Storm both knew well that Mystra was no more, but perhaps the one who
had taken her place would hear... or steadfast Azuth, the Hand of Sorcery.
Her call fell into silence, and she stood there in the moonlight feeling more
lonely than she had for years. "Mystra, hear me," she said at last. "Azuth,
hear me."
From out of the darkness of vast distances, a voice echoed. A voice she knew.
"Azuth hears, little sister."
"Lord of Spellcraft," Sylun6 breathed, almost shuddering in relief, "does
Elminster live?"
There came a twinkling of lights in the air above her, soft green and blue
radiances that sparkled as they spun slowly about each other. From out of the
heart of this occurrence came the deep, confident voice of the god Azuth. "I
did not feel him pass . . . but I cannot feel his mind now, either. Much is in
chaos; I cannot be sure of his fate."
"I stand in Shadowdale," Sylune told him. "We have resisted the work of Bane
here thus far, at great cost."
"Aye, great cost, indeed. Mystra returned to us, and was lost again forever.
She and Elminster fought Bane for possession of a Celestial Stair"
Sylun6 closed her eyes in despair, but forced herself to say on. "I need your
guidance, High One. We face another peril: shapeshifters who call themselves
Malau-grym, who came into Faerun when the Sword of Mystra brought three heroes
back to us, three who went to the shadow realm of the shapeshifters to do Our
Lady's work. They are loose in the land, working mischief."
The great voice seemed to hold a tone of bitter amusement. "These days, it
seems half the multiverse is loose in Faerun, working mischief. . . one Azuth
among them. My powers are twisted and lessened. 'Tis all I can do to hold the
Realms together, with all the irresponsible spell-hurlers active. Red Wizards,
Calishite lords, Zhentarim, and near a thousand ambitious lone wizards whose
magic is mighty. Gods and mortals alike are trying to take advantage of the
widespread chaos. And without Mystra, magic is truly unreliable. I work
constantly to keep the fabric of all from being torn utterly by these ignorant
wielders of Art so that Toril will
ED GREENWOOD
not be dashed apart in utter destruction. You have my sympathy, Sister, and my
regrets . . . but you must contend with the House of Malaug on your own; I
dare not intervene. Gather your allies, and work as you have never worked
before. 'Tis time to truly be heroes."
Sylune stood motionless. "May you succeed in your task," she said softly.
"And may you find the good fortune Our Lady Mystra could not," the god
replied, "and prevail. Know that I love you, Sylune, and would aid if I could.
Look not to seek divine aid again until this Time of Troubles is past." And
the small storm of twinkling lights melted silently away, leaving the night
sky above the stones empty.
The ghostly figure of the Witch of Shadowdale stared up at the empty air where
Azuth had manifested, then turned toward her sister Storm and reached out.
"Take me away from here," she pleaded, her voice on the edge of tears. "Take
me back to your kitchen, and the fire, and your arms."
"Of course," Storm said quietly. She bent to take up the stone Belkram had
surrendered, and Sylune saw that her face was wet with tears.
They walked south and then east together, taking a long route around the heart
of the moonlit dale to avoid challenges and the worst of the dead.
"You heard all?" Sylune asked grimly.
Storm sighed. "Aye, this dale is going to be very different if Elminster is no
more."
"He was a father—and a friend—to you more than any of us," Sylune said softly.
" 'Tis I should be comforting you."
Storm shook her head wearily, as if to clear it. "I did not feel him die. I
can't be sure ... he may still live."
"And if he does not?"
"Then it is as Azuth told us: time for us—all of us Seven—to truly be heroes,
without his comforting aid and guidance . . . and vigilance for our safety."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Sylune sighed. "I never thought I'd be alive without him to turn to. He seems
as permanent a feature of the Realms as Mount Waterdeep, or Anauroch, or the
Shaar." They climbed a stile and descended into a field of parsnips. Halfway
down one of its long rows, she added, "Sharantyr is beside herself! I thought
she'd tear the two prisoners apart with her bare hands."
"She gave her blade to Mourngrym because she feared she'd want to use it,"
Storm said softly. "My own fury is past. El told me how tired of life he'd
become more than once this last season."
"Should we let those two go?"
"Mercy has ever been our watchword here, and yet..."
Storm's voice trailed away, and with slow deliberation she sheathed the blade
she held. "I may come to feel the rage Sharantyr holds again, tomorrow. Since
Doust became lord, we have always shown the people that justice by fair trial
holds sway in Shadowdale. So we will have a trial and justice, and Mourngrym
will have the hard task of sentencing."
She was silent for a long time before she added in a whisper, "I am glad of
that, because I don't feel like holding trials at all... I want to go out and
kill things."
"Your sword arm?" Sharantyr asked, watching Itharr wince and reach for his
shoulder.
He nodded. "I've worn it out these last two days."
"And seen enough death to last several lifetimes," Belkram added quietly,
handing him a goblet. Itharr took it in his good hand and hastily sipped at it
to prevent a spill.
Sharantyr dug her fingers into the muscles of his shoulder, and he shuddered
uncontrollably. He handed the goblet back to Belkram hastily.
"Thanks . . . I'll want the rest of it when this long-
ED GREENWOOD
taloned beast here stops tearing my shoulder apart!"
Sharantyr managed a playful snarl, but then fell silent again, her face sad.
She shook her head when Belkram offered the decanter to her, and asked him,
"When will you get Sylune back?"
"In the morning, Storm said." Belkram poured himself a goblet and drained most
of it at one gulp. "I imagine they're meeting to talk about what they must do
to defend the dale now that Elminster's gone."
"That's a meeting we must have, too," Itharr said, looking up. "Whither now,
for the three of us?"
"What have we to jaw about," Sharantyr asked with sudden fierceness as her
fingers worked on his stiff shoulders with iron tenderness, "until we've dealt
with the Malaugrym? Elminster gave us a task, and it's unfinished. Harpers—and
Knights of Myth Drannor— don't walk away from their duty. Not now, not ever!"
When she caught Belkram's look of wonder, she blushed, turning her head away.
"I'm sorry," Shar mumbled, her voice quavering for an instant. "I... his dying
. . . I'm too upset to make sense."
"No, Lady," Belkram said, advancing to take one of her hands in his own. He
knelt and kissed it in one smooth movement. "You make perfect sense—now, and
always."
Sharantyr turned her head away again from the rising fire she saw in his eyes,
and tried to blink away her sudden tears, tears that would not stop falling.
Uncaring crickets were chirping as the Bard of Shadowdale turned in at her
arched gate. She brushed past its roses and stumbled in her weariness. Sylune
drifted with silent grace at her shoulder.
The door ahead of them was open, and the lamps were lit. Storm sighed and
reached for her blade again, wondering if she really felt up to another fight
against
ALL SHADOWS FLED
some sinister Zhent intruder . . . then relaxed with a heavy sigh of relief
when she saw the short and familiar figure of Lhaeo come out to greet them.
"Tea is made, Ladies," Elminster's scribe said in a small, forlorn voice.
"Oh, Lhaeo," Storm said, touched, and held out her arms to him.
A moment later, the last prince of Tethyr was weeping into her breast,
clutching her as if she were his last anchor in a storm-racked sea. "El told
me I'd know if he died," he gasped when he could speak again, "and yet I don't
know! The touch of his mind is gone!" He burst into fresh tears, weeping
uncontrollably.
Storm stood in the moonlight, holding him in silence. There was nothing she
could say. Her silver hair bent over him as her own tears began to fall. They
wept together, and the ghostly form of Sylune hovered over them both, her
spectral hands reaching out to console ... in vain.
There was nothing at all she could do.
11
There's Alcuays Reoeuge
It was a bright morning in fair Shadowdale. The tower, the inn, and the
streets were still buzzing with talk of the disappearance, a day and a night
ago, of Adon and Midnight, the two prisoners convicted of the murder of
Elminster of Shadowdale. Some said they'd been spirited away by agents of
Zhentil Keep, lurking in the dale even now; others that they were archmages,
foul fiends, or Bane and Manshoon themselves, who wore false shapes and
escaped by magic as soon as they were bound in the dungeons. Shadowdale had
lost its greatest protector, a wise old uncle—albeit a cantankerous and
mischievous uncle—to just about everyone who'd lived in Shadowdale.
Nor was he the only man mourned in the dale. Many a family wept over sons or
fathers who would come back only on a shield, to be buried by an honor guard
led by the grim-faced lord of Shadowdale. No one could spare the time for full
mourning rites or long nights of grieving, however; there was too much that
had to be done.
Magic still spun wild in Faerun, and news of strife and god-caused devastation
came to Shadowdale with every new, heavily armed caravan. The Zhentarim could
strike again at any time, and Daggerdale was an open battlefield roamed by
hungry wolves, ores, and worse. To keep such perils at bay, the few warriors
still
ALL SHADOWS FLED
able to fight were standing guard on all four roads out of the dale, fervently
hoping not to see blackhelms in the distance.
In the dale, dead Zhents and horses lay everywhere, some half devoured by bold
night scavengers. The returned priests of Lathander were busily blessing the
dead to ensure that they would not rise undead to stalk Shadowdale in the
years to come. The old women of the dale were stripping the bodies of anything
that could be used again, and the foresters surveyed the burnt woods with an
eye to replanting.
Yestereve, six full carts piled high with weapons and helms had groaned up the
road to the tower. The clangor of their being stockpiled had gone on all
night, wherefore this morning Lord Mourngrym had a headache that felt as if
someone were repeatedly stabbing a dagger through the top of his head.
"Why must I get up?" he asked Shaerl. "I'm lord of this dale. Can't I lie abed
just once in a year?"
"You did," she replied sweetly, "three months back. We were trying for a
daughter, remember?"
Mourngrym growled something wordless about her cheerfulness and rolled up to a
sitting position on the edge of their bed. His arms and ribs were gold and
purple with bruises, and two raw scars marked his forearm where Zhent blades
had split through his best armor.
Shaerl hissed in sympathy as she traced one of those scars with a slim finger.
She handed her lord a tankard of steaming bitterroot tea.
Mourngrym sipped it, made the same disgusted face he always did, and rose,
handing the tankard back to her. "Here—you drink the stuff. It should cure
your confounded cheerfulness!"
He took from its peg the silken robe she'd made for him. As always, he admired
the blazons she'd sewn so carefully. The arms of the dale shone on one breast,
his own arms on the other, and a target prominently on the back—their private
joke: he'd been her target when
ED GREENWOOD
Cormyr sent her to Shadowdale to gain influence here.
Mourngrym smiled at the robe in his arms, leaned against the smooth-carved
corner post of the bed, and mouthed a silent prayer to Tymora. Swinging the
robe around his shoulders, he made his way across the bedchamber.
He winced as each step made his head pound—he hadn't had that much to drink
last night, surely—but doggedly pursued his goal: the curtained archway that
led into the morning room. There he would break his fast on the great table
whose glass top covered gloriously hued maps of the dales. He loved those
maps, a wedding gift from the Rowanmantles, and peering at their exquisite
details never failed to cheer him.
He shouldered through the curtains, sniffing the welcome aroma of sausages and
melted cheese and eggs on bread, and froze midstride.
"Storm! Well met and welcome, but what are you doing sitting in the middle of
the table?—Oh, war council time again, is it?"
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled at him and tossed her head in greeting; her
silver hair cascaded down one shoulder, and Mourngrym swallowed at her beauty,
remembering the last time she'd sat on the table, wearing rather less, and the
wild war council that had followed then. It was too early in the morning for
all this... .
Eyeing the sausages on the platter beside Storm's boots, the lord of
Shadowdale went to the long sideboard, took up a flask of firewine, and
drained it at a single gulp.
When his eyes came back into focus, Storm was shaking her head. "You'll regret
that, you know."
"My head already feels like a blacksmith's anvil," Mourngrym told her. "Is
there any more of this stuff about, do you know?"
"End drawer down the window end," Storm and Shaerl said together, then broke
into chuckles (Storm) and giggles (Shaerl) of mirth. Mourngrym gave them
ALL SHADOWS FLED
both a look of long-suffering disgust and went to the drawer indicated.
"It's too much," he told the Realms at large. "No man should have to deal with
such cheery females. Haven't either of you heard of respectful silence?"
There was no reply. Mourngrym had taken the decanter back to the table, sipped
from it without bothering with a flagon, and lifted his fork to deal with the
sausages before the silence registered. He looked up— into Storm's impish
eyes, dancing with mirth as she regarded him, lips pressed tightly together.
He shot a look along the table to Shaerl, who had seated herself with dignity
and was regarding him, chin on hand, in equally amused silence.
Mourngrym opened his mouth to say something, but closed it again and shrugged.
"That's certainly more peaceful," he told the first sausage as he raised it.
"Unhand that sausage!" a voice bellowed from somewhere very near.
Mourngrym choked, tried to spring up, arms flailing, and toppled sideways,
gabbling for breath.
He and the chair met the flagstone floor with a solid, head-ringing crash amid
an explosion of laughter. Mourngrym found himself then face to face with
Rathan Thentraver.
The stout priest was crawling out from under the table. He winked, deftly
plucked the sausage off Mourngrym's fork, bit into it, and said, "Umm. Very
good! Thank you for offering me this excellent viand!"
"I am going to kill someone," Mourngrym announced calmly to the ceiling, "and
probably soon. How long have you been under here?"
"Not long," Rathan rumbled cheerfully. He emerged. "How long do you plan to
sleep in every morning? Not turning into a vampire, are you?"
"No," Mourngrym told him shortly, and rolled to his feet. "No fangs to you."
"Ah," Storm said, "that's better. I was afraid you were
163
ED GREENWOOD
going to play the grim stone-headed tyrant all day." As she spoke, the wall
gong chimed.
Mourngrym looked at it sourly and sat down again. "And what does that
signify?"
" "Tis the signal that you've finished your morning feast, my lord," Shaerl
said sweetly, "and that yet another Realms-shaking war council is about to
begin."
"But I haven't fin—" Mourngrym began. He snatched his platter to his chest
just before Storm plucked it away. He brandished his fork at her. "Keep back,
woman!"
There was laughter from the doorway. Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers stood
there, staring delightedly into the room. "Now that's a sight worth walking
here from Berdusk to see! We battle the Bard of Shadowdale with blades . . .
but great lords use sausage forks on her!"
Mourngrym sighed, backed away to the sideboard, and set his plate down.
Picking up a sausage, he pointed at the chairs ranged around the table and
said, Tray enter, Lords, Ladies, and Gentles, and be seated. There, there, and
there .. . ah, and I believe that seat's available too . . . very good." He
glanced at the gathering: Knights, Storm, a swirling radiance by her shoulder
that must be Sylune, the two Harper rangers, Shaerl, and—who was missing?
Elminster, of course, and Lhaeo . . . not surprising. He bit into the sausage
thoughtfully. Ah!
"This room's too quiet by far," he announced grandly. "Where's Term?"
"I thought you'd never ask," the smooth voice of the thief replied from the
doorway. "While you've been snoring, I've been working. Pretty soft being lord
of a dale, isn't it?"
"You?" Mourngrym snorted, making a rude gesture with what was left of his
sausage. "Working?"
"Indeed," Torm replied with dignity, "I have just returned from a dawn foray—a
bold and brazen foray, let
ALL SHADOWS FLED
me say, fraught with peril and shining bravery—into the road camp just south
of Voonlar, looking for certain things our departed Zhentish friends may have
left behind!"
"More women?" Merith asked slyly. "Torm, how many can one man have?"
"The answer, Sir Elf, would surprise you," Torm said loftily, "but that is a
matter for converse at some more relaxed time. I speak of the Central Blade's
pack train . .. sixteen wagons of it, at any rate."
"Thieving still?" Shaerl sighed. "Torm, in case you haven't noticed, there's a
war on! Must you indulge in petty thievery?"
Term's eyebrows rose. " 'Petty thievery,' Lady? You wound me to the quick!
What did you think your surviving troops would eat? And be paid with? Starving
men"—a dagger spun from his hand to transfix one of Mourngrym's sausages, and
the thief jerked on the silken cord affixed to the hilt and snatched the food
away from Mourngrym's hasty grab—"who feel they've been cheated tend to make
unsafe guardians, particularly when they're also well-trained warriors."
"Belt up, well-trained warrior," Florin suggested kindly as Torm reeled in a
dusty sausage and bit into it with satisfaction. The ranger looked around the
table to address them. "We're here to talk some things out and decide how best
to proceed, given the perils abroad in the land and . .. our lack of
Elminster." In the silence that followed, he added, "In the absence of the Old
Mage, Sylune is the eldest here, and should speak first."
"My thanks, Florin—I think," the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale said dryly. "For
my part, I have unfinished business Elminster set me to. Sister, will you hand
my stone to Itharr of the Harpers? He is the only one of our Rangers Three who
hasn't borne me yet."
"I will," Storm said gravely, drawing the chain from her neck and rising to
carry the stone around the table.
"The Rangers Three? Sounds like a chartered adventuring band," Torm commented.
Itharr took the stone
ED GREENWOOD
carefully, a little awed. The thief added, "Or a traveling minstrel show."
Torm, dearest," Sharantyr said sweetly, "Tell me: do these idiocies just
tumble out whenever you open your mouth—or do you actually sit there and think
them up?"
"Thinking?" Torm frowned at her. "Who said anything about thinking? Kill
first, then loot . . . and the thinking part is that unpleasant shouting
business at the end when it all has to be divided. It makes brains hurt."
"Mine certainly does," Mourngrym said with feeling, "but I believe Sylune
still has the high tongue in this round of converse."
"For my part," Sylune responded, "there is no more to say. I am a thing of
ghosts and shadows. My will is bound to duty."
Tes, but what would you like to do?"
"Find my sister the Simbul and beseech her to do as Elminster did," the Witch
of Shadowdale said very quietly. "That is, make me a new body."
There was an embarrassed silence at the raw longing in her voice. Florin
stepped into it by saying, "Next senior among us is my lady, Dove. What say
you?"
Dove smiled at him and looked around the table. "My first duty—our first
duty—must be to defend the folk of the Dales against brigands, Zhents, roving
monsters, and the like. Otherwise, there'll be no crops, and starvation come
winter. Time of Troubles or no, the work of daily life must go on. We have to
find all the Zhents scrambling around the woods and deal with them, discover
who or what else is lurking about to prey on our people, find and tend all the
wounded, and rebuild what was ruined in the fighting."
"Well, that takes care of the council," Torm said lightly. "Let's be getting
on with it. Mourngrym can make us all more sausages—I'm certainly hungry
enough—and we can meet again when the snows fall."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Rathan? Gag him, will you?" Illistyl snapped scornfully. "To think that I
once bedded thatr
"Once? From what I recall, twi—"
"Enough, Torm," Dove said firmly, "or have you forgotten the fish bucket?"
"The fish bucket?" Mourngrym asked, leaning forward with interest. "Is this
some sort of torture device fine upstanding noble lords can use on annoying
thieves?"
"After he made a particularly crude remark," Jhessail explained, "Dove held
Torm's head under water in the bucket of live fish she was bringing to the
tower for evenfeast.. . until he ran out of bubbles."
"Ah, that explains what happened to his wits," Merith said delightedly. "They
got soaked through and grew mildew. . . ."
"Gods in their palaces," Belkram said to Itharr in low tones, "are all their
council meetings like this?"
"Oh, no, no," Storm assured him cheerfully. "Best manners this morn . . .
because of you. Usually we just shout Torm down and get on, and no one speaks
in turn."
"Strange you should mention that," Florin said with a smile, "as seniority
brings us now to you."
"Aye, indeed," Storm said with a smile. "I concur with my sister Dove, but be
aware that aside from Shar, Sylune, and my two Harpers here"—Belkram and
Itharr smiled around the table and swept mock bows—"this assembly is just
going to have to abandon chasing Malaugrym for the time being."
"Malaugrym?"
"The shapeshifters who attacked us in the tent, the night before the battle in
Mistledale," Sharantyr explained.
"Those weren't doppelgangers?"
"No, something far worse."
"Oh . . . one of Mourngrym's speeches?"
"Stow it," Florin ordered with a grin and a sigh.
167
ED GREENWOOD
"Because some among us can't resist the urges to be clever, these little
get-togethers are always so much fun."
"Hold hard," Shaerl said, leaning over the table with a frown. "Do I hear you
rightly? Chasing Malaugrym? Are there a band of them?"
"A family, actually," Storm explained softly. "An ancient clan who kill those
who know about them—so guard your lips. For centuries Elminster has slain any
of them who dared to enter the Realms."
"So with him gone . .."
"Chasing may no longer be necessary. They'll probably find us soon enough,"
Sharantyr observed.
"Is there any way—short of magic that may go wild, and blow this tower apart,
or cover us all in cow dung— of knowing they're not here in this room, right
now, taking the shape of one of us?" Torm asked sharply.
"No," Storm and Dove said in quiet unison.
"Well," Rathan joked, "You did come in late, Torm.. . ."
"Oh, no, you don't," Torm said warningly. "No one's opening me up to see if
I'm really a scaly monster!" There was suddenly a dagger in his fingertips,
and he waved it meaningfully.
"You're safe, Torm," Jhessail said with a smile. "No one could impersonate
that debonair manner, that outrageous tongue, that—"
"Utter stupidity," fllistyl told the ceiling.
"As to the internal defense of the dale, and helping our folk set things to
rights," Storm added, "journeyman Harpers will shortly gather in Shadowdale
from all directions. To prevent the Zhents and... others from sneaking agents
in among them, they all will report to Dove, who will cast a spell that marks
them with a visible badge, a spell that contains nasty surprises for anyone
trying to duplicate it. To get such a badge, of course, the Harpers will
submit to mind-reading magic, allowing us to weed out ambitious Malaugrym."
1(58
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"So this band of confirmed Harpers helps rebuild the dale," Torm said,
"freeing us to do—what?"
"Ride patrol through the Elven Court woods, southeastern Daggerdale, and the
other lands around Shadow-dale, scouring it of brigands and monsters, giving
us warning of attack from Zhentil Keep, Daggerdale, or Hillsfar. I've heard
rumors of fell beasts leaving the ruins of Myth Drannor to roam the woods, and
even talk of some wealthy merchants in Sembia hiring small armies in hopes of
seizing a dale or two as private estates."
"What?" Torm laughed. "Armies, yes . . . but ambitious Sembian merchants? Show
me the fool who'd dare challenge the famous Knights of Myth Drannor!"
"Look in yon mirror," Jhessail advised him in dry tones, pointing across the
morning room. "You challenge us all too often."
"Vile slander!" Torm said severely, waving a finger at her. "May the gods look
down and—"
"Gift thee with an egg, valiant Torm," Shaerl said. She swept a peppered
plover egg up from Mourngrym's plate and thrust it whole into Torm's mouth.
"NnnmumpA," he protested.
"I agree completely," Rathan replied earnestly, patting the thief's hand (the
one without the dagger). "Thy every word is as a pearl of wisdom, glistening
among the dull pebbles of other oratory!"
"Oh, please" Illistyl said. "You're as bad as he is!"
Rathan gave her a hard look. "I prefer to say "as good as,' young miss—'tis
more charitable, far."
"If the free entertainment could subside for a moment," Merith said patiently,
"perhaps we can hear the rest of Storm's plans."
Storm grinned at him. "We'll send two patrols equipped for long forays. The
Knights will ride to Daggerdale; the Rangers Three with Sylune will circle
Voonlar, the woods near Myth Drannor, and Mistledale. Both bands should make
sure the Zhents haven't rallied anyone else in the south and deal with any
trouble
ED GREENWOOD
before it reaches our battle-riven dale. The dalefolk are too exhausted to
deal with even sneak thieves."
"Fine, sounds sensible. Let's be doing it," Illisty! said, rising from the
table. "I weary of talk. Merith, have you found me a horse?"
"What's wrong with your palfrey?" Mourngrym asked.
"Killed in the battle," Storm informed him curtly. Illistyl nodded, her eyes
bright with sudden tears, but said nothing.
Across the table, Torm was in full flight again, leaning around Belkram to
smile at Sharantyr.
"Good, my lady," the thief said with a leer, his eyes bright, "I could see my
way clear to ably guard so beautiful a flower of the dale! Wouldst thou permit
me to accompany thee on patrol?"
Sharantyr almost smiled. "I've grown used to Belkram and Itharr, thanks," she
said crisply, taking the arms of the two Harper rangers seated on either side
of her.
"I did not mean merely myself, Lady," Torm said, his manner suddenly serious.
"Three blades and a disembodied voice isn't enough battle might for what you
might well run into."
"Ill be going with them, Torm," Storm said quietly.
Heads turned in surprise all around the table, but the Bard of Shadowdale was
looking at the three rangers. "If you'll have me?" she asked quietly.
"Right gladly, Lady," Belkram said, glancing quickly at his companions for
confirmation, and receiving it.
A frown had come onto Mourngrym's face, "Torm may have a point about strength
of arms. I was thinking of sending you Knights out on the first patrol east;
there's word of a Zhent mageling rallying forty or more Zhen-tilar in the
woods."
"I'll look forward to meeting them," Storm said in silken tones. More than one
person around that council table shivered at the sound of the bard's voice.
170
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Are we agreed?" Mourngrym asked, standing up and looking down the table.
There was a general affirmative chorus, and he said briskly, "Good—now get
gone, all of you, so I can bathe and get dressed and have some fooxi that
clever Knights don't snatch off my plate!"
Chuckles and mocking salutes answered him.
Mourngrym made for his bedchamber, shook his head, and reflected—not for the
first time—how untenable a position he held, the junior member of a band of
adventurers who handed him the lordship of a dale after they were finished
with it, but stayed around to drive him witless!
Growling faintly at the thought, he pushed back through the curtains, Shaerl
in his wake.
The morning room cleared quickly. When it was quite empty, something moved
under the table—something that looked like old and dark wood, but flowed
downward to the floor, peeling itself free of the table's underside. It
stretched like a hungry snake, slithered out from under the furniture, and
rose swiftly, taking on the shape and appearance of one of the tower servants.
The Malaugrym glanced quickly around, but no one was in sight. The servant who
was not a servant paused for a long moment to survey the table admiringly.
Ahorga had always liked maps.
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 22
The embers crackled and glowed ruby red. The two women sat with their backs to
it, facing outward on watch, listening to the faint scuttlings and hootings
that mark any forest by night. They were in the Elven Court woods, well south
of Voonlar, most of the way through their first night on patrol.
Itharr and Belkram had turned over watch duties to them not long ago, and were
well and truly asleep,
* 171 *
ED GREENWOOD
snoring faintly into their cloaks.
"How many nights have you spent thus?" Sharantyr asked quietly.
Behind her, Storm laughed softly. "Hundreds."
The ghostly tresses of Sylune turned, from where her disembodied head floated
at Sharantyr's shoulder. "Thousands, Sister," she corrected.
"That's right—emphasize how old we are," Storm said, amused. "I try not to
make people feel uncomfortable or lessened in any way."
"I was the Witch of Shadowdale, remember? Making people wary of me was the
best way to hold power over them without ever harming anyone," Sylune replied.
Sharantyr sighed. "You seem so carefree," she said, shifting the naked long
sword that lay across her thighs so that moonlight caught it at one end, and a
faint red glow from the fire touched the other. She flicked it idly, watching
the play of light on the steel. "Is it because you've both seen it all
before?"
"Partly, Shar," Storm replied, "and partly because we've learned to try to
enjoy everything, from being whipped in chains as a slave to being wooed by
well-endowed princes."
"To clinging to the spar of a ship breaking apart in a storm," Sylune put in,
sounding amused. "To lying paralyzed under the probes of a drow mage trying to
determine if your powers lie in organs he can remove, or if youll have to be
bred to drow to give them your abilities."
Sharantyr shivered. "Don't speak of drow, please ..."
"My apologies, Shar," the ghostly head beside her said quickly. "We both spoke
of moments from our own experiences—I forgot that you'd been a captive of the
drow, too."
Sharantyr turned her head. "You were a slave?"
"For years," the Bard of Shadowdale told her. "Not entirely bad years, either
. . . though I never did develop any enjoyment for being whipped."
"What do you mean, 'not entirely bad years'?" Shar
172
ALL SHADOWS FLED
asked incredulously. "How can you enjoy anything about being a slave?"
"That's what we were trying to say, you see," Sylune said softly. "It's not
what the gods hand you in life that matters so much, nor what your strivings
achieve or fail in the attempt. Whatever befalls, the best way to view life is
to savor every moment of it, no matter how sordid or unpleasant... for one
thing, the gods give us all only a certain span of time, and time wasted—in
misery, despair, drunkenness, or casual inattention—is time gone forever."
"I see what you're saying," Sharantyr said slowly, "but you'll forgive me if I
take some time getting to enjoy fighting in great battles, or falling into
cesspits, or listening to Torm."
Trying not to laugh aloud, Storm shook with deep, bubbling laughter for a long
time before she found breath enough to speak again. "Well said," were her
first words. "Do you feel like talking about what befell in the Castle of
Shadows?"
Shar chuckled helplessly. "I-I suppose so. What do you want to know?"
"Do you recall Elminster's burning the bodies of the Malaugrym you slew, back
at the ruined manor in Daggerdale?" Sylune asked.
Shar nodded, but realized they couldn't see the gesture in the dark, and said
cautiously, "Yes."
"He wasn't simply being tidy," the ghostly figure told her. "He was using a
spell that destroys the bodies of the recently dead even as it yields up their
last few moments of thought. In one of the Malaugrym was a strong desire to
slay you—because another Malaugrym, who did not enter Faerun at the time,
wanted you as his mate. Another of the dead Malaugrym was reluctant to attack
you for the same reason; the Malaugrym who favored you was his ally."
Sharantyr drew a deep, shuddering breath. "I see. You're wondering if I pine
after some Malaugrym lord,
173
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
or perhaps even carry a little shapeshifter-to-be within."
"No," Storm said sharply. "Even if either or both of those conditions were
true, they are your affairs. We merely meant that it's apparent to us all that
some adventures befell all three of you that went beyond 'See Malaugrym, slay
Malaugrym, run run run/ "
Shar giggled. "That sounds elegant."
"Indeed," Sylune agreed dryly. "So give, Lady Shar-antyr. What did you learn
in the Castle of Shadows? And I don't mean about Malaugrym, or shapeshifting,
or the nature of ever-shifting Shadowhome. I mean about yourself."
"About myself?"
"About Belkram and Itharr, then," Storm said gently. "How are my two
half-trained Harpers?"
"Very good companions and able protectors. Belkram has a touch of Torm in him,
I think."
Shar heard Storm's silent amusement at that observation, and went on, "Itharr
is quieter, and there's a darkness in him. H-He needs to kill, sometimes."
"And how would you look upon spending several years adventuring with them
both?" the lady bard asked. "Just the three of you, not a part of the Harpers
or part of the Knights of Myth Drannor."
"I'd enjoy it, I hope," Shar replied, then added quickly, "but I fear the
Shadowmasters will soon strike back, and—"
"And?" Sylune asked quietly.
"And I'll lose one or both of them," Sharantyr said. Her voice sank almost to
a whisper.
"You are fond of them both, then?" Storm asked quietly.
"Aye, I—" Sharantyr's voice sharpened. "Why are you asking me this? Do you
want me to shout from the tower turrets that I love them?"
"No, Shar," Sylune said softly. "We want you to admit it to yourself."
In the little silence that followed, Belkram snorted
174
softly in his sleep, and at the comical sound something inside Sharantyr
suddenly rose into her throat, and she wept as quietly as she could.
The radiance of Sylune was suddenly all around her, and she felt a gentle,
chill touch on her forehead. The ghostly kiss left a tingling behind, and her
somehow calmer.
She sniffed away the last of her tears, and said in a small voice, "I'm so
afraid of losing them."
That's why I came along," Storm said softly, "to lend one more sword to the
fray and make all of your chances for survival that much better."
"Malaugrym are everywhere!" Sylune intoned in tones of mock horror.
"Don't say that!" Sharantyr told her fiercely, turning her head to stare into
eyes that were two serene white wraith fires.
"Why not? Face your fears as you should face everything else in life—openly.
Name them, and they become things you can handle, after a fashion."
Sharantyr laughed, a little ruefully. "I didn't expect to spend my time
staring into the night talking about my loves and fears," she told the two
age-old sisters.
"Why not, Shar? What could we possibly talk about— in all our lives—that's
more important than what we love and fear?"
Sembia, Flamerule 22
"I love to smell their fear," the man with the head of a panther said, raising
bloody jaws from a villager who would never again flee screaming from
anything.
"Now how could I tell that?" replied the man whose arms split into tentacles.
A choking merchant struggled in the coils of two of those tentacles.
The Malaugrym shook the merchant, much as a
JL
ED GREENWOOD
hunting cat shakes a rat in its jaws, and tightened his tentacles with lazy
strength, tearing the man's head off. Blood sprayed in all directions as the
corpse convulsed, wriggling in its final agony.
"Well? Are you going to eat this one?" Bralatar asked, his hands lengthening
into talons to tear the man's body apart. He licked his lips in anticipation
of the feast.
Lorgyn took one bite, then tossed the headless body aside. "No. I'll find
something a little more succulent," He looked across the night-shrouded garden
where they stood, at a building whose distinctive red lanterns marked it as a
brothel. "In there."
"No wonder old Elminster wanted Faerun for himself!" Bralatar said, watching
his comrade reach up with a small forest of tentacles and swarm up the side of
the building. "It's a neverending love-feast and brawl!"
"Aye," Lorgyn called down, heedless of whose attention they might alert, "only
better!"
A man's head suddenly appeared out of one window. "Hoy!" he snarled,
"what're—doppelgangers! Call the Watc—*
A tentacle descended in a slap that carried the weight of falling stone,
breaking the man's neck as a child snaps a twig. He fell onto the sill, and
said no more.
The Malaugrym's tentacles were busy at a higher window. He reached in to a bed
where a fat merchant was rolling among slippery silk sheets, pretending he
couldn't find the giggling owner of the bed, wriggling around beneath them.
"Not here!" the merchant hollered, clutching at a pillow. "Where's she gone?
Oh, sweet merciful gods, help me . . . my partner'll be furious when he learns
how much I spent for an hour of pleasure, and then couldn't find the wench for
the size and opulence of her bed! Are there other men lost under here, I
wonder? That wagon of mine that went missing last moon, perhaps? I'll just
176
ALL SHADOWS FLED
have to see! May—"
"Oh, be silentr Lorgyn snarled in exasperation, snapping out a tentacle to
wrap around the man's jaws.
The fat merchant suddenly grew a mouth as wide as a horse and caught the
tentacle; an extra mouth appeared in his forehead and hissed, "Get your own
plaything!"
Lorgyn recoiled in amazement. "Who—?"
The grotesque mouth spat the tentacle back at Lorgyn and shrank away to
nothingness, dwindling into features the Malaugrym at the window recognized.
"Lunquar!"
"The same," the older Shadowmaster replied, ignoring the sudden terrified
scream from the bedclothes beneath him. He pinned the woman down without
sparing her a glance, and said, "I've been watching you two break necks and
hurl bodies about for days now; why such a bold rampage?"
"Fun, Lunquar, fun!" Lorgyn said exultantly, using one long tentacle to snatch
up the man whose neck he'd just broken and shake him as a trophy. "See?" There
was a scream from the window below.
"That's just what I mean," the Shadowmaster on the bed said. "You left that
one dangling half out of a window! Hear the screaming now!"
"So?"
"So why rouse half of Faerun when a little subtlety could win you thrones?"
"What fun is that?" the voice of Bralatar came floating up to them. "You can
rule just as well through fear ... in fact, whenever we've the time to spare,
we should spread a little more fear!"
"Your style, perhaps; not mine," the older Shadow-master replied. "I'm saving
my fury for when I meet up with one of Mystra's Chosen!"
"Aye," Lorgyn agreed, his voice menacingly soft. His eyes glowed a sudden
emerald green in the gloom. "If you want reasons for rampaging, there's always
... revenge."
177
Whistling, the WizoRd Mef His End
Sembia, Flamemle 23
Birds called and fluttered in a wood where moss grew green on old, proud
trees, untouched by a woodsman's axe for three hundred years. A stone wall as
high as six men kept errant axes out, for the wood was part of a private
estate in the fair uplands of Sembia—an estate that saw few visitors, and even
fewer uninvited ones.
Yet one can never be too careful, and trolls may lurk anywhere. So it was that
the war dogs Warhorn and Bolder wandered the grounds diligently, carrying two
hundred pounds of taut muscle each behind their spiked war collars. Their jaws
closed often on squirrels, and they suffered nothing larger than that to
live—except men they knew.
No man they knew smelled quite like the peculiar odor now in Warhorn's
nostrils. The mighty war dog growled a deep warning to Bolder and advanced
cautiously toward the smell, questing from side to side like a soldier.
Bolder caught up to him, stiffened, and rubbed his flank alongside Warhorn to
signify he'd smelled the scent, too. They went forward soundlessly together on
Aix SHADOWS FLRU
stiff, alert legs, lips drawn back to bare huge teeth.
The smell grew strong indeed, prickling in their throats. Of a sudden, they
broke apart and rushed around either side of a great shadowtop tree, a forest
giant big enough to hide four dogs behind. They went with eyes aflame and jaws
agape, feet scrabbling on the mossy turf—and vanished.
All that the listening birds heard was two wet snapping sounds, then a brief
thudding, and shortly afterward, a rustling of leaves as something large
climbed the forest giant.
"Never fear, never fear,
For my smiles are all for thee."
A man in a bloodied apron sang ere he struck the brass gong that hung by the
door.
"So come away, lady fair, And we will married be!"
He set down the metal basin of meat scraps, wiped his hands on his hips, and
waited—but the expected hungry canines did not come.
The man struck the gong again. "Warhorn? Bolder? Gone deaf, have ye?"
The words had just left his lips when the two war dogs raced into view,
running hard . . . and yet without their usual fluid grace . . . almost as if
they weren't used to loping. The man stared hard at them for a moment. He
crouched down and asked merrily, "So what have ye been into, my hearties?
Highsummer mushrooms again?"
He leaned forward to pat Warhorn, and barely had time to notice a strange
golden fire in the old dog's eyes before the tentacles took him. Snakelike
they coiled up his patting arm and shook him, and he was still struggling for
breath to shout when they broadened and
179
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
slapped over his nose and mouth.
His frantic struggles were brief. His slayer rose slowly to an impossible
height for a dog and held the dangling corpse upright. The other dog cocked
its head for a moment, surveying the limp body. The canine form began to melt
and flow, shifting slowly into an exact duplicate of the unfortunate servant.
Delicate tentacles undid the apron and held it out while Bralatar continued
surveying the dead man critically, noting tiny scars, pimples, and precisely
where hair grew. He shifted himself to match. He took the apron, careful to
knot it as the man had worn it, and announced, "Done."
Lorgyn nodded and passed over the man's belt and ring of keys as he sank back
down into dog shape atop the dead man. His tentacles coiled and squeezed,
trembling with sudden effort.
When he was done, a bloody, boneless mass was all that was left of the
servant. Tentacles dragged the gory thing behind the nearest tree and became
digging claws. Soon all trace of the murder was gone.
Bralatar hummed the tune the man had been singing as he went to a wrought and
fluted metal gate. One faithful war dog trotted at his heels.
In the small garden beyond, svelte nymphs and winged women of weathered stone
posed in frozen wan-tonness among fountains and pools and floating lilies . .
. and Dorgan Sundyl strode through them unseeing, bored to the depths of his
being.
His muscles gleamed with oil and the vigor of this morning's workout, and his
uniform shone back the sun. A bejewelled sword swung at his hip, and his
movements had a lazy grace as one long-booted foot glided forward, followed—as
always—by the other, taking him around a grassy path that he'd walked a
thousand thousand times before. He would dearly love something to fight.
Dorgan sometimes prayed to the gods to bring an in-
truder into the garden—a man that he could bait a while before engaging him in
furious swordplay, and subsequently slaying him and presenting him to the
master. Even a little man would do.
He would have been surprised indeed to learn that the gods—the thoughtful
gods—were finally, this morn, about to grant his wish.
It took three keys before Bralatar found the one that opened the gate—and by
then, the magnificent-looking guard in the garden beyond was suspicious.
"How, now? What ails Areld?" Dorgan mused aloud as he strode toward the gate,
hand going to sword and eyes flicking watchfully about to be sure that only
one man stood there, not a concealed band of brigands.
Another thing . . . the dogs were never allowed in the garden! What was old
Warhorn playing at?
"Areld?" he challenged, sword grating. "What befalls?"
Areld swayed, one hand on the opened gate—but fell, toppling forward into the
grass without a sound. Dorgan raced to stand over him, blocking passage
through the gate, looking warily around for an archer or anyone waiting to
rush in ... but the woods beyond were empty of all but birds. Warhorn stood,
patiently watching him.
Dorgan held the sword up between him and the dog, point out, just in case, and
bent over Areld. "Are you sick, man? D—"
Those were the last words he ever spoke. Something slammed into the small of
his back and drove him into a sprawling fall onto the servant. Arms of flesh
curved up to envelop his head, smothering him with ruthless efficiency.
Soon after, Dorgan and Areld carried a limp, pulped mass back out into the
grounds, to the base of a certain tree where the turf was torn as if by a
recent upheaval. "You should have dug a large pit," Areld said with dark
humor. "I'm sure we'll be able to fill it if this mage is as suspicious minded
as most. There'll be beasts and human guards every few paces ahead of us now
to keep
ISO
181
ED GREENWOOD
intruders from ever breathing the same air as Lord Magnificent the
Spell-Hurler."
Retracing their steps, the guard and the servant passed through the garden,
coming at last to the only way they could see into the castle: a stone door
carved into the shape of a snarling human face, with two outstretched hands
beneath it to serve as handles.
"Warded, or Fm a war dog," the man who was not Dorgan muttered. "I don't like
the look of those hands."
"So we slide past," the one who was not Areld murmured, extending a
ribbon-thin tentacle to point. "Here—see?"
It took some time to flatten themselves out into creeping things thin enough
to slip through a tiny gap between the crumbling stone and the old, slowly
warping doorframe, with its carvings of satyrs and bunches of grapes and
flirtatious sprites, but they passed through without incident, and without
being seen.
They stood in a high, vaulted hall whose open bronze doors showed another,
loftier hall, with a gallery at its far end, and many doors opening off it
here, there, and everywhere. To the left, and nearby (by the smell) was the
kitchen; the location of other features they could only guess at.
Wherefore the two men dwindled hurriedly back into the shapes of the two war
dogs and padded into the hall with apparent aimlessness, sniffing as they
roamed. The doors they passed were closed, but a broad, red-carpeted spiral
stair ascended at the far end of the hall, and up this they went—on the theory
that most wizards like to look out loftily over the lands around.
Partway up its ascent, the stair paused at a sunny landing, and Bolder slunk
over to the small forest of ferny plants there. He peered through, uttering a
short whufto signal Warhorn that he'd found something of interest.
The two Malaugrym had retained their own eyes, far keener than those of a dog,
and could readily see a
ALL SHADOWS FLED
small, slender, rather plain stone tower outside.
The tower was ringed by a moat over which tiny lightnings of amethyst hue
flickered from time to time— some warding magic, no doubt. The moat in turn
was surrounded by a strip of lawn. Flagstone paths led to the edge of the
moat, but there was no sign of any drawbridge, and the paths also ran in a
great arc in both directions, around the tower and out of view, flanking the
walls of a gigantic building . . . the one in which they stood.
"Rich indeed, this wizard," Bolder growled. "Look: this house goes all the way
around."
Warhorn growled a wordless reply of exasperation. How long was it going to
take to find a safe way out of this vast house, into the inner garden with the
tower?
Not long at all, as it turned out. A two-headed panther, black and deadly,
stalked into view on the circular lawn, and a door swung open as if it were
expected. They saw a man, a goad in his hand, standing in the open door, and
the great cat moved fluidly toward him.
"Feeding time for everyone," Bolder grunted. They turned away from the window
to hurry down the stairs.
A little distance along the passage they saw two women carrying bundles of
linen. The maids frowned at them but did nothing beyond exchanging the
question: "What are the dogs doing in here, I wonder?"
Wagging their tails, the dogs passed on by, proceeding to a place where a
momentary shift of a paw into a human hand opened doors that were not locked,
skirted a strong smell of cat (they heard a questioning growl from the other
side of a door they left closed), and found their way to the inner garden. No
one shouted an alarm as the dogs pawed the door open and stepped out onto the
lawn.
Strong magic tingled around them, and they looked this way and that in some
haste. The lawn seemed deserted.
A huge, curved stone bench adorned the edge of the
ED GREENWOOD
moat, and beyond it Bralatar saw what he was looking for: the top arc of an
old, massive grating in the tower wall, moat water lapping into it. A privy
chute.
"Come," he said. He headed straight across the lawn. On the edge of the moat
he shifted shape to grow flippers and tentacles, and heard Lorgyn's snort of
alarm behind him as the stone bench suddenly shuddered and rose, stretching
out hammerlike arms. A golem!
By then Bralatar was in the inky water, and too busy to worry about guardians
on land: what felt like large hungry eels with teeth like daggers were
savaging him. He grew tentacles, thrust one down an unseen gullet, and
expanded, tossing bony spines out and through his foe until the water turned a
dull red and the biting went away. He served another eel with same tactic, and
another. By then, massive stone arms were crashing down into the water, and
Lorgyn was splashing frantically to keep clear of their strength.
Bralatar made an eel-thing of himself and wriggled through the grating,
ignoring a few nips from another unseen moat dweller. The stone chute ahead of
him was as slimy and noisome as he'd expected, but rose clear of the water
straight away. He wormed up it hastily, becoming a snakelike ribbon as he went
in case the wizard was thorough—or crazed—enough to have traps partway up a
dung chute.
Behind him, Lorgyn splashed around for a breath or two more before he was
clear of the water. Bralatar spared him no attention, but spiraled steadily up
the shaft, sending feelers ahead to probe for traps. Somewhere above them,
someone was cheerfully whistling a very old bawdy tune.
He found nothing, but as his most cautiously questing tentacle rose a trifle
up out of the privy seat to peer into the dark chamber beyond, a calm,
soulless female voice said: "Turn back," and a radiance began to grow around
the top of the shaft. The whistling broke off abruptly.
184
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Hurry!" Bralatar snapped, placing suckers on the stone around him and heaving
hard. He catapulted up out of the shaft like some sort of flying squid, and
thumped to the floor; he'd not yet begun to grow when a second thump heralded
Lorgyn's arrival.
"Now who can that be?" an annoyed voice came to their ears through the chamber
door. It sounded very near, and approaching. The mage was almost upon them!
Lorgyn laid a tentacle on Bralatar's shoulder and hissed, "Distract him—those
two women in the green tapestry room at the brothel; unclad, holding hands,
and amazed at somehow ending up here. .. ."
They shifted shapes with lightning speed, twisting, writhing, and arching like
maddened things—and were done, linking their slim fingers together and
adopting amazed and fearful expressions just as the door opened by itself, and
a balding, beak-nosed man peered in at them over a leveled wand.
"By the Seven Mysteries, who are you?" he gasped.
"Please, sir," the blonde woman breathed, entreaty in her green eyes, "where
are we? What place is this?"
The wizard dragged his eyes up from the ivory curves of her bare body,
swallowed, and blinked.
"You're in my tower—the Tower of Mortoth," he said gruffly. "Er, that's me."
He took a step into the room. "Perhaps you've heard of me?"
The taller of the two women parted her raven tresses to display a figure fully
as spectacular as her companion's, and husked, "Nay, Lord . . . but pray, tell
us about yourself. Pleasing great men is our business—and our pleasure."
And as Mortoth goggled at her in astonishment, two tentacles appeared over the
shoulder of the blonde maid and shot out with terrifying speed. One grasped
the wand, twisted, and snatched—and it flew from the stumbling wizard's
bruised fingers.
"Rivals!" the wizard snarled as he caught his
18$
ED GREENWOOD
balance. Blue-white bolts of force were already streaking from his fingers in
a hasty burst of magic missiles.
Those missiles curved home, and he saw the two intruders flinch, but one had
grown fleshy wings, and the other had dropped into catlike form, and they
sprang at him before he could do anything else.
The room crashed and spun for Mortoth as heavy bodies slammed into him and
bowled him over. Suddenly flesh was enveloping him. He struggled, trying to
spit out something that was probing into his mouth, and failing.
Lorgyn, his eyes like two copper coins, catching the sun, encased the wizard's
head and hands in folds of flesh, invading his mouth with a firm tentacle to
keep him from speaking spells, and leaving him only small nose-hole for
breathing.
"Do you want the portal right here?" he asked.
Bralatar shrugged. "Why not? We know a way into this room, and I don't want to
risk wandering around among waiting spells and enchanted items and possible
traps looking for a better place. Get the thing done first."
Lorgyn nodded. "The decision is wise." He held the wizard securely as
Mortoth's struggles ceased and his body started to tremble.
Bralatar paced out the space he'd need and began the casting, moving slowly
and carefully, his body half voluptuous maiden and half panther. White, cold
fire that blazed but did not consume sprang up where he gestured, building
into two open rings—both about as far across inside as a man is tall; one
horizontal and the other vertical—linked by a webwork of complex lines and
runes.
"Place him," he ordered. Lorgyn spun the helpless wizard deftly to a spot
where Bralatar bound him about with the same cold fire before Lorgyn released
the binding of flesh.
Mortoth blinked. He could suddenly see again and + 18G +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
opened his mouth to shout a spell, but found himself staring into a pair of
cold, uncaring eyes for just an instant before his vision vanished abruptly.
The same white, endless fire that had taken it whirled into his mouth, and all
he could do was hum.. . .
Bralatar stepped back with a satisfied air, surveying the magical gate he'd
created. The wizard hung spread-eagled and helpless in the upright circle;
anyone stepping into the other circle, blazing just above the floor, would set
foot in Shadowhome.
To use the other end to come to Faerun, a rival Shad-owmaster would have to
stand in exactly the right spot in the Castle of Shadows, and utter the secret
word Bralatar had bound the casting with. There was a small chance that one of
the blood of Malaug might be standing near when the gate formed—it did not
become invisible until complete—but in the spot he'd chosen, in a place as
large as the Castle of Shadows, it was unlikely.
Necessary though it was if he and Lorgyn were ever to return home, Bralatar
had no intention of testing his creation. Each use would drain the wizard of
some of his life-energy, and they'd need another magic-wielding being to
replace him. Most mortals could power the passage of only four beings before
they died, the last life stolen from them to leave behind only shriveled
husks.
It was a pity the senior Malaugrym never revealed the locations of the ancient
gates in Faerun built or discovered by the early blood of Malaug. Worse still,
neither he nor Lorgyn had the use of a scrying portal to search either
Shadowhome or Faerun from afar. If there were gates enough and in the right
places, they could have avoided this entire undertaking . . . and left
important, bustling little Mortoth of Sembia in peace.
"At least we're putting this wizard to good use, not just slaying him and
seizing his magic, as Lunquar did to all the Zhents he could find in the
brothels of Sembia,"
+ 187
I
ED GREENWOOD
Bralatar commented, watching cold fire race up and down Mortoth's motionless
limbs.
"Lunquar's gathered a lot of magic, don't forget," Lorgyn reminded him.
"Yes, but the risk!"
The Great Foe is dead! What is to stop us ruling over all?"
"So why did Lunquar counsel us to subtlety?"
"It's his way. Lunquar's always been a fierce loner; he refused to work with
Dhalgrave himself, once. He's as bad as Ahorga."
"The probable difference between them is that to get home, Lunquar's going to
have to do what we have—or use our gate, at whatever price we set—and old
Ahorga can no doubt travel freely back and forth between Shadowhome and
Faerun. He must know the old gates and the traps our kin set on them ages
ago."
"Are there any gates known to our kin, that we've not trapped?"
Lorgyn shook his lovely blonde head. "Not so far as I know; the doing was
deliberate and absolute, to prevent the use of all gates known to us by any
being not familiar with our guard spells."
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 23
"And we intend to keep things that way," said Am-dramnar softly, staring
through his hastily cast scrying portal. He'd only caught this utterance and
the last few words of something about Ahorga, but it was clear which of the
kin were involved: they'd found Bralatar and Lorgyn.
It had been sheer chance that he and Argast had passed through the little-used
Hall of the Eyes to avoid the well-traveled Hathtor's Gallery. The gate had
appeared right in front of them, lines of white fire draw-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ing themselves in the air.
Amdramnar was fast with his magic, but he was more used to hurling slaying
spells in haste than spinning a scrying portal at speed. It had taken some
time to call up a view of the other end of the unfolding magic.
"So we know of four kin active in Faerun now: Ahorga and Lunquar, operating
independently, and these two," Argast mused aloud. "Shall we place a slaying
trap on their gate?"
"I think not," Amdramnar replied. "Given the right spell—111 have find it in
my librams—we can divine the trigger word Bralatar used in the casting. Then
it can serve us as a route that Ahorga and the other elders don't know about,
if we have to bring someone into Shadowhome undetected."
"A mate, for example," Argast said softly. "Your lady of the sword."
Amdramnar regarded him, unsmiling. "You seek a lady too, I know. With a world
open to me, Sharantyr may not be my choice."
If the two Malaugrym who stood beside the scrying portal could have used it to
look into each other's minds, they would have seen that Amdramnar burned with
the need to have the mortal Sharantyr—and no other—and that Argast had a
deeper need. His mother had fled the Castle of Shadows long ago and
successfully hid, somewhere in Faerun, from the seeking magic of the House of
Malaug. She was then pregnant; Argast son of Halthor must have siblings now.
If one could be befriended and manipulated, or bred with ... a new dynasty of
Shadowmasters could rise to rule the shattered House of Malaug. . . .
But it was very much a good thing that scrying portals—and most other magic,
even wielded by kin— couldn't pry at the thoughts of Malaugrym.
"Let us go to your chambers," Argast suggested. "I'll wait without while you
prepare your spell, and we can return here without delay."
ED GREENWOOD
Amdramnar nodded. He passed a hand across the scrying portal; it rippled and
was gone, leaving the Hall of the Eyes dark and apparently empty.
"I have little liking for hunting mage after mage for their magic," Lorgyn
said carefully as they stood in the room with the helpless wizard floating
between them, "but we should take steps to ensure that this one doesn't have
an apprentice or three who'll find and free him."
"Hah—if I know apprentices, more likely they'll slay and rob him, and take
away all the magic they can." Bralatar replied.
Lorgyn looked thoughtful. "That brings to mind another thing," he said slowly,
frowning. "There have always been rumors that Malaug left powerful magic
hidden on Faerun before he came to Shadowhome. It was one of the reasons old
Stannar grumbled so much about the prohibition on forays into Faerun. If we
can find it..."
Bralatar lifted an eyebrow. "Is that why you ransacked Candlekeep?"
Lorgyn smiled faintly. "You know about that? Aye, but I found nothing there .
. . not even in the minds of the eldest whitebeards. Are Malaug's writings
truly lost, or forgotten—or are they just hidden in some grasping wizard's
tower?"
"Elminster's tower, of course," Bralatar said grimly. His eyes alight with a
sudden dark fire. "And with El-minster destroyed . . ."
19O
13 Oat of the Shadotos
Shadows roiled around them, sliding past in an endless murmur of green and
gray motes, streaming between the massive stone pillars. Each pillar, some of
the kin whispered, held an unfortunate Malaugrym, entombed alive as part of
the cruel magics Malaug employed. These traitors thus kept the very
foundations of the Castle of Shadows from being swept away by shadows.
Argast and Amdramnar both suspected those whispers held truth. There was
something eerie about the Undercrypt. One felt the scrutiny of an unseen
presence here. As the Malaugrym stood facing each other in the stream of
ever-shifting shadows, they could feel it very strongly. Was the watcher all
that was left of Malaug himself? If it was the First to Walk Shadows, he must
be truly ancient. . . and he never broke silence or gave any sign that he knew
what befell his descendants. Other Malaugrym believed the castle itself was
sentient, that the Undercrypt was where it was most truly awake and aware.
"I am ready," Argast announced calmly, "but I have one question: how much
greater is the risk to us, traveling to a place neither of us has actually
been?"
"Oh, but we have," Amdramnar said with a smile. That's the beauty of it.
Moreover, when we visited, I let fall a focus token there. The risk is
vanishingly small."
ED GREENWOOD
Argast frowned. "You say I have been to this place?"
"Yes. We stood in the sky hurling spells down at the Great Foe and the three
rangers with him when they were encamped in a ruin, and—"
"There? The ruin?"
"It's as good a place as any," Amdramnar said. "Close to places we've viewed,
but in the wilderlands. We're not likely to be seen arriving, nor be swiftly
called upon to shift shape or act at being something we're not— until we
choose to do so. Let us smell and feel Faerun first."
A faint smile crossed Argast's face. "Good points, all. Let us be going, then.
I have waited a very long time for this."
"I, too," Amdramnar said, and reached out his hand to touch Argast's shoulder.
He spoke a single word, there was a momentary falling, spinning sensation— and
they were suddenly standing in the long grass of upland Daggerdale, with the
ruins of Irythkeep around them.
"See how easy it is?" Amdramnar said, shaking his head. "It seems incredible
that all of our clan has been kept from this for centuries, for fear of one
old man!"
A helmed head promptly bobbed into view above a section of crumbling wall, and
a voice roared, "Enemy mages! Strike—strike to slay, for the greater glory of
the Dead Dragons!"
The two Malaugrym exchanged startled looks, then ducked away in opposite
directions as a ball of flame hissed through the air, divided into two smaller
balls, and chased them.
"By the blood of Malaug, who've we stumbled into this time?" Amdramnar
snarled, somersaulting over a jagged wall and falling down the steep drop-off
beyond with a jolt that rattled his very teeth. A moment later, there was a
flash and a ground-shaking roar. The fireball struck the wall and blew it
apart; it promptly toppled, burst, and plummeted down on top of him.
AI.L SHADOWS FLED
The furious Malaugrym grew one long leg and leapt—crazily off-balance—from
under a huge pile of rubble that thudded into the turf where he'd lain a
moment before.
He landed, rolled, and came up facing back where he'd been, in time to see a
large war bird that must be Argast flap into view, rising sharply. A robed man
who bore a gleaming staff stood on the edge of the drop-off. As Amdramnar
hastily backed away, the man discharged the staff, spitting a beam of flame at
Argast that scorched him all along one flank and startled him into a fall.
Another man took up a dramatic stance, a wand raised in his hand. He peppered
Argast with magic missiles, sending him down to a hard landing on the rubble
pile.
Argast got up shrieking in fury, but his Art was feeble. He could do little
against wizards of power. He fled desperately downhill, changing shape into a
large, bounding jackrabbit for greater speed—and outrunning a web of crimson
bolts from the staff.
Very soon Amdramnar fetched up beside Argast, his eyes blazing. "Somewhere
quiet in the wilderlands? By the fist of Malaug, what're the cities like?"
"Someone else must have decided this ruin would be quiet and secluded, too—or
they wouldn't be so eager to throw away powerful magic on two men they haven't
even spoken to yet," Amdramnar said calmly. "Let's withdraw."
"There seems little point to it," Argast said grimly, pointing at another
swarm of bright bolts headed their way: magic missiles, unavoidable and
painful. "Who are the Dead Dragons, anyway? An adventuring band? Some of the
Great Foe's apprentices, out for some fun?"
Amdramnar suddenly chuckled. "No, I think they're some sort of cult that were
always bothering the Great Foe . . . idiots who worship skeletal undead
dragons."
Argast gave him a disbelieving look, but gritted his
+ 193-*
ED GREENWOOD
teeth as the swarm of magic missiles struck home, hurling them both onto their
backs in the grass. "Let's move out of sight," he said, sounding sick. That
hurt." Keeping low, they crawled over a ridge and became two wolves, trotting
in a wide circle around the ruin.
"Shall we go elsewhere?" Amdramnar asked.
"Revenge first," Argast said in iron tones. "No one should try to slay
Malaugrym out of hand and get away with it!" They trotted on. "So what does
worshiping un-dead dragons have to do with hurling spells at everyone you
glimpse?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "They seize treasure to offer dragons," he said slowly.
"Perhaps they thought we were thieves come to take it."
"They walk around heavily laden with killing magic all the timer
"Perhaps the Shadowmasters High were not such fools as we thought to ban entry
into Faerun," Amdramnar said mildly.
"Bah! Bralatar and Lorgyn still live—and have done well here. If those two
overconfident lackwits can thrive in Faerun, we certainly can!"
"Talking wolves?" A man's voice said from behind them. "Shapeshifters, more
likely! "Ware a trap!"
Without bothering to look around, the two Malaugrym broke into a run. The
fireball, when it came, exploded just above their heads.
Somewhere in the red, roaring inferno of the fireball's fringes, Argast
fetched up very hard against a boulder and felt many things snap. He saw
Amdramnar hurtle helplessly past, turning over and over in midair, so racked
with pain that he was losing wolf form. Tentacles and a misshapen gray mass
wobbled and thrashed the air just before he landed in a cloud of dust.
"A fireball!" snapped the first voice they'd heard. "They must know we're
here! Attackr
As the two Malaugrym lay in pain among the smol-
ALL SHADOWS FI.ED
dering grass, forty or more mages and warriors boiled up over a ridge ahead of
them and raced past, to the place whence the fireball had come. The sounds of
battle arose from thereabouts.
When Argast had fought down the pain and shifted shape into something
resembling a long-limbed crocodile, he moved hastily away. He was just in
time. A whirling cloud of flashing blades suddenly twinkled into being above
the rocks where he'd lain, clanging and crashing off stone—then turned into
slowly drifting white butterflies. Not far away, they heard someone curse all
gods and wild magic.
Amdramnar managed to slither to where Argast lay panting. "What befalls?" he
hissed.
"The dragon idiots were waiting for these others, and thought the fireball
cast at us was an attack meant for them. They rushed the ambush they were
planning and are attacking here and now. Who these others are is yet beyond
me; you're supposed to be the expert on Faerun!"
Amdramnar winced. "Truly said. Let's try to work our way over to the ruins.
From that higher ground we can look back at the fighting."
"And get attacked by all the dragon worshipers who aren't quite so eager to
get killed as these here are," Argast said sourly. "I await the experience
with eager glee."
"Ah, be easy! Magic's starting going wild here anyway—see those blades turn to
butterflies?"
"I'm not overwhelmed with joy," Argast said coldly, "at the prospect of
starting my exploration of Faerun as a butterfly! Or as anything else twisted
or shackled by sorcery, strange as it may seem!"
"I'll admit my idea of coming to Irythkeep has turned out badly," Amdramnar
replied quietly, "but we've seen a wand and a staff in use already, and magic
is a large part of what we came here for. Why flee from it now that we know
what we face? Why, they're busy battling
ED GREENWOOD
each other!"
As he spoke, lightning cracked into the sky, split apart into three bolts with
a spectacular crash, and leapt to earth, one striking quite close. Their hair
rose, and their bodies tingled.
Argast said dryly, "That's why. Have you experienced enough yet? Can we go
somewhere safer?"
"The ruins," Amdramnar insisted, "where we first appeared—if these Cult of the
Dragon fools were preparing an ambush, they must be camped there. It's the
only landmark in this stretch of country; the people they're fighting must
have been planning to camp there, or at least use it to keep on the route they
intended, and pass close by."
"What shapes do you suggest we take? Fireballs, so we can pass unnoticed,
perhaps?" The sarcasm in Argast's tone was venomous; it was clear he suspected
Amdramnar of having deliberately sent him into danger.
"Trust me, Argast," Amdramnar said firmly. "This fray was not of my doing.
I've been hurt as badly as you. We'll both be spending some time healing.
We'll need a large blood meal as fuel for it, too."
"What if we bite unknowing into a wizard and trigger nasty contingency
spells?" Argast said warily. "What then?"
"We're a long way out in the uplands; they probably all came here on horses,"
Amdramnar replied patiently. "Now let's move . . . looking like horses
ourselves might not be a bad idea. Someone might try to catch a horse, but
they're hardly likely to waste a fireball killing it!"
"Now you speak wisely," Argast said, beginning the shift into equine form.
Amdramnar sighed in relief and did likewise. He had begun to fear there was
some sort of curse afflicting this foray into Faerun.
They trotted in a very wide route, keeping to easy ground and almost out of
sight of the ruined keep to be sure of avoiding the attention of anyone who
might have a spell to hurl. They approached the ruins in the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
lee of a stand of trees, and made their hooves soft and pliable to keep as
silent as possible. When they were near enough to hear voices and see men
moving, they began to graze, drifting slowly around into view, hoping they'd
be taken for mounts belonging to the camp.
"We'll take losses now, for sure," someone was grumbling. "How could they have
seen us from so far off?"
"Mayhap they did not," a deeper voice replied.
"Mages don't waste fireballs on nothing, or throw them across grassland at a
whim! That's sheer foolishness!"
"I've known some wizards whom the mantle of 'fool' would fit right well," the
deep voice responded.
"Don't let Chaladar hear you say that! Some of the dragons like to chase and
eat human warriors who put up a fight, you know!"
"Aye, I do know," the deep voice replied calmly. "Why do you think we asked
you along?"
"What? How can you be—did Chaladar tell y—oh, gods! My horse ... all unsaddled
. . . sweet Tymora, aid me now!"
"That's not a very judicious prayer for a faithful follower of the Scaly Way,
wouldn't you say, Malarnus?"
"Quit baiting the lad, Ornthar . . . you'll have him running into things and
shrieking in a breath or two! Sit down, Felus! He was merely jesting with
you!"
"Now what have you done with your wand, boy?" Ornthar growled. "Dropped it, no
doubt, while running around like a man who can't find the privy seat and
babbling to Lady Luck!"
The Malaugrym exchanged a look and moved closer.
"Here it is!"
"That's my wand, idiot!" Malarnus told him. "Where did you walk, Felus, and
where've you been sitting? Go back to all those places and look for it,
and—there!" There came a thud and a groan. Malarnus added sarcastically, "See
how easy it is to find things when you trip over them?"
"Dolt!" Ornthar added helpfully.
ED GREENWOOD
Amdramnar took a step nearer and had a sudden idea. He began to shift shape,
turning into a scorched-looking man, hairless and blackened, clothes hanging
in tatters. When he was done, he turned to Argast and gestured for him to do
the same. Argast gave him a doubtful look for a moment, but complied.
Amdramnar gestured to Argast to follow. He staggered around the last few trees
and right into the camp.
"By the Dragon! Keep back!" a scarred veteran in half armor said, raising a
wand in one hand and holding a blade in the other. Ornthar, no doubt. Seated
on either side of him were an anxious youth and a sleek man with a spade
beard. Felus and Malarnus.
"I-I . . . help us," Amdramnar gasped, staggering a pace closer. "Fireball..."
"Who are you?"
"Followers ... we were to meet Chaladar here," Amdramnar husked. "All dead now
but us...."
"Felus," the seated man rapped, "get them some water." Malarnus indeed, by his
voice. How generous.
Amdramnar staggered right over to the lad as he reached for a saddle skin, and
Argast followed. Ornthar kept his eyes and his wand trained on them all the
time. Malaug*s curse on all well-trained warriors, Amdramnar thought, and
worked magic that called forth fire.
Flames flared up right behind Malarnus, who heard the hiss and crackle, looked
around with a frown, and jumped up with an oath. "Fire! Magic!" He spun
around, eyes narrowing. "There's none here but y—"
He was, of course, too late. A tentacle whipped lash-like around his throat,
jerked, and broke his neck. He joined Felus and Ornthar, who'd been distracted
for one fatal moment by Malarnus's shout. All three lay broken on the ground.
"Take anything that looks magical," Amdramnar said. "We can discard things
later. We'll ride two of their horses."
198*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"And eat them later, too," Argast agreed, bending to the work of feverishly
examining the camp.
They found three wands and an old cup . . . and that was all. If this Cult of
the Dragon band carried heavy magic, it was in use beyond the ridge, where
green smoke was drifting and the bright flashes of spells could still be seen.
Figures ran toward the ruined keep, now! Three . . . more ... a dozen, but
still small distant dots. Time to be gone.
"Come," Amdramnar snapped. He turned toward the nearest horse.
Argast hesitated for a moment, looking as if he was about to refuse and go his
own way. Then he. peered back at the running men, shrugged, and followed.
Amdramnar frowned, and was not gentle with his horse.
"I'd guess he's taken with some scrying spell and we won't see him until
dusk," the younger and louder of the two men said.
"Peering at wenches in the brothels of Ordulin, most likely," the older man
grunted. He ran a finger down the script in a thick and dusty book.
"Turnold!" the third apprentice in the library said sharply. She scowled. "You
know I don't like to hear talk like that!"
The older man sighed. He replied without bothering to look up from his book,
"You've got to learn about human nature and the ways of the world sometime,
Irendue. You must notice how he looks at you."
That's a private matter between the master and myself," was the even sharper
response, "and no concern of yours!"
"Oh, I'm not concerned," Turnold said easily. "If I were in your place I would
be, but he's not interested in
199
ED GREENWOOD
me."
"For your information, Master Prentice Turnold, he's not interested in me in
the manner you so crudely allude to, either!"
"Oh? And just when I thought I'd got right the scrying spell the master taught
me ten years ago! I particularly like the black-and-gold gown, by the way. . .
."
"You worm!" Irendue shrieked, leaping to her feet, her face white to the lips.
"You utter . . . spying snake!"
"Oh, I was following the master's instructions ... as was Lareth here. The
master told us we might learn something. . . ."
The door banged furiously as Irendue left, and Lareth, who'd blushed as red as
his scarlet robe, coughed uneasily. "You shouldn't bait her like that. You
know she'll just run to the master and there'll be trouble."
"We have to pay for our training," Turnold said calmly, "and pay dearly. She
pays in another way. I don't mind that; I'd just like her to be honest about
it and not play the prim and prissy high lady with us."
"Why should she be honest?" Lareth asked, amused. "She's training to be a
mage, not a hermit priest!"
"I could probably tell you things about hermit priests," Turnold replied
calmly, turning a page.
"My, you have been busy with that scrying spell," Lareth returned. He held the
grimoire he'd been frowning at under Turnold's nose and pointed at a notation
in one margin of a battle spell. "Oparl's hand, do you think?"
Turnold shook his head. "Too spidery. Jamryth's, for a gold lion."
"I'll not wager with you, Turnold," Lareth said ruefully. "You're too often
right!"
"That has always been my trouble," Turnold agreed calmly, eyes on his own book
again.
"Thirsty work, this," Lareth said. He set down his book and flipping its spine
ribbon to mark the page
ALL SHADOWS FLED
with Jamryth's notes. "I'm for a flagon. Join me?"
"Plenty of time left to get drunk today," Turnold replied. "I'll be along
later."
"Right," Lareth said with a grin, and swept out.
Only a moment later, he added a scream.
By the time Turnold got out into the passage, wand in hand, Lareth had joined
Irendue—and the master!— in a web of cold white fire that seemed to fill the
privy chamber. Two women he'd never seen before—no, men wearing the faces of
wenches—were standing in the passage facing him, with wide and ruthless smiles
on their faces.
As he swept the wand up, Turnold felt the horrible strength of the tentacles
that were falling on him from all around the door frame . . . tentacles that
trailed back along the floor to join up with the men-women's bodies!
The wand was slapped from his hand, but a horrified Turnold scarcely noticed.
He was trying desperately to scream, but discovering, as tentacles crowded
into his mouth and slid coldly up his nostrils, that it was much too late.. .
.
Daggerdale, Flamerule 23
"I begin to think Lunquar's approach is the right one," Argast said as his
exhausted horse collapsed under him. "Hide as much as possible. Keep to crow
shape and the like, take human form only when another shape will win
suspicion. Lie low and learn."
"Well have to lie low for a bit to heal fully," Amdram-nar grunted. "Kill
these now and eat?"
"Why not? They're too weak to be of any other use!"
The Malaugrym had ridden across half Daggerdale without a break; Argast's
mount had collapsed on a steep slope in the rolling hills of the southeastern
dale,
+ SO1-*
ED GREENWOOD
hard by the woods that stretched to Shadowdale.
"I think the most important thing is to hide ourselves from the common folk,"
Amdramnar said slowly. "They seem very swift to call on adventurers when they
see something amiss, and this world does have crude shapeshifters, .. ."
"Doppelgangers, yes, I remember all the tales about how Malaug must have
bedded one and thus given us the power."
"It matters little now. I just want to hunt down this Sharantyr woman and the
two men who came to Shad-owhome with her."
"And kill them, slowly and painfully?" "The two men, yes. The woman's fate
depends on what she agrees to. . . ."
Argast shook his head and mouthed the words: then I'll kill her. He was
careful to turn his head so that Amdramnar had no chance to see his lips.
Then he felt a tentacle brush his leg. He was about to strike it away angrily
when he saw that Amdramnar was sinking down into the shape of a horse, and
lying as if dead in the grass ... and that his lone tentacle was pointing
urgently across the valley.
Argast crouched down. He had already begun to take horse shape when he saw
them: a dozen or so men and women in drab leather armor. Dirt-caked weapons
hung in their hands, and they crept cautiously through the trees. A patrol.
Someone's patrol, Argast made himself as much like the real horse beside him
as possible and lay still.
It seemed a very long time before a voice said, low-pitched and near, "They're
still warm . . . this one, at least, still lives. Ridden to death."
"So their riders must be close by ... hiding from us, no doubt."
"Zhent troops, for a gold lion."
"That's a wager I'll never take, Yheldon. If we find them and they have
arrows, we'll end up just as dead as
ALL SHADOWS FLED
the mighty Elminster—and the Zhentsll be picking the gold coins out of both
our purses!"
Argast twitched in excitement. The Great Foe dead!
It was dark before the two Malaugrym dared move again, coming up to clutch
each other and hiss excitedly, "Elminster, dead!"
"We must confirm this," Amdramnar muttered. "I've heard tell men have thought
him dead many times before."
"Of course," Argast agreed, "but if it be true, we can hunt freely!"
"Don't forget that woman back at the keep who turned our kin to mushrooms and
slaughtered us like cattle! He's not the only one in Faerun we must beware
of."
"Aye, but he was the one who watched and waited for us. Moreover, with magic
gone wild and gods walking Faerun and everything in confusion . . .*
"You're right," Amdramnar acknowledged with a sigh, turning to look east.
"You sound disappointed that he's dead."
"I am, a little. I was dreading having to face him . . . but to strike him
down myself! The honor of our house demands it! Someone has robbed me of the
chance to fell the Great Foe." Amdramnar shook his head, and chuckled. "With
Elminster gone, whatever will the elder kin blame their failures on now, I
wonder?"
"They'll find something," Argast said. "They always do. I think skill at
finding targets for blame is part of the wisdom of being an elder."
Near the Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 24
"There's a large party on the road south of the Stone," Sharantyr said. She
leapt lightly down from the lowest bough of the tree. The others were already
loosening weapons in sheaths and taking up their gauntlets.
ED GREENWOOD
"Did you see lots of armor?" Belkram asked eagerly.
Sharantyr shook her head as she unlooped the reins of her mount. "No, bold
warrior. I saw horses, men's heads above them, and dust. At least twenty
horses, and probably more." She vaulted into the saddle and looked to Storm.
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled. "It's always good to have a look at the Stone
before one rides there. It avoids a lot of surprises."
"Could it be another Zhent army?" Itharr asked as they guided their horses
cautiously around roots, down mossy banks, and out onto the Hillsfar road.
Storm frowned. "Blackhelms riding openly, no. Some of our people"—they knew
she meant the Harpers— "would have brought me word of any such force gathering
or on the move through Sembia. Zhent agents could well have sponsored some
hireswords—but on the other hand, were I an honest merchant in times as
troubled as these, I'd travel in a large band with plenty of bought blades to
defend me, too." A faint smile crossed her face, and she added, "So, as usual,
we'd best be ready for anything."
They rode in wary silence past the ancient Standing Stone, seeing the glitter
of steel in the forefront of the travelers coming north toward them. It was
soon evident that the front rank consisted of five hard-eyed mercenaries with
ready crossbows and full armor. They came on without stopping, loading and
leveling their bows as they saw the armed rangers.
At the sight of those preparations, Storm said, "Stay well back, all of you.
With magic unreliable, I can't protect you against crossbow bolts."
Itharr made a small sound of protest, but Sylune's soft voice said, "Heed her.
Your death can be avoided this time if you act wisely, so why not avoid it?"
In the silence that followed, they watched Storm ride to meet the oncoming
band.
"Stand aside, brigand," one of the hireswords ordered
ALL SHADOWS FLED
shortly.
"Surrender your names and business to me, mercenary," Storm replied calmly,
unmoving. "Stand aside, I said!"
"Is anyone in this mounted assembly of a more reasonable mind?" Storm asked
mildly. "Most travelers on these roads are well aware that the Knights of Myth
Drannor patrol here; if your business is lawful, our encounter may be brief
and pleasant. , . but an exchange of information is expected."
A crossbow snapped, and a quarrel flew. Belkram growled and made to launch his
mount forward, sword flashing out.
At his ear, Sylune" said in a voice of iron, "Stand and watch! You may even
learn ..."
Storm calmly plucked the crossbow bolt from her breast, examined it
critically, and held it out, looking at the gaping man who'd fired it. "Yours,
I believe?"
"Who are you?" another of the mercenaries snapped, face pale and voice sharp
with alarm,
"Ah," Storm replied pleasantly, "the words you should have spoken first. I am
Storm Silverhand, Bard of Shadowdale, and am accompanying a road patrol
ordered by Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale and the Knights of Myth Drannor to
keep peace on the roads in these perilous times. Again, I ask you your names
and business."
She tossed the crossbow bolt, underhanded, back to the man who'd fired it. He
juggled it but dropped it to the road, and started to dismount.
"What's the delay here?" a man in rich robes called, urging his mount forward.
A man in a yellow cloak, who rode behind the mercenaries, answered, "Some sort
of road patrol asking our business."
"Ignore them; we're in a hurry."
"A hurry to go where, goodsir?" Storm asked quietly.
"Ride her down!" the man ordered the mercenaries
ED GREENWOOD
curtly. Seeing one of his men out of his saddle, he shouted, "You heard me!
Get up and get on!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries said, "this w—"
"I'll hear none of it! Onward!"
"Hireswords," Storm asked quietly, "is this most audible man your master?"
A smile flickered on more than one face along the line of armored warriors
before one said, "Aye, Lady. Rethuld of Saerloon."
"Thank you, good warrior," Storm said politely. She raised her voice.
"Rethuld! I would speak with you!"
"But 7," the man spat contemptuously, "would not speak with you! Anyone
blocking the high road is a brigand, and I slay brigands, not bandy words with
them!"
"By the treaty of the Stone in whose shadow we stand," Storm said quietly,
"any dale lord is empowered to send patrols out on the roads—and all travelers
on the road are bound to obey such patrols and surrender to their queries and
examinations."
"That treaty is centuries old! We pay no attention to it in Sembia!"
"Old it may be," Storm replied calmly, "but I was there at its making, and I
was also present not so long ago as all that, when the young land of Sembia in
turn signed it to gain trade access to the Moonsea North and grow to its
present wealth. You would do well to pay continued attention to it if you are
a merchant of Sembia. Treaties ignored may be revoked—and with the roads
closed, what are the prospects for your wealth then?"
"You said the dales were unprotected," the man in the yellow cloak said to
Rethuld, frowning. "You said we'd be able to—"
"Silence! I am not prepared to discuss our private business dealings on the
high road! We can speak of this later—if there is to be a later for you,
Jasten!"
"I think," Storm said quietly, "this has gone far
ALL SHADOWS FLED
enough. I've no wish to see blood spilled this day, so I think we'll have a
little truth here." She made a gesture.
Another crossbow bolt hummed past her, but missed, and Storm completed her
spell. She looked slowly around at the row of mercenaries and the half a dozen
merchants crowded behind them. There were wagons beyond, with a dozen or more
additional mercenaries flanking them . . . and presumably a rearguard. "If
there's no harmful intent in this man's replies, you'll all be free to
proceed—but I will look unfavorably on men who try to slip past me, or offer
violence to me, before I am done. That means you, sir, trying to stay unseen
in the trees .. . come out where I can see you!"
A man shouldered sullenly out through the brush, astonishment on his face and
a sword in his hand. "Who—what are you, Lady?" he demanded.
"I am Storm Silverhand. Do you believe nothing in Sembia of the tales of Those
Who Harp, or of the Seven Sisters? Or do you dismiss them as idle fancies and
turn back to the hard, grasping work of stacking coins ever higher?"
"Minstrels tell many wild tales of the barbaric back-lands of Faerun," a fat
merchant snapped from behind the line of mercenaries. "If we believed them
all, we'd not dare leave our bedchambers for fear of flying dragons and dark
elves in the streets and Red Wizards behind every tree!"
"Tell me," Storm asked, widening her eyes, "is your bedchamber tastefully
furnished?"
"What?"
"If, as you say, you spend so much time there . . ."
There were chuckles from the men around, and the fat merchant sputtered in
anger. "I—kill her!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries replied, not turning to take his eyes off
Storm, "I don't think that's possible. Not for us. Let's just hear her out,
and—gods willing— we can proceed."
+ 2O7-*
ED GREENWOOD
Storm gave him a dazzling smile. "Thank you, good-sir. It is always a pleasure
to know one is in the presence of patience and good sense."
Then she turned to Rethuld, who sat silent and pale, beads of sweat suddenly
thick on his forehead, and said gently, "While my spell lasts, you will be
able to answer direct questions only with the truth. I ask you now: for what
purpose was this band formed?"
Rethuld licked his lips, and his face contorted for an instant before he said,
"To gain property in the Dale-lands."
"Why?" Storm asked, "and why now?"
"Sembia grows unsafe . . . without watch spells, thieves and brigands are free
to loot, kidnap, and slay as they like. I gathered men whose business, like
mine, can be run from any locale, and we came north to find a better place to
bide until the strife be over."
"How did you plan to find this 'better place'?"
Rethuld looked around helplessly, sweating, and said, "S-Search, until we came
upon one to our liking."
"And what sort of place would be to your liking?"
"A stout keep or defensible manor." The words came out of Rethuld reluctantly,
as if he were fighting hard not to utter them.
"Such places are seldom deserted," Storm said mildly. "I can think of only
four that stand empty at present, and those are isolated ruins infested by
monsters—extremely primitive and dangerous accommodations. How were you
planning to take possession of a suitable place?"
"I-I . . ." Rethuld looked trapped, his eyes darting wildly from side to side,
his lips trembling. When he spoke again, his voice was low and despairing.
"Ah— seize it by force of arms."
There was a sigh of resignation from the men all around, and swords grated
out, but Storm sat still in her saddle and said calmly, "I thought so. Tell
me; was the idea your own?"
+ 2O8-*
Au, SHADOWS FLKD
"Ah, no, Lady," Rethuld said, his voice rising to a sudden, desperate squeal,
" 'twas brought to me by another."
"And the name of—?"
Rethuld sobbed suddenly; a blade that seemed to be made of bone protruded from
his chest. He shook, mouth working, looked down at the bloody point in horror,
and slumped over. The bone slid out of him from behind.
"I thought so," Storm said calmly, ignoring the blades that were slashing
through her. "Malaugrym."
The man behind Rethuld suddenly writhed and dwindled—and a falcon sprang into
the air, leaving an empty saddle behind. The bird darted south.
The blades were passing through the B.ard of Shadowdale as if her body was
made of smoke. She said to the men wielding them, "Submit to the others who
patrol with me, and you shall have peace," but the fearful hacking continued
unabated as the stone she wore between her breasts flashed with sudden blue
fire. She rose from her own saddle and flew after the falcon, still in her own
form.
"Gods," Belkram said as they ranged their mounts across the road to meet the
oncoming mercenaries, "how can she take so many wounds?"
"She wears a gorget that protects her with ironguard magic," Sylune replied.
"Metal weapons pass through her as if she were ... as insubstantial as I."
Lightnings blazed out from her, and mercenaries cried out, reeling in the
shadows and dropping their weapons.
"You heard the Bard of Shadowdale," Sharantyr cried, standing up in her
saddle. "Turn back to Essem-bra, in peace!"
As they stared at her, the ghostly head of Sylune drifted forward, its pale
glow reflected back from swords and armor all around. She added briskly,
"Bat-tledale holds manors in plenty left empty by the Zhents. I'm sure their
rightful owners would be happy
+ 2O9-*
ED GREENWOOD
to sell them to you. Those who are adamant in their determination to press on
will, before this day is put, find themselves sharing a grave with me."
That was all the Sembian band needed to see and hear. They wheeled their
mounts in hasty terror and fled from the ghostly female head that flew toward
them trailing long, silvery hair. They galloped south as fast as they could,
leaving their wagons behind.
Belkram laughed aloud. "That was the easiest fight I've ever been in!"
Sylune turned. "Be not so quick to laugh; your work is just beginning."
"It is?"
"These wagons must be taken up the Stone, turned around there, and driven back
to their owners, wherever they may flee to. I'll fly ahead to Essembra to get
us enough drovers."
"Flying around like that? They'll flee just like all these hardened warriors
here did!" Itharr protested.
"Not the Harpers," Sylune replied without turning. "The wagons, gentlesirs,"
She flew away down the road like an arrow shot from a bow.
Belkram sighed. "Why do we always get the sweat work, eh?"
"You're Harpers," Sharantyr reminded him sweetly. "Such unpleasantness
provides meaning and purpose in your lives." Itharr shot her a grin, and she
added, "You should be grateful: many folk never find meaning or purpose in
their existence."
"Huh," Belkram grunted, climbing up onto the boards of the foremost wagon.
"Why can't they all come and do this for us, then?"
21O
14
High Eoenf east at Loco Ryth&yn
The falcon winged frantically southward, trailing feathers in reckless haste
as no real falcon would dare do—and growing new ones as no real falcon could
hope to do.
Storm followed in its wake. Her fly spell thrust her steadily on through the
air. She kept low above the trees so she might survive her tumble to the
ground when the magic failed or went wild, and to make sure the falcon could
not veer off or descend suddenly without her seeing just where it went.
The falcon's flight was southeast over the forest until Essembra lay on their
right. Once past the town, it heeled westward, passing south across the road
to Sem-bia and the outlying farms of Battledale, heading for the distant
silver ribbon of the fast-flowing Ashaba, where it left the Pool of Yeven.
Long before it got there, the falcon turned north again, flew a little way,
and dived suddenly to earth.
Storm hurriedly swerved behind a tree to avoid being seen; as she'd expected,
the shapeshifter halted its descent to skim along the stone walls of an
estate, and peered into the trees all around as it went.
The falcon completed its circuit of the walls. Apparently
ED GREENWOOD
satisfied he was alone, the Malaugrym sank down beyond the wall.
Storm hastily flew nearer, working her way through the trees; she wanted to be
inside the walls too, when her spell ran out. Even if this turned out to be a
garden of deadly Malaugrym.
Beyond the wall was a cluster of towers, one of the many walled villas that
rich Sembians and wizards had built for themselves. They were enclosed for
safety against the monsters and brigands that roamed these lush wilderlands.
The road past the gate would be one of the long, winding lanes that fed into
Rauthauvyr's Road just north of Blackfeather Bridge.
She dare not tarry or work her way along the wall to avoid detection; her
spell would run out in moments. Darting over the wall, Storm found herself
over deserted gardens and a small ornamental pond. She turned sharply to keep
herself over dry land, and dived hastily down, righting herself to land feet
first. It was good she did. She was well above the turf when her magic gave
out, and she fell precipitously to earth.
"Once more to embrace the soft lips and bruising talons of adventure,
friends," she murmured to herself, quoting a ballad she had written hundreds
of summers ago. She got up and dusted herself off
The placid waters of a small garden pool showed her a rather fierce-looking
lady in leathers, so she stripped off her clothes and sword, bundled them up
together, and said a soft word over them.
They vanished obediently—at least that small magic had worked right; now for
the next one. She checked that she still had the dagger in its sheath under
her hair, at the back of her gorget band. These days, a lady never knew when
she'd need a good sharp knife. The gorget itself, stuffed with coins, bore a
chased design that was elegant enough to accompany the attire she planned. To
it, then ...
Standing nude above the pool, she worked a magic
ALL SHADOWS FLED
she'd not used in quite this way for years, creating an ornate
off-the-shoulder gown that would pass muster in the most exclusive circles in
Sembia, and elegant high sandals to go with it. Her silver hair would do as
she bid it, so she gave herself a sleek fall of tresses over one shoulder, and
an elaborate braid over her brow. 'Twould do, indeed.
Taking a last look around to mark the place she'd left her gear, Storm
strolled languidly across the gardens, eyes missing little despite her relaxed
manner. She spotted the spatters of fresh blood beside a stone bench in a
little bower, about where the falcon had landed, and wondered which inhabitant
of the household was now a broken, unrecognizable boneless thing hastily
buried nearby.
The Malaugrym awaited her somewhere inside these walls, all right. Storm
strolled ahead as if no such peril was near, enjoying the gardens. A winding
path girt with fragrant flowers took her to two small bridges that hopped from
islet to islet across the large pond, to a terrace where stone urns stood in
floral ranks along low, scalloped stone walls. Within those walls she could
see folk moving—liveried servants.
Calmly she strolled up the path, ascending a broad stair to where a grizzled,
monocled man of graying years and mustache was enjoying a row of flagons, each
containing a different wine. He stared at her in amazement for only a moment
before springing to his feet and saying, "Great lady, be welcome in Low
Rythryn Towers!"
He bowed, offered her his hand, and indicated a vacant chair beside his own.
"I am Lord Thael Sem-bergelt, once a battle commander of Sembia, but now lord
only of this house. I am delighted the gods have brought me so noble and—dare
I say?—beauteous a guest! Pray, make known to me your name."
"I am Storm Silverhand, called by many the Bard of Shadowdale," Storm replied
with grave charm, "and I must tender my apologies for arriving uninvited. My
213
ED GREENWOOD
An, SHADOWS FLED
spell travels brought me here unintentionally."
"No apologies are needed, not at all! In truth, you filled me with delight,
strolling up through the gardens like that as if you were some hidden nymph
come to greet me! It seemed this house were showing me one of its treasures!"
"Gallantly said, my lord," Storm said with a twinkle in her eyes. "I fear I've
upset the calm tenor of your days. You must have few guests."
"We see few welcome guests in these troubled times," the old lord agreed
gravely, offering her an empty goblet and silently beckoning a servant over.
"But my house is honored by your presence. I heard you sing once in a tavern
in Selgaunt, when you danced on a table for a room of weary soldiers. I'll not
forget that."
Storm inclined her head in thanks. The servant, bearing a silver platter of
decanters, glided to a stop between them.
"Pray take wine, Lady Storm," the old lord said earnestly, leaning forward in
his chair. "I dearly hope you can stay for evenfeast, or even grace us for a
few days. My house is yours."
"I would be delighted to dine with you tonight, my lord," Storm replied,
watching her host trying to keep his eyes away from where her plunging gown
was designed to make him look, "and see the morning sun rise with you. But as
for longer, I cannot say."
"I quite understand," Lord Thael rumbled. He ques-tioningly indicated the
array of decanters.
"The glowfire, I think," Storm said, and enjoyed watching the gnarled old
hands unstop and deftly pour.
He placed the goblet gently before her. "You are my fourth guest this even!
There seems to be much strife on the roads in Battledale just now; we seldom
see so many travelers this far off the road. You'll meet them at evenfeast."
"We?" Storm asked, raising her glass in salute. "You have a family, Lord
Thael?"
"Only a nephew, Oburglan," Lord Thael said gruffly. "You'll meet him, too."
Guessing that the lord's nephew was no family prize, Storm savored the
delicate bouquet of the glowfire for a moment, exchanged smiles with her host
over the rim of the glass, and sipped. Yes. She kept her face pleasant and
drank the wine with apparent relish, trying to ignore the burning sting of the
poison as it slid down her throat. .. .
She'd chosen the drink herself. Thael had poured it, a servant had brought it
... ah, gods above, the Malau-grym could be anyone!
As dusk came, Storm was still grimly trying to decide which of the folk of the
manor was the shapeshifter. The servants came to call them in to evenfeast in
the candlelit great hall of Low Rythryn Towers.
The waiting had been pleasant. Lord Thael, obviously enchanted with her, had
treated Storm with all the courtesy he knew, discussed politics with a keen
worldly interest, laughed appreciatively at her mimicry of dale lords, and
gave a shrewd summation of the directionless self-interest that governed
Sembia.
Now he escorted her to the best seat at the board, at his right hand. A lady
of rank, Storm bowed as an equal to him, and endured a daggerlike glare from a
thin and sour young man. Probably Oburglan, furious at being displaced at
table in front of guests.
"Well met, gracious lady," said Thael's expressionless seneschal, Burldon
Hawklan. "Even in this isolated hall, we have heard of the valiant deeds of
the Bard of Shadowdale, and Those Who Harp at her command."
Storm smiled back at him. "Minstrels tend to over-flower what they sing of,"
she responded gently, "but I thank you for your kind words." Hawklan bowed
stiffly and took his place at the far end of the table; to Storm's eyes, he
was every inch a professional soldier—one who did not consider himself
retired.
The other guests were less impressive. One was a
214
ED GREENWOOD
smooth-faced, saturnine trader in spices and pelts from Ordulin by the name of
Loth Shentle; the second was a young and handsome priest of Tymora from
Selgaunt, Dathtor Vaeldeir, who professed to be very excited at the chaos now
reigning over the Realms; and the last was a grim and dangerous-looking man,
Thorlor Drynn, introduced to her as a trade envoy of Hillsfar.
The dinner was excellent, consisting of roasts of just about everything that
could be roasted, smothered in a variety of gravies and sauces, with spiced
greens served as garnishes. And wine, of course . . . much wine.
There was poison in her goblet again. Storm took a certain dark amusement in
the fact that she could go on drinking it all night without ill effects
because of what Mystra had made her into. She let her eyes wander up and down
the table, wondering which of the eyes meeting hers belonged to a
shapeshifter—and how soon it would be ere the Malaugrym grew restive and
attacked.
The conversation began with talk of trade difficulties in these lawless times,
and came around to unreliable magic and priests rendered helpless or mad and
the Fall of the Gods. At that point Thael declared he'd heard enough about
gods and their doings, and diverted talk to the future of trade in the Moonsea
lands and the Dales, and the difficulties Zhentil Keep's aggressive nature was
causing to all traders.
The grim envoy of Hillsfar spoke up. "For my part, my lord, we in Hillsfar are
resolved to meet force with force. For too long the Zhents have taken
advantage of the absence of strong nearby opposition to force their will on
other folk and territories not their own—in fact, to behave little better than
the brigands we universally detest.
"I do not speak of the times they raise armies and march on one of us—which,
by the way, seems to happen at least once a spring, ruining harvests—but of
their open attempts to control how and where ore is brought out of Glister,
and anything at all out of
+ 216 +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Daggerdale. They try to dictate where and when ships may sail the Moonsea, on
what terms we must all trade in the region . . . and even if we may trade at
all with their rivals Cormyr and Mulmaster."
"Bullies will always be with us, sir—if not one, then another," Loth Shentle
said smoothly. "The trick is to anticipate their moves and take trade
advantage of the side effects; a shortage of food here, rising prices of
scarce items there . . ."
"As a fur dealer, you profit well out of Zhentil Keep's aggression, aye,"
Thorlor Drynn said coldly. "It has kept the prices of furs falsely high these
ten years or more."
"I deal with the world as it is," Loth Shentle replied easily, "not as others
might wish it to be."
"Yes, yes," the priest of Tymora said excitedly. "Deal with what the gods hurl
your way, taking chances whenever you strive for something that is not the
most obvious or easy!"
"But surely, my lords," Storm said quietly, "one should not accept the world
as it is. Deal with it, yes— but strive always in one's dealings to get
something in return, to make the world give a little ... to nudge it in the
direction of one's dreams."
Loth Shentle snorted. "I dream of vaults full of coins, Lady Storm," he said
wryly. "Have you any that you can yield unto me?"
"Dreams are just that: dreams. Warriors must deal with the real world, with
all its harsh brutalities and cold truths," the seneschal said.
Storm turned to look down the table. "I do not see the gulf between dream and
reality, Sir Hawklan. We must fight Zhents because they actively pursue their
dreams. In Shadowdale, we have fought them army to army, not merely poison in
flagons'*—she looked up and down the table, but saw no telling expression in
the faces turned to her—"and daggers in the dark. Seven open battles these
past ten summers. We should all pay very great attention to dreams."
+ 217
ED GREENWOOD
Thorlor leaned forward. "Well said, Lady. I'd say the lords of Zhentil Keep
have done quite well in their dreaming. Voonlar is already their vassal town,
the Citadel of the Raven, which was to belong to us all, is firmly in their
grasp, and Teshwave and Yulash lie in ruins because of them ... to say nothing
of the harm done to the once-proud cities of the Moonsea North, Daggerdale,
the Border Forest, and west along the trade route to far Waterdeep."
"Aye," their host said gruffly, setting down his heavy flagon. "There's a
dream: the trade route from here across half Faerun to the Sword Coast. An
awesome undertaking, however base the motives and bloody the doing. What say
you, Nephew? You once told me you wanted to see Waterdeep."
"I wonder at what tolls I'll have to pay," Oburglan said sullenly, "if I wait
for the Black Gauntlet to finish this trade route. I heard there was a Zhent
takeover in Loudwater—and some dealings in Saerloon, too . . . something about
a lady sorceress." He looked across the table. "What do you know of this, Lady
Storm—as a sorceress yourself?"
Thael turned a look of reproof on his nephew, brows bristling, but Storm
smiled across the table at the resentful young man. "I'm hardly a sorceress,
Oburglan, though I can cast a spell or two. I leave that to my more capable
sisters. As to what befell in Saerloon, the sorceress who seduced those
merchants and turned them to stone statues was an agent of Zhentil Keep. Over
the years I've never found such tactics to have lasting success."
Someone chuckled, well down the table, and Obur-glan's eyes were murderous as
he raised his flagon to cover his mouth.
"Stone statues do furnish a garden, though—as Bur-gusk of Selgaunt found,"
Loth Shentle joked.
"Not this garden," Lord Thael rumbled. "I'd be too afraid of the spell wearing
off and discovering I've got some mad Netherese sorceress at the far end of my
ALL SHADOWS FLED
pond—and more: that she's furious and happens to have a spell or two that can
level mountains! What would I say to her, eh?"
"Care to dance, my lady?" Dathtor suggested. There were roars of mirth.
"How about: my name is ... and my ransom is forty thousand pieces of gold?"
Loth Shentle suggested.
"No, rather: my name is ... and my next of kin are..." Thorlor put in.
Lord Thael looked at the only woman at his table, and his chuckles died away.
"I forget that you have freed folk from stone, Lady Storm. What did you say to
them?"
Storm looked into her glass, and answered, "I usually told them where they
were, that I meant no harm, and what year it was. They always wanted to visit
the privy after that."
That innocent and truthful observation brought a general shout of laughter.
When it started to die Storm added, a twinkle in her eyes, "But if I met the
Netherese lady you mention, I'd probably say: I've had mornings like you're
having!"
Everyone hooted, even Oburglan. Storm mused briefly to herself about the
effects of too much wine on folk—it made them laugh, or cry, or rage all too
easily. She plunged the table into awed silence by adding, "The only memorable
Netherese mage I did meet was a man, and his body had withered away to almost
nothing . . . so he tried to take mine."
"Gods," Hawklan mumbled after a very long moment had passed. "How did you
escape?"
Storm shook her head. "I'm sorry," she said gently, "but that's a trade secret
I keep as close about as any merchant guards his own. Ask Mystra to tell
you—it is hers to reveal."
Oburglan sputtered. "That's right!" he protested. "Say something like that,
then turn all mysterious!"
"Oburglan!" Thael rapped out. "You speak to a great
ED GREENWOOD
lady; do so civilly, or leave this board."
His nephew's face flamed, and he brought his goblet crashing down. "Right,
then—" he began, placing both palms on the table to shove himself upright.
"Oburglan," Storm said softly, catching his angry gaze, "please stay. You are
right to be angry . . . 'tis a maddening tactic we old wielders of sorcery
use, to tell half a story and then fall silent when you want to know all. I
would say more if I could, and I apologize for mentioning the Netherese at
all."
Oburglan stared at her for a moment. He fumbled for his goblet. "How old are
you, then?" he mumbled, eyes surveying Storm's curves. "I mean ..." he looked
away and scratched at the lip of his goblet in some confusion, "I don't see
any wrinkles."
Down the table, someone sighed, someone else loudly stifled laughter, and Lord
Thael covered his eyes.
"I apologize for this wild-tongued kin of mine," he rumbled. Tray,
forgiveness, Lady Storm!"
He turned blazing eyes to Oburglan. "Lad, lad, one never asks a lady her age,
unless perhaps you're her suitor and must needs know what ground you walk
upon! And even then, 'tis best to ask her brother, or father, or anyone else!"
"Your advice is good, Lord, and should be followed by all men of breeding,"
Storm agreed cheerfully, "and yet there are exceptions to every rule . . . and
I am one of them."
She caught Oburglan's eyes again, and gave him the easy grin of a sister.
"Never trust a minstrel or bard who speaks of times and ages, for they're
always stretching a year here and a year there, speaking of long-ago battles
or fair ladies as if they'd witnessed them themselves. But this once, and
before all this table, I'll tell you truth: I am half a dozen years shy of my
six hundredth summer."
Oburglan gulped, stared at her, started to sneer . . . then gaped. "You're
serious," he whispered.
+ 2SO-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Storm nodded. With one slim hand she indicated the shoulder that her gown left
bare. "Not bad, eh?" she said in perfect mimicry of Lord Thael's gruff tones.
The table erupted again, and this time Oburglan joined in the general mirth.
Lord Thael was practically weeping with laughter, his head nodding almost into
his platter.
At the other end of the table, Hawklan saluted her with his goblet and said,
"Remind me never to say anything before you, Lady, that I would not want to
hear parodied!"
"A good rule for every man, Sir Hawklan, when dealing with any man or maid,"
she returned, raising her own glass. Did his eyes rest on it just a trifle too
long?
Ah—no. They were fixed a little lower down. This gown hadn't been such a
bright idea after all. But then, sophistication has its price. Moreover, if
all of us change what we are and what we do because of the threat of Malaugrym
attack, shapeshiflers have won the victory without ever having to fight the
battle!
"In that time, I have seen Hillsfar governed in many ways," Storm said,
turning to the envoy as the laughter started to die. "I'd be interested to
hear what you can tell us of Lord Maalthiir's publicly stated aims and
intentions."
Thorlor Drynn inclined his head. "I thank you for your diplomacy and
understanding, Lady Storm, in the wording you just employed. In reply, I can
say only: very little. Lord Maalthiir has often promised to make Hillsfar
great and to cleanse it of all hardship, suffering, and corruption. Laudable
goals that none, I daresay, could seriously contest. By his actions, I think
you can safely add to those general aims his intent not to let Zhentil Keep
have possession of Yulash, nor to suffer Mulmaster or Zhentil Keep to have
control of the river Lis, or Moonsea shipping in general. For what it is
worth—my words as a mouthpiece of Hillsfar being, of course, suspect by
definition—I see no great preparations for armies to march,
ED GREENWOOD
nor intentions on my lord's part to seize any other city or territory of
Faerun."
"I'm relieved to hear it," Loth Shentle said dryly, "as should be all
neighbors of Hillsfar. Two cities of rampaging warlords are more than enough
hereabouts."
"You speak overcautiously, Sir!" the priest of Tymora told him, refilling his
own goblet for perhaps the fortieth time, his face flushed with its effects.
"Strife brings change, and change is the natural order of things. It makes men
and maids able, and quick, and alert! Bold, and—"
"Forced to rely on Lady Luck," the seneschal put in from the end of the table.
"I've heard the litany a time or two before you were born, good Dathtor!"
The priest turned his red face around slowly to fix Hawklan with a bright-eyed
gaze. "Then you should know e'en better than I that 'tis true!"
"I know no such thing," Hawklan said firmly. "I am a simple soldier; I swing
my sword, obey orders to the letter, and let others worry about causes and
outcomes and grand strategies."
"And on your off days, you drink too much and wench too much—beg pardon,
Lady—and let life carry you on, on to the grave without disruption or
excitement," Loth Shentle said.
"A summation that sounds familiar, Nephew?" Lord Thael said meaningfully.
Oburglan flushed.
"No, Uncle! I mean—" his eyes darted to Storm, then back to Thael with an
almost pleading look.
"Don't embarrass me in front of the lady, Uncle?" Storm asked the youth. "Is
that what you want to say, but dare not find the words?"
Oburglan stared at her, opened his mouth, and shut it again, turning ruby to
the tips of his ears.
"Oburglan," Storm said, setting down her goblet to lean forward, "never be
embarrassed to admit truth, or think and talk about life, in front of anyone.
I'd be more embarrassed to He about my life or refuse to admit that
+ 222 +
Au. SHADOWS FLED
things are as they are. I'm not upset to learn that you're drifting the days
away here—it's not my life wasting away. If you're upset talking about it,
that shows you're not satisfied in doing so, and that's gods-be-damned good."
Heads turned along the table at her language, but Storm kept her eyes locked
on Oburglan's. "What you'd best do, when we're all gone, is take a walk in
that beautiful garden out there with your uncle, and talk about what you want
to do in life. Not to do what he says, but to decide for yourself. We all have
to, sooner or later. If it makes you feel better to hear it, I'd passed away
almost seventy years before I stopped my wild, witless pursuit of fun and
started wondering what I wanted to do for myself."
Oburglan gulped. "Seventy years?" he said faintly. "I didn't know there was
that much fun."
The table roared with laughter once more. When Lord Thael could speak again,
he slapped Oburglan's arm, "Well said!" He turned to Storm and added quietly,
"And very well said, Lady. I don't think I've a tongue nimble enough to thank
you rightly for saying those words. Fve never heard it said better, in all my
. . . er, sixty-eight years."
Storm smiled at him. "Shall I come back in two years to ask you what you've
decided to do with your life?"
There were uneasy chuckles around the table, and Thael shook his head with a
rueful smile. "I'd forgotten that the tongue can be sharper than a sword."
"I think you have the quotation wrong, Lord," the priest offered jestingly,
but Storm turned on him with a smile.
"What, Hand of Tymora? You stand in service to a goddess and don't know for
yourself the truth of that maxim? Truly, you must be a very good priest! All
the clergy I know would much rather face the swords of foes than the lashing
tongues of their superiors!"
Dathtor Vaeldeir winced. "I begin to see the truth of
+ 223 +
ED GREENWOOD
another maxim, Lords and Lady: 'If thou art captured, do and say anything to
keep yourself from the hands of your foe's womenfolk.'"
Deep laughter rolled out around the table, and more than one eyebrow in the
room rose to see Storm laughing as heartily as the others.
She raised her glass of newly filled, still-poisoned wine, her heart light,
and bid the night continue long.
When the table did rise, her wish had been fulfilled; they'd talked away most
of the time until dawn, and the first shift of servants had been replaced at
table by a second. Most of the men were stumbling with drunken weariness as
they sought out the jakes; Dathtor the priest was roaring drunk, and Oburglan
had been emboldened enough by his imbibing to ask her how one best chose a
wife. Storm was still smiling and shaking her head over that as she went to
the women's garder-obe—which, of course, she had all to herself.
No one attacked her there. Afterward, she went for a walk in the gardens in
the last faint moonlight, avoiding the torchlit areas. Someone at that
friendly table was a shapeshifter . . . and a Malaugrym dare not leave her
alive, when she could call down the Simbul upon him or point him out to half a
hundred wizards. The poison raging through her veins was proof enough of that.
No, an attack would come. She kept to the shadows as Loth Shentle strolled
past, a little unsteadily, singing an old familiar ballad about ladies fair
and fey. He startled her a few steps farther on when he paused on one of the
bridges, announced, "Gods, but she's beautiful!" and proceeded to vomit his
evenfeast helplessly into the pond.
Someone else was walking among the far fern beds, impossible to identify in
the gloom. Storm sat down on a bench in the lee of a spiky bush, only then
discerning the seneschal, Burldon Hawklan, who strode softly past, hand on
sword, eyes sober and alert, taking care
+ 224*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
to make little sound.
Storm rose thoughtfully and watched him vanish into the night. In one hand,
she hid the small thing she'd taken out in the garderobe.
"Out takin'—takeeng—air, pretty lady?" said a loud voice by her elbow. The
drunken priest of Tymora tried to lean against the tree, missed, and went for
a short stagger before finding his balance again. Storm brought her hand to
her mouth to cover her smile as he grinned loosely at her, sketched a shaky
salute, and said, "Doan—doant—don't you worship the Lady Tymora, e'en as I do?
C'mere!"
He was upon her, and the smell of wine was strong, and triumph blazed up in
his eyes as he embraced her. His arms tightened . . . and seemed to be
changing shape.
This was it. Their lips brushed together, and Storm worked her small magic in
careful haste.
An instant later cruel claws raked her back, tearing away her gown and the
flesh beneath in ribbons. Storm gasped and stiffened at the raw pain—but
instead of trying to pull away from the Malaugrym, she leaned into his
embrace, deepening their kiss. His savaging of her back slowed in
astonishment, but Storm clung to him with all her own great strength, holding
him firmly as her tongue thrust her saliva into his mouth. With it went the
powdered silver from the coin she'd dissolved with her spell.
The shapeshifter spasmed in sudden agony, fear, and desperation. The silver
was as poisonous to him as the liquid he'd been feeding Storm all night. Had
she not been one of Mystra's Chosen, she'd have died hours ago, after the
first sip Lord Thael offered her. She kept that in mind as she drew her mouth
away from his and watched him closely. The creature who was not Dathtor
Vaeldeir shuddered in her arms, convulsed, and died.
When she was sure he was dead, Storm swung his body over one shoulder, letting
the claws that still
ED GREENWOOD
dripped her blood dangle, and carried it grimly toward Lord Thael's kitchen
wing, where there should be firewood enough to burn it.
She was most of the way there, crossing the great flagstone terrace, when many
doors opened in the manor walls and a score of servants rushed out with lit
torches, enclosing her in a wide ring.
Lord Thael stepped out last and faced her, sword in his hand. "What have you
done, witch?" he bellowed, monocle dangling. He peered at her, and asked, "Or
. . . is that you, Lunquar?"
Storm met his eyes coldly. "You know what I've done, Malaugrym. And what I
must do." She lifted one side of her mouth in a mirthless smile, and asked,
"Just to save time, tell me—how many more are there of you in this house?"
"I need no aid to deal with the likes of you, mortal woman," was the cold
response. "With your precious El-minster dead, there's no one to watch us ...
and no one to stop us!" His teeth glinted in the torchlight as they lengthened
into fangs, and he added with soft smile, "Faerun will be ours!"
One of the servants screamed. Lord Thael was turning slowly into a thing with
a tail and hunched shoulders of corded muscle. He came forward in a slow,
careful crouch, eyes gleaming.
Storm let the body fall from her shoulder, kicked off her high sandals, and
walked barefoot to meet him in the bloody tatters of her gown.
When she was only two paces away, the Malaugrym sprang and brought his blade
around in a vicious arc. Storm strode right at him. His blade whistled through
her as if she were smoke, and she grappled with him.
The Malaugrym ducked away and hacked at her again, saw that the blade really
could not touch her, and flung it away with a snarl. It was still clanging
across the flagstones amid sparks when he flung himself on her.
Aix SHADOWS FLED
They strained together in the torchlight, two sets of rippling muscles
gleaming. The shapeshifter seized her shoulder and wrist and pulled, roaring
triumphantly.
He'd intended to tear her limb from limb, slapping her awake and making her
scream for mercy—but he strained and pulled with all his might. . . and she
resisted him easily, smiling all the while, and whispered the words of an
enchantment,
The Malaugrym grunted in amazement at her strength, then felt his mouth and
tongue moving of their own accord—no, her will!—to utter the single word
"Ahorga."
Her magic had forced him to name himself! Enraged, Ahorga grew his neck to
eel-like length and his fangs into snapping jaws, and he bit savagely at the
smiling face of his foe. She turned her head away and forced his own arm up
into the way of his jaws—such strength! He darted his head down and sank his
fangs deep into her left shoulder and breast.
Now the screaming would start, and she'd plead for mercy . . . but no. This
Storm woman hissed in pain but did not shriek or collapse. He bit deeply
again, and twisted his head to tear a great gobbet of flesh free. Her blood
fountained over them both, running freely to the flagstones, and he raised his
head to roar exultantly at the high, glittering stars.
Then he felt pain such as he'd never felt before, greater than the fire spells
that had scarred him in his youth. He writhed helplessly in his torment.
Silver flames licked along her spilled blood, fire the same hue as her silvery
hair, blazing up into a pillar now—and he was burning with it!
It was in pain and despair that Ahorga of the Malaugrym roared, struggling to
break free of her grip, and failing. He stared once into her face, and saw
that her eyes were two silver flames, too.
"Nooo!" he screamed. "Mercy!"
"I shall give you, Ahorga, the same mercy you gave to
ED GREENWOOD
Lord Thael Sembergelt," was the calm response. "The same mercy Malaugrym
always afford mere mortals ... none. This is a cleaner death than you
deserve." The silver flames roared up to claim him.
When the body was a burnt husk, Storm cast it down atop the body of the
Malaugrym Lunquar, and watched them both blaze. The flagstones beneath them
cracked and shivered with the heat, and more than one of the servants fainted
away, torches toppling to the terrace to gutter out. Storm stood motionless
above the pyre until ashes were all that remained of the two shapeshifters.
She looked up, half-naked, front and back in bleeding ruin. Oburglan and the
seneschal, Hawklan, gazed white-faced at her, swords in their hands.
"Lady," Hawklan asked, "what are you?"
"One of Mystra's Chosen," Storm answered him wearily. "These were two fell
shapeshifters; the real Thael Sembergelt and Dathtor Vaeldeir are dead."
The seneschal licked his lips and asked, "Was that, then, Mystra's silver
fire?"
Storm smiled wanly. "It was . . . pray that you never see its like again."
"Lady," Oburglan asked, his voice husky with fear, "are you . . . will you be
all right?"
"I will be fine soon enough, Lord Sembergelt," Storm said to him. "I grieve
for your uncle. I would have liked to come to know him well."
Tears spilled from both their eyes, then, but Obur-glan's trembling lips
shaped the wondering words, "Lord Sembergelt? You called me ..."
One bloody hand came up to trace his chin. He did not raise his blade or
flinch away. "You are Lord Sembergelt now," Storm said to him, "and if ever
you need comfort or guidance or the aid of Those Who Harp, come to me—or tell
any Harper." A trace of a smile came to her lips. "We even help spoiled
Sembian lords." She stepped forward and kissed him.
His face was covered with her blood as she drew
228
ALL SHADOWS FLED
back, but his eyes shone with a new light through the tears.
"Lady," the seneschal said haltingly, stepping forward, "if there is anything
we can do ... any aid we can render..." His eyes fell to her wounds, then rose
again to her face.
Storm shook her head. "My thanks for your offer, noble Hawklan, but no. Ill be
fine. I'll be even better if I know your new lord enjoys the same loving
guidance you gave his uncle."
"Lady," Hawklan said quietly, "it shall be so. If you'll permit me?"
And he took her hand, went to his knee, and kissed her bloody fingertips.
Storm smiled at him. "As I bid Oburglan, so also I ask you: Call on me if
there is need."
She stepped back from them, looked around at Low Rythryn Towers and the ragged
circle of torches, and shook her head.
"One good thing has come of this, at least," she told the two weeping men.
"Lord Thael lies where he would have wished: buried in his garden." She smiled
at them again, then turned away. It was a long walk back to Shadowdale—and
she'd need all that time to heal herself.
229
, See Mach-and Tay To SciRoioe
In a place of shifting shadows, behind hidden doors, in the heart of the
ancient castle of the Malaugrym, was a light. The bright, glowing eye of a
scrying portal floated in the murk, reflected from the tentacled face of a
watchful figure bent over it ... a figure whose skin was as dark and
ever-shifting as the sliding shadows themselves.
His eyes, however, were two bright flames, and the doomstars winked brightly
as they spun endlessly about his wrist. He stretched, watched them dim
momentarily as they passed through a dark drift of shadow, sighed, and
murmured, "Fools . . . this house is breeding fools by the score. Lunquar and
Ahorga both gone—and they deserved it."
He turned again to the light, watching the wounded Storm walk through a
merchant camp and wave away someone who rose to offer aid. Studying her kind,
weary smile, he sighed again and passed his hand across the portal.
It rippled, then lit with tongues of leaping fire: a bonfire, this time. Steel
flashed back its light as three figures in leather armor battled with twice as
many men in black. They fought in a clearing—the camp of the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
black-armored ones—and the three in leather were winning. As he watched, a
black-armored figure took a blade in the face and fell back into the fire,
throwing out a shower of sparks. Small wonder; if those three could fight
their way alive out of the Castle of Shadows and leave more than a score of
the blood of Malaug dead behind them, a few Zhentilar armsmen should prove no
trouble for them at all.
Wearing a smile that did not mean he was amused, the figure let his scrying
portal fade away, stood up, and melted into the shadows. It was time to do
what had to be done.
Eaerun, northwest Elven Court woods, Flamerule 26
"How many?"
"Seven Zhentilar and one ore," Belkram said, counting on his fingers. "Oh, and
that snake."
"Oh, yes—mustn't forget the snake!" Sylune said merrily. She turned to grin at
Sharantyr. They rolled their eyes in unison.
"I," Itharr said triumphantly, "stand ahead of you. My valiant blade has
accounted for eleven Zhent deserters, one brigand, and three fingers off the
left hand of another brigand!"
"Men will be boys," Sharantyr murmured. A ghostly giggle answered her from
just ahead of her left cheek. She winced; Sylune had become invisible again.
They were tired, filthy, footsore—gods, how did anyone stay in armor more than
a day? The itching, to say nothing of the small things crawling in their
matted hair. They hadn't expected the last four Zhents, and had wasted a day
chasing them—a day more than their rations. Empty bellies were groaning now,
too.
All in all, it had been a successful patrol.
They trudged thankfully past the familiar beauty of
ED GREENWOOD
Harpers' Hill. Passing it meant warm baths and familiar beds were only paces
away.
"Daylight!" Itharr broke into a trot.
Sharantyr gritted her teeth and managed a sprint, her raw joints and blistered
feet shrieking in protest. Catching up to Itharr a bare three paces from
Treesedge, she snarled, "Walk across someone's crops, and they'll kill you! We
go that way until we strike the road!"
She pointed, and Itharr gave her a dirty look. He sighed and began to trudge
in the indicated direction. Tou never spared two breaths about turnips
before!"
"I was never hungry enough to eat raw turnips before!" Sharantyr snarled back
at him.
Behind them, Belkram chuckled wearily and waved a hand. "Lead on, the pair of
you . . . and talk to me of roast goose, and gravy and old ale ... ham and
dressed pheasant and stuffed snake—not gods-be-kissed turnipsr
"Ye gods!" Itharr cried, slapping his forehead. "The snake! You forgot to
bring the snake!" He turned reproachful eyes on Belkram. "We could've eaten
that snake!"
"No," Belkram corrected, "You could've eaten that snake. I saw all the human
skulls in its lair."
"Death, death, death," Sharantyr muttered. "Is that all adventurers talk
about?"
Belkram gave her a look. "Well, let's see—there are other topics: butchering
monsters for the stew pot, burning helpless villages, pillage, ra—"
"Death it is," Sharantyr said firmly. "Only a few hundred more paces now. Talk
to me of death."
"Only a few hundred more paces?" Itharr gasped. "Good! Go and make them for
me, so I can fall asleep right. . . here. . . ."
"Oh no, you don't," Sharantyr said, pulling hard on his hair as he sagged.
"Come on—I'm sure that tree wants to grow to reach the light, and it can't if
you're
ALL SHADOWS FLED
draped all over it, snoring like a flatulent bull! Mover
"Yes, sir!" Itharr responded sarcastically, moving smartly forward for all of
three paces before sinking into a weary walk once more,
"Gods above preserve me," Sharantyr said through clenched teeth. "Men!"
"Oh, dear," Belkram said to Itharr. "She's noticed! I guess that means we have
to go way off into the bushes, now, whenever we have to ..."
"What she hasn't noticed," Itharr retorted, stumbling in the weariness of
utter exhaustion, "is that the gods aren't above anymore—that's what this
whole trouble's about... as Elminster said."
"Good old Elminster," Belkram said sadly, putting one foot in front of the
other and almost falling out into the road.
"Well, granted I look bad this morning," growled the wispy-bearded guard who
caught hold of his shoulder to steady him, "but I'm sure I don't look that
bad. No, El-minster's dead, friend . . . and so will ye be if ye don't
convince me of thy rightful loyalty—and fast."
He gulped as the ghostly head of the Witch of Shadowdale came floating out of
the trees to hang in front of him. "Well met, Guthtar," she said softly. "You
remember me, do you not?"
"A-Aye, Lady," the guard stammered as Itharr and Sharantyr came out of the
trees. "And her, too!" The six guards behind him fell back to get weapon room,
eyeing all these sudden arrivals warily.
"Aye," Sylune said dryly. "I've noticed you never forget a fair-looking
female. You are going to let Lord Mourngrym's patrol pass, aren't you?"
"Of course, Lady! Uh, begging thy pardons, sirs and Lady—uh, Lady and Lady . .
. ah—oh, dungr
"And a pleasant good morning to you, too, Guthtar," Sylun6 said with a smile,
floating serenely past the sputtering guard. Belkram met Guthtar's eyes,
spread his hands in silent commiseration, and followed. Itharr
233
ED GREENWOOD
and Sharantyr trudged along in Belkram's wake, leaning on each other.
"Oh, gods," the lady ranger yawned. At a weary stagger, she neared the
crossroads. "We must never let ourselves get this tired again!"
"I tried to tell those last four Zhents that," Belkram told her, "I really
did! But they just kept on snarling and waving swords at us, and, well. . . ."
"Back from patrol, I see," Hammerhand Bucko called cheerfully from his
doorway. They waved at him—the gesture almost made Itharr fall over—and went
on, not daring to stop now for fear of collapse.
"Lhaeo? Lhaeo!" Sylune called, her head dancing up and down in the air to
snare the scribe's attention. "Lhaeo!"
Elminster's scribe was a morose figure, trudging along every bit as wearily as
they were walking. He looked up at Sylune's call, brightening visibly. "Well
met, friends!"
"Itharr, give my stone to Lhaeo, will you?" Sylune floated close to the
scribe's head and asked him, "Could you take me to Storm, please, good scribe?
We have much to talk about."
Lhaeo blinked at her as Itharr handed him the stone. "Of course, Lady—'tis
where I'm headed." He turned his head to look at the unshaven ranger, and
said, "You folks look tired."
"No, really? And I spent all morning doing my hair!" Itharr told him with
weary sarcasm. He set off grimly toward the tower.
"Fare you well, Lhaeo," Sharantyr added.
The scribe smiled wanly and waved. The three rangers nodded wearily to him and
walked the last stretch of road to the Twisted Tower.
"Ohh, I'm so tired!" Sharantyr wailed. "And my feet hurt so muchr
"At least you've still got feet," Belkram said darkly. "Mine wore off about
ten hours back."
254
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Try scratching all your itches," Itharr said without turning. "It helps to
keep you awake."
"Could we ride on patrol next time?" Shar asked as they turned up the tower
path.
'Through all those trees? We'd be wanting some eel-horses, rd guess," said
Belkram.
"Just a few more steps, friends," Itharr mumbled. "Just a few more steps . .
."
Then he noticed the row of gleaming breastplates and crossed forearms blocking
their way. His eyes traveled up to the hard faces above them, but he
recognized no one. Seven guards he'd never seen before were ranged across the
open doorway of the Tower of Ashaba. They wore splendid chased armor and light
helms in the hot summer sun, and their hairy forearms and corded thighs
glistened with sweat. They were not moving aside.
"Stand aside, friends," Itharr said wearily, "before we fall over."
"And who are you three?" the centermost guard asked coolly. "Travelers
generally stay at the Old Skull Inn—at the crossroads, down there. Beggars had
best go to the temples . . . there's a house of Tymora just across the river,
there."
As he'd spoken, Belkram and Sharantyr had straggled up to face the guards.
Shar sighed and let her head sink into her hands. No. No, not now. Her knees
sagged, and Belkram put his arms around her to hold her up, swaying himself.
"We have chambers awaiting us in the tower behind you," Itharr said quietly,
taking two steps to the right so he could lean on the nearest hitching post.
"Oh? How so? Are you, then, lords and ladies of Shadowdale?"
"She is," Itharr said, waving a hand. "The Lady Sharantyr."
"Sharantyr? It's not a name known to me," the guard-captain said jovially.
"Any of you heard of a Sharantyr,
ED GREENWOOD
lads? Eh?"
There was a general chorus of chuckled nays. Itharr regarded them with dull
eyes. "You're all new hires, aren't you?"
"Thurbal engaged us some days ago," the guardcap-tain said a trifle stiffly.
"We hail from Westgate."
"Belgard's boys?" Belgard was a retired mercenary whose school turned out
guards known for their efficient cruelty and alertness; his graduates had
gained swift popularity among the merchants of Sembia, and generally cost a
client food, accommodation, armor, and over five silver pieces a day.
"Yes," the guardcaptain said shortly, "and we've been hired to keep brigands
and ZhentiJar out of this tower, see? So clear off, all of you—now!"
The three bedraggled figures in leather made no move. A light, rhythmic sound
came from the female among them—the sound of snoring.
One of the guards snorted in amusement, and stepped forward. He bore a long
baton in his hand, and used it to rap Sharantyr none too gently on the
shoulder. "Hey! Wake up and clear off! You've heard the order. Now go!"
"Stand back, friend," Belkram suggested gently, "or I'll awaken enough to grow
annoyed."
The guard cocked his head to one side, hands on hips. "Oh you will, will you?"
he said sarcastically. "I quaver at the prospect!"
"Are you lot going to stand aside?" Itharr said. "We'd very much like to
report in to Mourngrym."
"Lord Mourngrym's out riding the northern reaches," the guardcaptain told him
silkily, "as all in Shadowdale know. I don't think you're anything more than
brigands looking for a chance to slip inside. If you don't move on, it's
brigands' chains youll be feeling."
"In one of the cells where we can lie down?" Sharantyr asked sleepily.
"No," the guardcaptain said with a cruel grin, "our or-
An SHADOWS FLED
ders are to hang brigands from the dangle-bars."
"We're not brigands," Belkram said sourly, dragging Sharantyr to the hitching
post on the other side of the path and draping her over it, "and you'd do well
to let us into Hie tower!"
"We're not hired to do well," the guardcaptain said. "We're hired to follow
orders. You're not getting past, and you've spent enough of our time. We're
supposed to watch who passes on the road, not waste words with ruffians on our
doorstep. So get you gone, now, or there'll be trouble."
"There will indeed," Itharr said, from his post.
The guardcaptain looked at him coldly, then turned his head back to catch the
eyes of the guard with the baton, who stood menacingly close to Belkram, and
said pleasantly, "Aldus, pray dispose of these petty annoyances."
"Gladly, Captain," Aldus replied, raising his baton and reaching forward to
take Belkram by the throat.
"Have a care, Aldus," Belkram said softly to him, "that's my Harper pin you're
hauling on."
"So?"
"A Harper pin should mean something to you, Aldus."
"Oh, aye." The guard stepped back and turned to the guardcaptain. "This one's
stolen a Harper pin, Captain!"
"Hit him and take it, then!"
"Gladly, Captain!" Aldus spun around and brought his baton around in a wicked
arc. Belkram stumbled back with inches to spare, and the guard rushed forward,
pulling his baton back for another blow.
It never landed. As he charged forward, a slim hand rose from the post, caught
hold of his arm, and pulled. Aldus's head rammed the post with all the
strength of his charge, and Sharantyr stepped back, turned to survey the line
of guards witheringly, and asked, "Who's next, dolts?"
There came a roar of anger, and five men started forward. "Hold hard!" their
captain roared out, but none of them paid him heed.
+ 237 +
ED GREENWOOD
Two reached the Lady of Shadowdale first, batons out—and she dropped to the
path and flung herself at their boots. They went over her with a crash.
The third man in snarled a curse and kicked at her; Shar grabbed the boot
flashing past her and hauled sharply upward. With a ground-shaking crash, the
man fell on his rear. Then the batons of the fourth and fifth were raining
down on her—for a few instants, before Belkram hit them from one side and
Itharr from the other, and two helmed heads rang together.
Itharr fell on his knees atop the groaning third guard. The man emitted a sort
of strangled whistle and thrashed around, struggling for breath enough to
shout out his pain. Itharr rolled away, letting the senseless fourth and fifth
guards fall on him.
The guardcaptain started forward hesitantly, seeing only two of his men left.
They were rising with murder on their faces and swords in their hands.
Shar got to her own feet in time to face them, her hands empty—but by then
Belkram had smashed aside the captain's hastily drawn blade and run the man up
against the lintel, hands on his throat.
"Call your men off attacking the Lady of Shadow-dale," the Harper snarled at
him as they strained eyeball to eyeball, "or so help me I'll tear your throat
out!" Iron fingers dug deep into the man's flesh to back up those words, then
loosened enough to let the man whimper.
"Aid!" he called out in a raw voice. "An attack!"
Disgusted, Belkram bounced the man's head forcefully off the stones. The
captain's eyes rolled up for a brief instant before he slid to the ground, but
the Harper was already snatching the captain's blade out of his hands and
whirling around.
The retreating Shar had fallen back over the tangled trio of unconscious
guards, and Itharr was crouched over her, trying to ward off two jabbing
blades with a pair of batons he'd snatched up.
238
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Belkram snarled an oath and charged around the pile of bodies. He lunged at
the two guards, waving his captured blade. They turned to meet him and fell
back to force him to come between them. Belkram obliged, swerving at the last
instant to bind the blade of one with his own. He grabbed the man by the
armpit, swung him around into the path of the other guard's blade, and with
his free hand smashed the man across the throat.
Gagging, the man fell. Belkram clubbed the back of his helm and sprang back.
The last guard's blade flashed through the leathers at Belkram's wrist, and
the stolen sword spun away from the Harper's numbed fingers. The guard's face
widened into an unpleasant grin. He sidled a foot or so, still smiling, as a
stool Itharr had snatched up from inside the door struck the side of his head
and carried him a pace to the south . . . into the realm of dreams.
The two Harpers looked wearily at each other, went to pick up Shar from the
tangle of sprawled bodies, and trudged into the tower.
They'd almost reached the end of the long central passage when Shaerl and
Thurbal, captain-of-arms of the Twisted Tower, strode briskly across it. The
Lady of Shadowdale was speaking. "Well, I don't think those new men are
trained eno—"
"I couldn't agree more," Belkram snarled, cradling Sharantyr's head against
his shoulder.
"Aye," Itharr agreed, casting a guard's sword to the tiles at Thurbal's feet.
"Next time you hire seven dolts from Belgard, be sure he remembers to send
their brains along with them!"
Thurbal gaped at the three of them, but Shaerl turned to her captain-of-arms
and snapped, "Get fresh guards for the doors—and send all the servants you can
find here, as fast as they can move!"
She guided the three rangers to a bench and rang the nearest gong furiously.
To the first servant who
ED GREENWOOD
appeared, she snapped, "Send everyone here at once! Then fill my lord's
bath—the new big one, and mind the water's hot! Get help, but do it fast!"
To the second she snarled, "Three carry-chairs, and men to bear them, back
here as fast as you're able!"
Then she turned her head as the kitchen door opened. Turk? Bring whatever you
have roasting—and all the breads and cheeses you can lay hands on, and the
best wine you can get—to my lord's chamber at once!"
"Impressive," Belkram murmured to her just before he fell asleep.
"Indeed," Shaerl told him gently. She looked down the hall to the doors, where
armsmen were carrying in seven limp armored forms under Thurbal's coldly
furious eye.
Itharr woke once on the stairs, swaying in his chair to murmur, "Killed a lot
of Zhents for you . . ."
"Eat first," Shaerl told him, guiding the chair across the parlor. "We'll talk
later."
"Bathe first," Sharantyr announced firmly.
"Nay, Lady," one of the armsmen said gently as he set her chair down. "For ye,
it's sleep first." The lady ranger's head lolled to one side as she began to
gently snore; she heard him only in her dreams.
"Get this armor off them," Shaerl told the armsman, unbuckling and tugging at
Sharantyr's body for all she was worth.
"Haste or care, Lady?"
"Care for them . . . haste otherwise," she replied briskly, hurling a vambrace
across the room. It struck the far wall with a crash that made a serving girl
wince—and when the armsmen enthusiastically followed Shaerl's example, the
maid covered her ears and fled. The air quickly filled with flying pieces of
armor.
Amid the clangor, puffing relays of servants speedily filled the gigantic
copper tub. Shaerl herself added the soap and wyverntail oil, then turned back
to the arms-
4-24O +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
men. "Get some rope," she ordered the nearest one. "I don't want them
drowning."
"Aye, Lady."
Striding to her wardrobe, Shaerl snatched the doors open and took the first
three garments off their pegs without looking. Sliding them under the arms of
each ranger—gods, the reek!—and across their chests, she flipped the ends of
the three gowns up for the armsmen to tie the ropes to, noticed that one
garment was a favorite of hers, shrugged, and began to disrobe.
An armsman hovering uncertainly nearby gulped, looked away, and a sash slapped
into him. He caught it reflexively, then looked up to see his Lady's gown
coming his way, mastered a calm expression as he fielded it, and stepped
forward to take the rest as they were offered.
The Lady Shaerl was stepping unconcernedly into the hot depths of the tub as
the other armsmen rushed back in with coils of rope, goggled at her for an
instant, and wisely set about their task without comment or delay.
"More soap!" Shaerl ordered briskly as servants scurried, "and that
scratcher!"
The wooden back scratcher was handed to her, and she set to work. Lice floated
away almost immediately atop the scummy water. "Bethra," she said, without
looking up, "Draw Lady Sharantyr's hair out over the edge, put a bowl under
it, and start washing! Use my seafoam ointment!"
So it was that when Purk bustled up at the head of a procession bringing
platters of hot fowl from the kitchens, he found three rangers, grimy and
snoring, slumped over asleep in the huge bath, and the lady of the tower in
their midst, as bare as the day she was born, scrubbing and rinsing for all
she was worth.
"A feast is served, my lady," he announced with quiet dignity—and was most
startled a moment later when Shaerl looked up at him through her dripping hair
and snapped, "Well, off with your clothes and get in, Purk!
ED GREENWOOD
Wake them up and feed them—the others can pass you the platters as you need
them! And have wine ready so that no one chokes—ah, gods, give a bottle here
first! This is thirsty work!"
A grinning kitchen-boy uncorked a bottle and handed it to his lady, who winked
at him and said, "You're small enough! Pick up a brush, off with those, and
get in here!" She took a swig of wine, gasped in satisfaction, looked at one
of the armsmen, and snapped, "More hot water!"
Hastening down the stairs to obey, the armsman met one of his fellows
hastening the other way with a basin slopping in his hands. The first said,
"The lady's passion for bathing is crazed! Have they all washed their wits out
of their heads in Cormyr? What's wrong with just going down to the millpond
when your stink starts to drive the dogs away?"
The other shrugged. "Overcrowding?" he jested innocently, and went on up the
stairs, redoubling his speed as they heard the faint but imperious call:
"Where's that water?"
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 26
Bralatar and Lorgyn stepped back into the privy chamber of the Tower of
Mortoth and exchanged coldly triumphant smiles. "Worked perfectly," Bralatar
announced, setting down his chest. It clinked.
Lorgyn raised an eyebrow at the sound. "7 went back for my wand and some
favorite food ... I thought you were getting your best spells"
Bralatar raised a decanter into view. "And some real wine, to celebrate!"
Lorgyn chuckled and set down his own coffer to study the four spread-eagled,
motionless figures hanging in the webwork of cold fire.
+ 242
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Hmm ... see? It drains the mage first," he said, indicating the shrunken,
nearly skeletal body of Mortoth the Mighty.
"Is that because we put him in it first, do you think, or because he wields
the most magic?"
Lorgyn shrugged. "We'll have to gather some more wizards to see . . . and
we'll need more, anyway, to keep this open. If these apprentices here don't
work properly or hold enough life-force, we could be stranded here after just
one more back-and-forth trip."
"Plenty of time to go mage-gathering after we've mastered a little more magic
and had some fun," Bralatar said, picking up the chest again and starting
toward the door.
He stopped and turned, indicating the female apprentice with a jerk of his
head. Irendue stared endlessly and sightlessly at the privy wall, her mouth
agape. "Shall we free her for a little dalliance tonight?"
"I don't know if that's such a wise idea," Lorgyn said with a frown. "I
thought of that myself—she could show us the magic of this place, for one
thing—but then I thought of the chance it would give her to turn some spell we
don't know about against us. There're so many enchantments in this place, one
overlaid atop another, that I can't see any way to keep clear of them all."
"We still have to find a way out past those things in the moat," Bralatar
pointed out, "and the stone golem, and the cat on the lawn, to say nothing of
whatever servants he's got in the house, and any magic they can call on! I
think we've no choice but to pull this one out of the thrall and question
her."
"What's to stop her hurling a dozen spells at us the moment her wits're her
own?"
Bralatar frowned. "Strip her to take away any magic she carries, tie her hands
together to stop her casting spells, and with the same rope hang her down the
privy shaft. Dangle her just above the water, where we can threaten her with
the things in the moat. Then each of
+ 245 +
ED GREENWOOD
us stretch a tentacle down there with her; mine with an eye to watch her
closely—so she knows we're seeing what she does—and yours to hold your wand
trained right on her!"
Lorgyn thought about it, then began to smile slowly. He looked over at the
unseeing female apprentice and said, "First, we'll have to find some rope ..."
Shadowdale, Flamerule 27
"Shadowdale ... a fitting name indeed," Argast said, peering through the
leaves of the last tree on the west bank of the river Ashaba. "Where the Great
Foe lived," he mused, "and so many of our kin died. Well conquer this place
first."
"And rule it as a slave farm, anon," Amdramnar agreed, looking across the
water at the twisted spire of the Tower of Ashaba. "Pretty, this ... all these
trees, and the water...."
Argast looked at him. "That's not what you said when we were in the swamp."
Amdramnar snarled. "If I hadn't shifted fast enough, I'd be dead now. What was
that?"
" 'Quicksand,' they call it. Didn't you hear the nice man who hauled me out?"
"Not until he screamed when you started to eat him," Amdramnar replied archly.
"I was too busy washing the mud off... I can feel grit inside me, even now!"
"We only lost a day," Argast said. "Should we cross the river here?"
Amdramnar shook his head, putting an entire day of floundering through the
mud-choked swamp west of them out of his mind . . . hopefully forever. "Let's
work our way around and come in from the east. That man I talked to most of
the night—"
"Before you ate him," Argast reminded, just as
ALL SHADOWS FLEO
archly.
"—was from Hillsfar. I can talk as he did, and say the same things about Great
Lord Maalthiir and the cursed Zhents and all that. We have to talk our way
past guards no matter how we get in."
"Why not just turn to eels and swim down to the millpond? Up onto the bank,
take human shape, and—"
"Get challenged by the first guards we meet, or a wench in the tavern, or a
shopkeeper," Amdramnar finished the sentence for him. "I want to talk to
someone, to confirm that Elminster's dead . . . and this Hillsfar place is
east of here, so we'd best be coming from the east."
"And doing what?"
"Going to ask Elminster—about some strange shapeshifting beings our master
Dundifolus of the Sixteen Unlit Black Candles saw. He'd come himself, but they
changed both his feet into fish fins, and he hasn't yet managed to reverse the
strange enchantment!"
Argast smirked. "You expect them to believe that?"
"Ill tone it down . . . but we should ask for Elminster, and say we've been
sent by some mage. How will they know we aren't telling the truth? Their
magics can't read the minds of any of the blood of Malaug!"
Argast nodded slowly. "Your plans are sound. Lead on."
And so it was, not long after, that two footsore wizard's servants from
Hillsfar trudged into Shadowdale along the Voonlar road—and passed by three
leather-armored folk who were quietly taking a woodcutter's trail out of the
dale due east into Myth Drannor. The three rangers were refreshed and
reprovisioned after a day-long sleep and a bath personally administered by
Lady Shaerl of Shadowdale. With heavy packs on their hacks, they were setting
out on another patrol and wondering when they'd meet with lurking Malaugrym.
By the humor of the gods, neither band saw the other.
ED GREENWOOD
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 27
"M-Mercy," Irendue sobbed as they hauled her up through the privy hole she'd
sat above so many times before, holding her bound wrists back behind her, over
her head, so that she could barely keep her balance. "Mercy!"
Bralatar smiled at her as his tentacles took her by the throat and around both
elbows, holding her so tightly she could barely breathe through her aching
throat. Her eyes were large and dark in terror as Lorgyn's tentacles untied
the ropes that cut into her wrists. He thrust her back, back once more into
the cold embrace of the flames that did not burn. . ..
Irendue's body trembled as the spell energy raced through it, and she
whimpered once before the surging energy drove away her wits once more. "You
see?" Bralatar told her as the light in her eyes slowly died, "you are
untouched. This is mercy,"
He chuckled coldly while Lorgyn arranged the apprentice's limbs apart as they
had been earlier. The endless hum of the spell flames grew stable once more.
"The gate is unharmed," he said at last. The two Malaugrym exchanged a smile
and went to the study, snaking out tentacles ahead of them to uncork the wine
and bring out some roast shadowbeast.
"Profitable, that," Bralatar said, flopping down in an old armchair that until
recently had been the exclusive preserve of Mortoth, and raising one of
Mortoth's best glasses in salute to Lorgyn. "The wench certainly knows how to
talk with a wand nearly down her gullet."
"More to the point, she's seen Faerun shrewdly, and knows what lies behind
what can be readily seen," Lorgyn replied, sipping at his own glass.
"Ah," Bralatar said slyly, "do I hear the tones of a Shadowmaster looking for
a mate?"
Lorgyn looked at him levelly. "No," he replied, "you do
ALL SHADOWS FLED
not. I merely meant that what she knows makes her too valuable for us to
destroy. How else would we have found out all that about the Realms and the
wizards in less than a day?"
Bralatar nodded, levity gone. "You speak truth . . . she yielded much to us,
and swiftly. Enough for me to conclude we'd best avoid Thay, the islands
Lantan and Nimbral, and the slave keepers—Calimshan, that was the name—until
we know a lot more about Faerun. These Red Wizards'11 bear a lot of watching.
They could be almost as much trouble as Elminster was. The Zhen-tarim, on the
other hand, seem more persistent than competent. Would you say that sums up
what she said?"
Lorgyn nodded. "I would . . . and so long as we keep these things in mind, and
keep humans from realizing that there are shapeshifters among them, nothing
and no one stands between us and our ruling any part of Faerun that we please.
You'll take your preferred lands, and I'll take mine."
"I want to see those lands for myself first," Bralatar replied as they shared
a grin. "And what better way than to have some real fun hunting this time,
across half Faerun!"
"Chasing down wizards?"
"Chasing down and slaughtering," Bralatar said with a sudden flame in his
eyes, "any humans we fancy."
247
ALL SHADOWS FLED
1(5 Shadoofs So Shacp
Only the eyes of the two guards moved to follow him as Lord Mourngrym of
Shadowdale strode past the door of the forecourt, heading for the kitchens.
He'd come straight in from a patrol in the northern reaches of the dale, and
there was fresh blood—Zhent blood—on his mud-spattered armor. He was
bareheaded and unshaven, and his reddened, sunken eyes told of little sleep
and hard going.
"Belmer!" he called back, turning, as he went on. "Get something hot from the
kitchens, and a bottle of zzar, and take it to the Old Skull as quick as you
can. A lady guest is giving birth, and the father needs a good meal and a walk
with someone who's been a father not long past—so the gods've chosen you!"
"Aye, Lord," Belmer said with a smile, and left his post just inside the front
doors to rush down the hall. Guthtar, who'd heard the exchange, was already
moving to take his place.
Mourngrym stuck his head through the kitchen door, dipped a flagon into the
stew pot, brought it out dripping, put a towel underneath it, and turned back
down the hall, armor rattling in his haste.
"That too, Lord?" Belmer asked, hesitating.
"No, this is my evenfeast," Mourngrym told him with a grin. "Sylune tells me
the audience chamber is full of
folk with troubles, so Til be eating on the throne again. Just tell the cooks
to send someone to the chamber a little later on to see if any of the
supplicants are in need of something hot to eat."
Belmer turned pale at the mention of the Witch of Shadowdale, and muttered
some prayer or other under his breath as he went into the steam-filled, noisy,
bustling kitchens.
For a moment, Mourngrym stopped beside Guthtar with the steaming flagon in his
hand. "Good Guthtar— tell Thurbal from me that I want all of you men to do
half shifts until I order otherwise. You've been done out of a lot of sleep,
and it's time someone gave some back to you."
The normally terse Guthtar practically bounded into a salute. "Aye, my lordr
he said.
Mourngrym chuckled and clapped him on the shoulder. "I thought you'd find
those orders rode easier than most." He turned to the forecourt and nodded to
his two new guards as he stepped between them. They stiffened in salute.
When the double doors of the audience chamber boomed closed and they heard the
guards within thunk their spears on the stone floor, Argast turned his head to
be sure the forecourt was now empty. Finding it so, he said to Amdramnar, "In
spite of myself, I begin to respect this young lordling. If one is to be a
weakling, why not go all the way and serve the people rather than commanding
them?"
Amdramnar nodded. "I like him, too—but 'tis too early to tell. . . until we
can spend a session or two in there, hearing him sit in judgment."
They fell hastily silent as Guthtar moved closer to open the door for the
departing Belmer. Though they'd slain two of the newly hired Westgate men and
taken their shapes, the two Malaugrym hadn't had a chance to hear either of
their victims speaking—in a sober state, at least—and didn't want anyone to
overhear
+ 249 +
ED GREENWOOD
them now and think the speech of Aunsible and Haratch had suddenly and
curiously changed.
Belmer went out of the tower, and a magnificently robed, bearded man of
middling years came in, with the Lady Shaerl on his arm. The holy hammer of
Tyr, worked in silver, rode on a heavy chain around his neck. "I find
Shadowdale dispirited for the first time since the Knights of Myth Drannor
rode into it for their first time," he was saying in a rich, sonorous voice,
"and that is ill. Have you had much trouble in this time of strife?"
"We are only days away from turning back the armies of Zhentil Keep, good
justicar," Shaerl said gently, "a victory that cost us greatly. The
Witch-Queen of Aglarond—"
The two guards clearly heard the priest's hiss of indrawn breath as he was
turning to walk between them at that moment. He looked awed.
"—tells us that the Zhent troops were led by the god Bane himself. In the
fight against him, the temple of Lathander, which formerly stood across the
way, was destroyed, along with the archmage Elminster and, some have testified
under oath, the goddess Mystra, herself."
The priest came to an abrupt halt. "You credit this to be true?" he asked, his
voice incredulous.
"I do, holy lord, and can produce witnesses whose testimony will, I know,
impress you," Shaerl said firmly.
The priest waved a dismissive hand. "Well enough, so let us grant that the
tales are true. Bane, Mystra, and Elminster all destroyed along with that
temple over there." He drew a deep breath, shook his head, and bid gruffly,
"Say on."
"Over half of our soldiers fell in defending the dale," Shaerl told him, "and
are now pyre ashes; scarce a farm in this dale did not lose someone. Moreover,
magic has gone wild here, and Storm Silverhand, the Bard of Shadowdale, has
been missing for five days."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
The priest suddenly looked very old, and felt behind him for the bench he knew
was there. Shaerl smoothly guided him to it, keeping hold of his hand as the
justicar of Tyr sank down onto the bench and whispered hoarsely, "Storm. I ...
we were very close, once. I'd hoped to see her this night, after my audience
with the youn—with your Mourngrym."
Shaerl patted his arm. "She told us she was looking forward to your visit,
because you had been so noble to her," she said softly. "She spoke of your
valor and kindness."
For just a moment, the proud priest looked like a young boy—a young boy on the
verge of tears. "She did?" he asked, his voice rising in wonder.
"Yes," Shaerl said, "and I've never known her judgment to be wrong yet. I feel
as if you are an old friend."
Argast leaned a trifle closer to Amdramnar and muttered, "She's smooth, this
one."
Amdramnar agreed with the slightest of nods, but just then the doors between
the audience chamber and the forecourt scraped open and three farm folk came
out. "The gods bless him!" the stout old woman in the forefront was saying.
"If he keeps his promise," her hired hand said doubtfully as they went out,
not even seeing the two people on the bench.
The old woman turned and poked out a bony finger. "Now ye list and learn,
Thurton! If there's one thing this young lord of ours does, it's keep his
word! When my man, Undlejack, was still alive, he won a hand of card's off
Mourngrym, playin' the night away at the Old Skull, and the lord asked him his
price. ... A new roof, my man says, as bold as anything—'cuz that's what we
needed, in truth—an' the next day, gods be blowed if the lord doesn't show up
with half a dozen guards, n' do the roof right then! The lord himself, up on
our cottage, sweatin' along with the rest of 'em! And when he's done, he asks
if we want the fence set straight, seein' as
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
they're here . . . an' up comes a cart, after, when we're talkin'—and out of
it he serves us a feast, an' the neighbors what come to watch, too! Tells us
it's no more'n we deserve!"
She turned and marched out of the forecourt, then pivoted back to face the
astonished Thurton. "Ye find me another lord anywhere as does that for me—an'
others what ain't high and mighty, an' can't do him anything great in return!
Ye'll be lookin' from the Sword Coast to the weird lands past Thay, an' not be
findin' one, neither!"
Another two dalefolk strode out, one of them weeping, and the other walking
awkwardly beside her. "Now, Nan—he can't raise to life someone he can't find!
He did say he'd walk you around those laid out in the temple for burial, to
see if we can find him. No one could do more."
The next person to come to the door was Mourngrym, his face pinched with
sorrow. Shaerl leapt up and threw her arms around him. "My love," she said in
a low, tender voice as their arms tightened around each other. He kissed her
gently, as if they were alone in the room, before lifting his head and saying,
"Shaerl, ask Thurbal to pass the word. No one's seen Aglyn's grandsire since
the battle, and Nan's beside herself not knowing. If anyone . .."
Mourngrym's gaze fell upon the priest of Tyr, waiting patiently to be
introduced, and his face lit up. "Most Holy Arbeth! Be welcome, please, in
Shadowdale! I'm sorry I didn't see you at once! Have you eaten?"
"If we could talk for just a few breaths, Lord Mourngrym, I'd be delighted to
dine with you and your beautiful lady. I'd hoped also to meet the Lady Storm,
but I hear she's . . . not to be found."
"That is so, I fear," Mourngrym said, "but come in, and we'll talk, the three
of us—oh, yes: my lady and I rule as one." The priest's eyebrows were still
raised as the doors of the audience chamber swung shut behind
the three of them.
"He's a good ruler," Amdramnar said grudgingly.
"All the better for us, then," Argast said. "Let him manage our cattle until
we're ready to rule here."
"Our foes the three bold rangers seem to have just departed on patrol... do we
chase after them?"
"No, let them go. They'll return to us—and then we'll feed."
"Eat them?"
"Yes—I mean to eat them alive, limb by limb, slowly, while they plead. Well
use our everfire wand to seal the joints and keep them living. They may last
several days."
"And then?"
Then we'll reveal ourselves, and start on the rest of these cattle."
They had just time to fall silent and look as if they'd been that way for some
time when a tall, silver-haired figure strode through the front doors,
exchanged a salute, a wink, and a blown kiss that left old Guthtar blushing,
turned into the forecourt, and strode to the audience chamber doors.
Argast turned. "Ah, my La—"
"Hist!" Amdramnar and Guthtar said together, reaching to silence him. Storm
turned, gave them all a cheery wave, and flung the doors wide.
That's Lady Storm!" Guthtar snarled in a whisper. "Never stop her going
anywhere!" By common accord, the three guards had moved hurriedly to look
through the closing doors—in time to see Storm, with a joyous laugh, sweep the
justicar of Tyr up into the air as if he was a boy, then bring him down to her
lips.
"Ye gods," Argast said, for Guthtar's benefit. "Guarding folk around here's
going to be a lot more interesting than I'd dared hope!"
"A lot more fun, too," Guthtar whispered hoarsely, and trotted back to his
post.
The two Malaugrym exchanged glances. These folk of
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Faerun seemed to care for each other a lot more than any of the blood of
Malaug ever had . . . and laughed a lot more, too. . . .
'f- his tentacles as she fought for calm.
The Malaugrym smiled softly. "Not yet, so long as you are obedient, Lady . . .
not yet."
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 29
Cold fire flickered, and Irendue was free of the endless nothingness and
blinking away tears to stare into the darkly handsome face of one of the cruel
shapeshifters ... a human face whose eyes were two dark flames.
Irendue swallowed as he took her hand and lowered her gently to the privy
chamber floor. The air was cool on her bare skin. She shivered as the monster
smiled at her.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, voice quavering despite herself.
"Not yet, Lady." He drew her firmly out of the room, past the humming lines of
white fire that held the suspended bodies of the master and her two fellow
apprentices.
"My name is Bralatar," he said as he guided her into the study and sat her in
the master's chair. Once she was seated, two tentacles slid gently around her
wrists, and another captured both of her ankles, but their coils held her
loosely, almost gently.
"What do you want of me?" she whispered. "And where is ... the other one?"
"Not far away, exploring this impressive estate," Bralatar replied, "but we
can speak more freely later . . . after you've shown me how to do a certain
something with this."
He held up Mortoth's crystal ball. The glossy sphere, larger than a man's
head, shone back the fire of his eyes. His smile was not a pleasant thing to
see.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, trembling under
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Flamerule 29
"1 understand Storm's concern about their living on to rise behind her and
slay again after the battle seems won," Khelben muttered in exasperation, "but
when one uses Mystra's fire on anything, not a lot is left to work with!"
"Alassra turned a dozen or more Malaugrym into mushrooms at Irythkeep," Laeral
reminded him, "and they fell from a height to shatter on rocks. Surely some
residue remains there, however small, that we could use...."
"Then go to the Cavern Perilous and cast whatever is needful to bring some of
that residue here!"
Laeral glided close to plant a fond kiss on the ear of the lord mage of
Waterdeep as he stood staring and sweating into the heart of a slowly spinning
magical construct in the air before him. She left the chamber.
The construct wavered, billowed varicolored smoke, and collapsed, flying apart
into spreading motes of dust and light. Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun gave the
scattering residue his best scowl, sighed, and strode to his favorite
armchair. For more than a day now, with Laeral at his side, he'd been working
feverishly on a spell to trace Malaugrym or prevent them from shapeshifting
freely ... preferably both.
He sipped at the elverquisst in his glass, turning it slightly so that the
flecks of gold in the smooth, iridescent heart of the ruby liquor sparkled in
the light of Laeral's latest spell—a spell that conjured a ring of dancing
radiances that looked like candle flames.
Briefly he wondered if he should watch over his lady,
2.$$
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
to see that nothing ill befell her in the Cavern Perilous, a vast cave in the
heart of Mount Waterdeep, which they used when working magics that might prove
damaging to the surroundings. Nowadays, with magic gone wild, Khelben thought
sourly, just about any spell could prove damaging to the surroundings.
He'd barely had that thought when the air across the room shimmered and
sparkled. His beloved smiled at him as she crossed the room, a stone in her
hands, the black spatters of long-dried mushroom clear upon it.
With a smile, Khelben bounded up out of his chair, feeling the familiar
excitement of the chance to work truly new magic.
Then he saw the brightness of unshed tears in Laeral's eyes, and looked a
wordless question at her as he came forward, arms out to hold and comfort her.
His lady sighed as she came into his embrace. "I wish Elminster were still
with us. Even more than holy Mys-tra, his presence—gruff ways and all—made me
feel all was right in Faerun, underneath the troubles of the day."
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 30
"I'm sure I saw someone walking through the trees just about.. . here," Shar
whispered. The three rangers crouched together amid a close-grown stand of
massive dark trunks—shadowtops that had stood on this slope for nigh a
thousand years.
""What sort of someone?" Itharr asked her. "Human?"
"A youngish man, in robes, going from down there, along this slope, toward
somewhere that way. I think he was on his way back after a call of nature."
"On his way back to a camp, or a halted group of wayfarers," Belkram mused.
"Either way, we'd best be cautious when going where this knave you saw was
headed, for fear of being seen by a sentry—or blundering into the heart of a
group of foes."
Sharantyr laid a silencing hand on his arm and pointed back the way they'd
come. All three strained to see and hear something. After a moment, Itharr
caught sight of a furry animal moving away and said reassuringly, "Badger ...
a big one, but a badger."
"That's not reassuring," Shar said, her face inches from his, "because I saw
it, too . . . and what I saw go behind that tree stood on two legs and had
several eyes, on stalks."
"Malaugrym," Belkram said bleakly. "Hunting us?"
"Why else would it be here, in the depths of the Elven Court woods, where
creatures to devour or hide among are relatively few?" Shar replied.
"Doppelgangers like cities, where there's prey in every alley and folk to hide
among on every corner. Of course it's after us."
"I'm vastly reassured to know we now know what's going on," Itharr said with a
grin. "I'll be ecstatic if someone details what, by the skulls of the Seven
Lost Gods, we do now ?"
Behind them, from just about where they'd been peering at the probable
Malaugrym, there came a sudden shout of alarm and the sharp 'whump' of a
spell-burst, followed by a crackling of brush and somebody crying out an
incantation in desperate haste.
"That's easy," Belkram said with a wolfish grin. He waved a hand in the
direction of the commotion. "We sit and watch."
Thuruthein Tlar was determined to impress his master. Orth Lantar was the
wisest Red Wizard Thuruthein had ever met—and wise Red Wizards guarded and
rewarded those who were truly loyal to them, for there was no more rare
commodity in all of Thay.
Prestym, lyrit, and the others were the sort of
+ 9.57
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ambitious, scheming apprentices that surrounded every Red Wizard; a seething
mass of fawning back-stabbers who were little better than fodder. Thuruthein
suspected Orth Lantar knew their true worth—and probably intended to spend the
lives of more than a few of them in his stated attempt to penetrate the ruined
elven city of Myth Drannor and find some of its fabled magic. Thuruthein was
determined not to be counted among the expendable.
So when three humans in leather armor came skulking around the camp—brigands,
for certain—in his watch field and during his sentry duty, Thuruthein knew
just what to do.
He'd stood up behind his tree and was aiming the wand very carefully at the
face of the woman, humming in anticipation and noting her wild beauty with the
briefest of appreciative regret—when he heard the smallest of sounds close
behind him and whirled about, heart leaping into his throat.
To see himself grinning back at him! A Thuruthein Tlar with tentacles instead
of hands. Those tentacles were stretched out an impossibly long way, like two
hungry snakes, so as to be almost around Thuruthein's throat!
Orth Lantar's senior apprentice trembled, swallowed, and fired his wand with
commendable calmness—only to have his foe collapse like a felled tree before
the spell-burst, falling beneath most of its harm.
It gathered itself and lunged at him with a forest of tentacles.
Backing away in sudden real terror, Thuruthein stammered the most powerful
incantation he knew.
The blazing beam of destruction seared the body that so resembled his own
almost entirely away to ashes— but something dark and huge and very fast
indeed reared up out of the leaves right in front of him, and seven mouths
opened hungrily.
Thuruthein had barely time left to scream, "No! Noooo! I was loyal, Master! I
was loyaaaaaah—"
258
"A loyal Red Wizard's apprentice?" Belkram asked, raising his eyebrows. "A
rare gem indeed!"
"Belt up," Shar hissed at him, "and let's get out of here! / don't want to get
caught between a Malaugrym looking for us and an angry Red Wizard!"
"You don't?" Itharr asked as they sprinted frantically away through the woods.
"Where's your sense of adventurer
The map held in midair before him, in the teeth of four floating skulls, was
finally beginning to make sense. If one placed the balefire rune in the
emptiness within the circle of nine black blades, a sequence of directions was
revealed, leading to , . . what, by the fires?
Orth Lantar's head snapped up from the map as his crystal ball flashed a
blinding red and began to shudder, rattling in the carved cup that formed the
head of his staff. At the same time, a binding in his mind shifted
uneasily—then snapped, flooding his thoughts with a brief, fading pain and a
frantic calling. . . .
Thuruthein? By the Seven Serpents! Orth Lantar whirled, snatching up his most
mighty wand from the table. "To me!" he called, and flung up his hand. His
most powerful staff was leaping across the tent toward it when he felt an
inward tremor, and sighed. His best apprentice was dead.
The staff smacked into his palm, and the Red Wizard spun around again to fix
the crystal ball with coldly furious eyes. Under his steady glare the scrying
sphere quieted and cleared—and in its depths he saw a wolf lift bloody jaws
from Thuruthein's torn face. The creature twisted horribly and become a larger
thing, like a bear with four long, spidery arms, shaggy hair, and
ED GREENWOOD
piercing talons. It raised its head and sniffed the air, gave a horribly human
laugh, and shambled purposefully away, not even glancing back at the
apprentice's sprawled body and vainly lifted hands.
"An attack that robs me of something so valuable must be swiftly avenged,"
Orth Lantar told the nearest skull, "lest some rival behind it misread it as
weakness and send all sorts of petty annoyances in its wake."
"Swift strikes the avenger, and towers topple toward the sunset," the skull
intoned. The Red Wizard stiffened and stared at it in amazement. He shook his
head, feeling suddenly dangerously close to tears. This must be one of
Thuruthein's last pranks!
He set the warding rod to guard the magic in his tent from interlopers and
shot a last look at the scene in the crystal. Rings winked on his fingers—and
he vanished. Four skulls tumbled to the floor, the conjured map fading away to
nothingness once more. There came a startled exclamation from the apprentice
on watch outside the tent.
"Master?" an anxious male voice called. "Master?"
At the lack of reply, its owner was emboldened enough to part the tent with
the rod that bore the hand of a dead man, and peer within. In eerie silence,
four human skulls rose to face him. Radiances deep within the rod on the table
and the crystal ball atop its staff winked in unison, faster, and faster.. . .
Prudently, the apprentice withdrew, letting the hangings fall.
"Craven dullard," one of the skulls murmured as it sank down to the carpets
again. Thuruthein Tlar had been busy in the idle time he'd had earlier this
day, when the tent was up and his master was busy setting the wards around the
camp. Now his time was all gone.
The crystal sphere flashed a sudden scarlet, and another of the skulls began
to moan.
+-26O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Where, by the beard of Elminster, are we running to, anyway?" Belkram gasped
as they topped a rise and headed down a fern-choked gully. "What makes one
part of this old forest any safer than another?"
"Ask her," Itharr grunted as, side by side, they rounded a riven stump. He
jerked his hand back at Sharantyr, who was watching their rear, ready blade in
hand. "She's t—"
The rest of his words were lost in a sudden rush from the side of the gully, a
plunging fury of flashing talons and dark hairy bulk and gleaming fangs.
Belkram was thrown off his feet to crash heavily through thorns and dead
branches, and heard Sharantyr scream as she charged. He snatched at his blade
as something large and dark and hairy clawed him . . . something that was
crouched atop Itharr, raking its talons and surging forward to bite down at
the ranger beneath it with a horrible wet crunching sound that made Belkram
wince as his blade finally grated free of its scabbard. Too late.
2.61
17 All Too Much Magic
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 30
The fire was so cold, so utterly ... cold. Its chill made her limbs tremble,
helplessly and endlessly, as it rushed through her and on around the web.
Irendue gasped at its icy searing, feeling her teeth chatter uncontrollably as
she stared at the all-too-familiar walls and ceiling of the privy chamber . .
. and wished she could die.
The one called Bralatar had promised her death . . . after he and his
companion were finished with her. She could still feel the cold slime of his
tentacles slithering into her ear and out her nose, and the casual way in
which he'd pointed out, as she gagged and wept, that simply expanding his
tentacle at this moment would cause her head to explode like a rotten fruit,
giving him his most favorite of meals ... still-warm human.
Irendue swallowed, sick at the thought, and almost let her head sink back into
the endless white fire. It would be so easy to just surrender.. . .
Aye, surrender and die in slow, screaming agony while the two shapeshifting
monsters gloated over her.. .
Irendue swallowed again, and looked beside her at the master, hanging
slack-jawed and unseeing, virtually a
ALL SHADOWS FLED
skeleton, his hair falling out in clumps from a shriveled scalp. Mortoth had
been vigorous and strong, brusque even, but when he took her to his bed, he'd
shaken with passion long pent up. . . . She looked again at his shriveled ruin
and shuddered at what he'd become.
It was the first time she'd been free to see or think about anything without
one of the shapeshifters ordering her about. The one called Bralatar had been
careless in his haste, so confident of her trembling fear that he'd thrust her
back into the web of fire and simply pushed at her face as he turned away. But
her head had passed between two strands of the enchanted everfire, and so
remained free.
His eagerness to be ahunting had let Irendue Nuen-tar, most favored but least
powerful of the apprentices of Mortoth the Mighty, keep her wits, but she
could take no advantage of that while she trembled in the grip of the spell.
She was caught in some sort of gate that took the two monsters to and from
their home. Even more chilling than the thoughts that her life— and that of
the master and Turnold and Lareth—kept the gate open, that it sucked energy
out of them to do its work, was the thought of how many more shapeshifters
might dwell at the other end of that gate . . . free to spill into Faerun at
any time, to take the shapes of kings and merchant princes and wizards alike,
and ruthlessly rise to rule all.
And what if they disagreed, as men always seem to, and fell to war? They could
change shapes like flitting leaves to suit their purposes. The men, so
helpless by comparison, would fall in their thousands and stain all Toril dark
crimson with their spilled blood. . . . She had to get free.
So much depended on her. She simply must win free of this evil spell, but how?
Even now, one shapeshifter must be tiring of the hangings and statues and
little carved things Mortoth had gathered in his long life of sorcery and be
turning
+ 2(53*
ED GREENWOOD
back through the labyrinthine ring-shaped house, toward this tower. The other
must be hunting down the three grim rangers she'd seen him watching on their
cautious creepings through an ancient forest.
The ball! The master's scrying crystal! She'd never dared do this for fear of
Mortoth's wrath, but. . . She looked at the thing of bones beside her, then
looked away again.
Slowly and carefully, Irendue lifted her head and called, "Buldimer! To me!"
There was a thrumming sound from the unseen doorway behind her, and Irendue's
heart leapt. It pleased Mortoth to give names to the items he'd personally
enchanted, that he might summon them in need. With this evil spell linking her
to the master, it seemed the items would answer her call!
To me!" she called again, putting all her will behind it this time. The sphere
of crystal sailed into view around the fiery web, flying smoothly through the
air to come scudding to a stop in the air before her, a little to one side—the
master's side.
She could see into its depths, where there was a forest and tiny running
figures, and the flash of swords, and ... a bear that grew a human face and
hands. One of those hands rose from a fold of pelt holding some-tiling she
knew well: the master's wand of pain.
She'd seen him use it on the cat that prowled the garden, and on Lareth once.
She'd even felt its peculiar burning sting herself when she'd disagreed with
Mortoth on what beast shape he'd change her into, and what use of her he'd
make then. She'd never forgotten its lash, or the softly spoken word the
master had used to make it hurt her so.
She spoke that word now. "Anamauthree," she said, softly but clearly, staring
into the crystal, and feeling a sudden surge in the white fire around her as
the crystal flickered.
The only flesh the wand was touching as she spoke
ALL SHADOWS FLKD
was the grasping hand of the creature called Bralatar— and so, of course, its
magic was visited upon him. She saw him stiffen and stagger. From out of the
forest beyond, something came roaring. Something blue-white and deadly, which
washed across the crystal with blinding fury, sending out a lance of light
through the web beside her.
The endless fire faltered for a moment—and with a sob of desperation, Irendue
flung herself forward through a moment of twisting, churning agony . . . and
fell free.
She'd never thought falling on her face on the cold, hard privy chamber floor
would be such a welcome thing . . . even with the sick, weak feeling in her
right arm. She looked at it, shuddered, and bit her lip as fresh tears came.
Her once smooth, shapely arm was now wrinkles of skin over bones, from forearm
to shoulder... a thing of death. She lifted it, and watched it move normally.
She flexed the fingers of her unblemished hand, beyond the ruin, and watched
them respond as usual. She touched the floor with one . . . and felt nothing.
Irendue swallowed and looked back up at the web of fire, a thing of stars
through the tears on her lashes. The master hung there more dead than alive,
and Turnold and Lareth, too.
She knelt on the floor below it and shuddered, gathering all her strength for
what she knew she must do. The crystal ball flashed and spun silently above
her, but she did not bother to look at it. Whatever befell in that distant
battle, she must prevail here and now.
Here, and—now. Grimly she wobbled to her feet, unbalanced by her shriveled
arm, and swayed, fighting for calm and stable footing. If she fell back into
the web, this would all be for naught.
She wept anew when she stared into the master's sunken face. It was little
better than a skull, a skull with staring white eyes, no pupils to be seen in
those
ED GREENWOOD
deep-sunken sockets.
Irendue swallowed. With her good arm, she reached out and tugged at his hair.
A good handful of it came away; she flung it aside in revulsion and tried
again, twisting her fingers into what little hair was left and shaking him.
His scalp began to tear . . . and no blood welled forth!
"Master! Brave Mortoth! My master! Irendue calls thee!" she cried desperately,
her face inches from his own. His lips moved slightly, but no sound came
forth. He made no further reaction. She shook him again, and patted at his
forehead and shoulder—the only other places in the flowing fire that she dared
reach, earning an almost painful tingling in her fingertips as she did so.
There was no response at all this time.
Irendue stepped back. Tears fell unheeded to the floor at her feet, and she
regarded her master soberly. "Fare better than this, Mortoth," she said
formally, once she'd fought down sobs to find a voice. Then, with a last great
sigh, she turned away. The great wizard was beyond her help.
His hands were spread, the fingers awash with white fire. There was no way for
her to get them free to open the spellbooks that would respond only to his
touch. The only spell she knew to banish magic was in one of those books . . .
and without its touch, this web of fire remained a doorway for legions of
shapeshifters, and Faerun stood unguarded.
The words seemed to echo in her head, as if declaimed as a doom by a great
herald. "Faerun stands unguarded," she whispered aloud, and looked wildly
around the room, half-expecting shapeshifters to curl out of the air in all
corners.
Nothing happened. The cold fires raged on, humming endlessly, and the crystal
ball hung in the air beside her, flashing and flickering. She looked once into
its depths, then at her two fellow apprentices, spread-eagled and sightless in
the grip of the spell.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Lareth's hair was long enough, and one of Turnold's knees projected out of the
streaming fire. She stepped forward, calling their names in a soft but
insistent whisper, shaking them until the very flames around them snarled in
protest. She was rewarded at last with eyes swimming open, questing dully
about for a moment before fixing on her.
"Lareth! Turnold!" she hissed. "I need you!"
Lareth's mouth worked silently, but Turnold licked his lips and said, slowly
and carefully, "I have always suspected this."
The words were followed by the faintest of smiles. Irendue would normally have
answered such a gibe with stinging words, but now it made her eyes fill with
tears. Turnold's wits were still his own . . . something, at least, was as it
should be in the Tower of Mortoth.
"Turnold," she said, ignoring the tremor in her voice, "do you know where the
master keeps scrolls or items to dispel magic?"
Turnold's eyes held sorrow. "In his grimoires, only. He didn't want us
unweaving his wards and getting into things he wanted undisturbed."
"How can I get you free?"
Turnold managed the smallest of shrugs in his bonds of flame and said, "I know
not, but this gate must be destroyed—or all Toril stands in danger."
Irendue nodded and with an impatient hand wiped tears from her cheeks. "But
how?" she'asked, thinking of all the unusable staves and rods and floating
scepters in the rooms around her. Either one of the shapeshifters might step
into the room at any moment. She had no time.
"The web," Lareth said haltingly, his voice sharp and high with fear at what
he was suggesting, "lives through our life. Slay us, and it will fade."
Turnold's eyes blazed with sudden fire. Irendue looked helplessly from one
imprisoned apprentice to the other until her eyes were snared by those of the
older,
+ 2C7-*
EoGHEENWOOD
wiser apprentice.
"Do it," Turnold whispered hoarsely, transfixing her with eyes of steel. "
'Tis the only way."
"I can't!" Irendue hissed helplessly, standing nude before him, tears rolling
down her cheeks once more. She could not look away from his blazing eyes.
Hanging in the web of fire, Turnold said carefully, "You must. Know, Irendue,
that I have always loved you—'tis why I baited you so often."
"I can't harm anyone!" she wailed, clenching her fists.
"Take the sword the master keeps behind the door," Turnold said faintly. "Put
it in my mouth—and then push. Please."
Her tears almost blinded her as she found the sword in the study, fumbled its
heavy length back through the passage, and came to face Turnold once more.
"I can't do this to you," she whispered. "I just can't."
"You must," he said fiercely, straining forward in the web of flames, "and you
will. Put the blade in my mouth."
Irendue shook her head, weeping wildly. The sword point danced and glittered
wildly in front of his-face until he growled, "I suppose one of my eyes would
do as well, but I hardly think taking off my ears will suffice."
His familiar sarcasm steadied her. Irendue slid the steel between his teeth.
Resting it there, she asked quietly, "Turnold, are you sure?"
"Of clorse hlyime shlure," he managed to say around the tip. "Do it!"
Irendue swallowed, blew him a kiss, closed her eyes—and thrust the blade
forward.
"Gods greet ye, Turnold," she said huskily, giving him the formal farewell.
Her stomach heaved, and she almost flung the blade away in her haste to tear
it free. When she opened her eyes again, she tried not to look at the limp
thing that had been Turnold, but his blood was blazing up around him in flames
of orange and red, and the web of white fires was dim, fading as she watched!
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Irendue let out a tremulous breath and looked at Lareth. "Can—Can you pull
free?" she asked him, and watched his face tighten as he struggled. Cold fire
flickered around his trembling limbs, but after a long, silent battle he gave
up, sagging forward. His teeth were chattering in fear as he raised a gray
face to her and said, "D-Do it."
She did. It was easier the second time . . . and as the apprentices' bodies
slumped, the web of fire faded silently away, gone as if it had never been.
Its passing was marked by the hollow clatter of Mortoth's bones bouncing on
the floor.
With dull eyes, Irendue stared at his grinning skull. She went to her knees
among the dead men, and the dust that had been the skin of her master eddied
around her. The bloody sword was cold and heavy in her hands as the world
dissolved in tears again. . . .
The voice, when it came, was menacingly quiet. "What have you done?"
Irendue lifted her head and the sword together, glaring up through tangled
hair at the other shapeshifter. He wore the form of a handsome, sandy-haired
man with a mustache . . . but his eyes glittered dark and deadly, like those
of a hawk.
"Freed us," Irendue gave him her fiercely whispered answer. "Freed us all."
"You shall die for this," Lorgyn said softly.
"I know," the woman replied calmly, embracing the sword as if it was a babe in
her arms. "Kill me, then, and have done . .. monster."
Lorgyn showed his teeth in a smile. "Ah, no," he said in almost friendly
tones. "Death need not be so fast and easy as all that. I shall use your
sorcery to help me raise another gate . . . and your body to power it. Of
course, that body need not be whole ..."
Still wearing that terrible grin, he advanced on her.
ED GREENWOOD
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 30
"Die!" Belkram roared in fury, forgetting all thoughts of stealth and nearby
wizards as he thrust his blade repeatedly into the shapeshifter's hairy,
many-taloned bulk. If only it were still silver, he thought fiercely as he
drove his steel home once more and struck something hard within, making the
Malaugrym quiver.
It snarled and shrank away, and Belkram lunged after it, catching sight of
Sharantyr's blade flashing on its far flank. The lady ranger's blade glistened
as it rose and fell with a green-hued, translucent slime that must be the
monster's blood.
"Right," Belkram snarled, "let's see all of your blood, beast! All of it!"
His blade thrust down to its hilt into the shifting bulk before him, and the
Malaugrym recoiled, drawing flailing tentacles back into itself in struggling
spasms of pain.
As it receded, it left Itharr behind, writhing weakly on the ground, his
lifeblood drenching the moss and dead leaves around him. The Harper's mouth
worked, and his eyes were blood-red; Belkram knew his friend was sorely
wounded.
Delude yourself not, Belkram told himself sourly, he's dying.
Frantically he chopped and slashed at the shapeshifter, hearing Sharantyr's
sobbing as she did the same thing. Her hair swirling around her, and she leapt
high to throw all her weight behind her blade.
Something blazed with sudden fire behind her. A rolling wave offeree, like a
wave she'd once waded through on the beaches of Sembia, took her behind the
knees and flung her forward onto the Shadowmaster.
Gray flesh opened up around her, seeking to suck her down in and smother her.
Sharantyr screamed in fear and fury, clawed her way clear, and wriggled off
the beasts's far side.
She came up wild-eyed, with blade in hand and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
breast heaving—and gaped in astonishment at a cold-eyed man in the robes of a
Red Wizard, who stood over Itharr with staff in hand, glaring at a
rainbow-hued radiance in the air around him.
"Must all spells go wild?" he snarled, leveling his staff in both hands as if
it were a lance. Sparks raced down its length, and from its end burst
brilliantly blue butterflies.
Belkram was still cutting at the heaving, roiling ten-tacled mass that was the
Malaugrym, but trying at the same time to keep watch on this newcomer. The
shapeshifter rose into a pillar of flesh, reached spade-shaped arms toward the
Red Wizard, slimmed those arms into needlelike pincers ...
The Red Wizard said something soft and brief—and fire seemed to be born within
the Malaugrym, hurling its flesh and tentacles apart in an eruption of hissing
steam.
The riven body fell back onto scorched moss, dwindling into something that was
almost human. Something faceless and sprawled, which blazed with many small
fires.
Shar faced the Red Wizard across their smoke and asked in a shaking voice,
"Why ... why did you aid us?"
The wizard's cold eyes met hers, and Sharantyr was suddenly aware of how
easily he could destroy them. Even with magic fraying wild, he bore several
wands at his belt, something longer and more impressive sheathed like a sword
at his hip, and the staff. Lights winked here and there along its carved
length, and were answered by glows from among the many rings on his fingers.
The Knight swallowed and stepped back, raising her sword. Belkram moved to her
side, his blade also ready.
The Red Wizard smiled thinly. "Another day we might be foes to the death," he
said in a voice strong with confidence and power. "But against such a one as
this ..."
The sorcerer gestured down at the collapsing ashes that had been the
Malaugrym, and went on, "Against
271
ED GREENWOOD
such a one, all must stand together—or no man in Faerun will know freedom, in
the end."
He did something to his staff, and a glass vial appeared in the air above
Sharantyr's hand. As it came to rest gently in her palm, he bowed to them both
and turned away.
The flash of his departure lit up the rune graven in the glass. "A healing
potion of the utmost power," Sharantyr said wonderingly. She went to her knees
beside Itharr.
Blood was bubbling at his lips with every breath. She unstoppered the vial
with infinite care and tipped it deep within, feeling his teeth tighten on the
glass as a sudden spasm racked him.
"May the gods ascend to their rightful places, so that we can pray to them
once more,17 she said feelingly, holding the vial firmly in place as Itharr
bucked and writhed in Belkram's arms.
"May these accursed shapeshifters return to their rightful places," Belkram
said to her, "so that we don't have to!"
"Gnorlgh," Itharr agreed weakly, from beneath them. "Gut thlisgh out ou
my—mouth!" He spat out the vial and struggled to sit up.
"Itharr!" Shar said joyfully, and embraced him, covering his lips with her
own.
"Some men," Belkram said, watching her weep and meeting one of Itharr's eyes
through her hair, "are far luckier than they have any right to be." Then he
discovered something must have gotten into his own eye. The world suddenly
glimmered and blurred and a sound large and raw rose in his throat. . . .
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, early Midsummer Day
A crystal ball spun unheeded in a darkened room in the Tower of Mortoth. It
flickered fitfully, then came to
S.7SL
ALL SHADOWS FLED
a sudden halt. As its inner glow died and it crashed to the privy chamber
floor, a woman screamed nearby, high and despairing, and drowned out the sound
of the crystal shattering. .. .
Tilverton, early Midsummer Day
A solitary lantern guttered outside the gates in the gray hour before dawn,
but its light was enough to reveal the Purple Dragon emblazoned proudly on the
wrinkled surcoat of a yawning sentry. The armsman came alert with a grunt and
stepped back to lower the tip of his spear. Something small and sleek and dark
slid around the gatepost.
He relaxed and gave it a grin. Surmalkin back from mousing . . . and irritated
at a lack of success, by the look of him.
"How now, little one?" the armsman growled, bending over fondly. The cat gave
him a warning, defiant look and minced past. The guard watched him go.
Grinning, the man leaned on his spear. It must be a nice, soft life, being a
cat.. ..
Something that was strong and swift instead of nice and soft smashed him
across the back of the head. He stumbled forward, dazed—and was still
gathering wits and breath to shout for aid when the same something took him by
the throat. It wrung his neck.
Blood ran from the armsman's nose and mouth as the Malaugrym propped him
against the gatepost, hooking the shoulder straps of his armor upon the gate
so he seemed to be leaning on it, lost in slumber.
After that, it was the work of a few breaths to scale the crumbling stone
walls of the mansion that served the visiting high and mighty of Cormyr as
home in Tilverton. From its high site, Lorgyn could see the lamps of the town
winking below as his tentacles pulled
ED GREENWOOD
him onto the balcony. He slid easily into human form ... or at least, the
appearance of an elegant old Cor-myrean courtier he'd once seen, but with
hands like large, flexible webbed paddles—akin to the hind feet of a beaver.
He glided into the room.
The small blue glimmering of the lady's ward spun her awake in alarm.
But he was already bending low over the bed and whispering, "Good morning, my
dear. Alambrara, isn't it?"
With one of those broad hands, he smothered whatever reply she might have
made. His iron strength held her down until her sudden struggles subsided.
When she fell limp under him and the tiny lightnings of her collapsing ward
had finished jittering through him, Lorgyn checked that she yet breathed. She
was alive.
He nodded in satisfaction and set about stripping away the gems she wore at
her ears, throat, and ankles. Who knew what sort of tracing magic could be
linked to the jewelry of a powerful war wizard?
Her own bedclothes—soft samite sheets, no less— served admirably to gag and
bind her, and he was gone from the room before the first light of dawn broke
the eastern sky, low beyond the gray walls of Tilverton.
Breaths later, that wan, rosy light fell upon the wagon marked "Pendle's Fine
Meats." Lorgyn unlatched its side door and thrust his bundle inside.
It was his wagon now, he thought as he melted into the heavy, grizzled form of
Pendle once more and undid the sheet that had covered his prize from the eyes
of any overly curious early risers.
Carefully drawing the door closed, he tore the sheet into strips and bound the
war wizard Alambrara beside the fat Amnian, Gorluth the Great. He chuckled at
the contrast between the shapely limbs of the Cormyrean, the fat and hairy
little mage from Amn, and beyond him, Irendue's slim beauty. She was awake,
her eyes blazing at him over the gag that was her only garment.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Lorgyn winked at her as he tightened a lashing and stood back to survey the
three naked people bound to the meat bars.
The beginnings of a fine collection. If more folk collected wizards thus,
there'd be less trouble all over Faerun, to be sure. Still, he'd be needing
more if a new gate were to be a truly lasting thing. Two gates, with a hidden
one only he knew about, would be even more secure.
Two mages that would be easily found were Jhessail and Ulistyl, Knights based
in Shadowdale.
Giving Irendue a cheery wave and miming the biting off of a finger (he'd
devoured her thumbs thus far, while punishing her, and planned to make of her
fingers a long-lasting snack), Lorgyn replaced the padlock that only he had a
key for, and went to the next wagon to rouse his men. He wondered briefly how
they could sleep through each other's snoring.
"Up, lads," he said, shaking and slapping with brisk enthusiasm. " Tis time we
set off for Shadowdale. I think we're all due for a little rest. . . and
that's the place."
"Urggh," his cook said, "ye want dawnfry first?"
Lorgyn shook his head. The cook eyed him for a moment, then shrugged. Pendle
never refused an early meal, even when it was only cold partridge from the
night before—but this was three days now. . . .
Lorgyn gave the man's back a soft smile, and resolved to eliminate him as soon
as the wagon was rumbling along the last stretch, between Shadowdale and the
Tower of Mortoth. Yes—roasted alive on a spit in his own oversalty brown sauce
would be fitting, too.
The gate guards were almost as sleepy and surly as his own grumbling men, but
at last they did their work with bars and chains. Pendle's three wagons
rumbled out of Tilverton, the first farers forth onto the road.
Even the horses complained as their burdens groaned and bumped along east
toward Shadowdale. Pendle's men rode all around them with ready weapons
ED GREENWOOD
and sleepy faces, wondering what madness had taken their master this time.
Pendle smiled back at them all, and more than one man shivered at the soft
promise in that smile.
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
The glimmer of the scrying portal faded as it sank into the shadows, spinning
away into nothingness. The face above its dissolution was a mask of wiggling,
questing worms, but owned eyes that blazed like two lanterns of raging
spellfire. Worms beneath them parted, and a calm voice said to the vast,
long-empty chamber of the Castle of Shadows, "It is time to move at last. Let
the hunt begin in earnest."
Faerun, Shadowdale, Midsummer Day
The horn had cried out peace and parley, so the guards at the bridge over the
Ashaba had not roused the folk of the tower in swift earnest. Lord Mourngrym
and Lady Shaerl had been in the morning room over a leisurely dawnfry when
their heralds brought word of the coming of a special envoy of Cormyr, Sir
Tantor Dauntinghorn.
Just as they were, the lord and lady hastened down to the sward outside the
tower, intent on welcoming the envoy and seeing to the needs of his large
escort of Purple Dragons and war wizards.
With a glint in his eye, Mourngrym assured the stiff and magnificently
mustachioed Sir Tantor that he was not now standing in a holding of Zhentil
Keep, and that all minds in the dale were free of insidious Zhentarim
276
ALL SHADOWS FLED
spells. He thanked Cormyr for its obvious intent to do battle with the Zhent
evil, given the handsome array of battle might and ready sorcery, come so long
and dusty a way from the Forest Kingdom to Shadowdale—still proudly
independent. He added that he hoped there would always be warm friendship
between Cormyr and Shadowdale—coupled with mutual respect for each other's
views, aims, and continued freedom.
The lord of the dale invited all of Cormyr into the Tower of Ashaba for a
highsun meal as he made himself and his lady available to Sir Tantor, to hear
the most important of messages and views from the Forest Kingdom.
The invitation was accepted. Bells rang to bring servants flooding into the
feast hall just steps ahead of the hard-striding armsmen of Cormyr—and
transform the already-bustling kitchens into a frantic whirlwind of steam and
rushing folk and shouts.
"Pray come up to my morning room," Lord Mourngrym said to Sir Tantor. He led
the way up the stairs. Shaerl followed beside the envoy's personal escort, a
senior war wizard, as they ascended from the tumult below.
"If we can speak bald truth for a breath or two—" Mourngrym added as they
stepped into a room still aromatic with the odor of buttered bread, sausages,
roast pheasant in sauce, melted cheese with mustard on biscuits, and the other
dishes of a light dawnfry, and he drew the door firmly closed "—pray tell me
plainly why you're here."
Sir Tantor drew himself up to his full height and growled, "My lord, this is
most irregular! While a free and open exchange of views is—"
"Mourngrym," said the old, gaunt war wizard standing at ShaeiTs side, "I am
Luthtor of Suzail, empowered to speak to you with the voice of Azoun and the
candor of Vangerdahast. We're here to investigate rumors of Elminster's death,
to make sure Zhentil Keep hasn't
ED GREENWOOD
gained control of, or influence over, this dale—and to strongly put forth the
sixtieth or so offer from Azoun that Shadowdale become a protectorate of
Cormyr."
"My thanks for your candor," Mouragrym said dryly. "Let us gently refuse
Cormyr's kind offer once more, at once, so that no unpleasantness need follow
between us. I want to be Azoun's friend—but not his subject. He cannot have me
continue as the one if he must insist on the other."
"Well, if v/e're being quite candid," Sir Tantor growled, "what's to stop us
from simply seizing Shadowdale?"
"Me," Shaerl said sweetly. They all turned to stare at her. "I have Azoun's
personal promise," she told them, "that I'd have a free hand in Shadowdale,
and that no Purple Dragon nor war wizard of fair Cormyr would meddle east of
the Ashaba until I gave them leave to do so."
"My lady," Luthtor said sternly, "you know very well that Azoun's word held
only so long as you were on your promised mission for the crown... a mission
Vangerda-hast considers you abandoned on your wedding day, cleaving to this
man"—he bowed to Mourngrym— "rather than your sworn duty."
"My lord," Shaerl said, her eyes gleaming with a dangerous light, "you are
obviously unaware of the precise wording of Azoun's bidding and my promise, so
I'll not argue the point with you. Be assured that if you move against us,
Azoun will be foresworn."
"And if we know nothing of these ah, private words, and present the throne of
Shadowdale to him anyway?" Sir Tantor huffed.
"It will be my duty to resist you," Mourngrym said, "and that of all the
Knights of Myth Drannor."
"Their fame is not inconsiderable," the war wizard Luthtor granted. "But do
you seriously think a handful of adventurers, however bold, can stand against
the forces accompanying us? More than a dozen war wiz-
+ 278*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ards are watching over more than two hundred and sixty veteran armsmen in your
feast hall right now."
"And just how long, Lord Luthtor," Shaerl asked sweetly, "do you think all of
them would last against the Queen of Aglarond?"
Both Cormyreans paled slightly. The war wizard shrugged and asked, "And what
evidence can you give us you can even contact her, let alone command her to
battle at your bidding?"
"None," Shaerl said softly. "As with other armed endeavors in life, goodsirs,
you'll just have to take that risk and find out the hard way. Or back down, as
is far more prudent, and go home wondering for the rest of your lives if we
were bluffing." She seemed to think of something, and added calmly, "Of
course, the second way, you will have a 'rest of your lives' to wonder in."
*Trforeover," Mourngrym said pleasantly, "the second way preserves our
friendship, whereas the first loses forever any hope Cormyr may have that
Shadowdale will not ally with Hillsfar, say, or Sembia, against the Purple
Dragon."
"I ..." Sir Tantor seemed unsure of how to proceed. He looked quickly to
Luthtor.
The war wizard nodded, smiled, and said, "Perhaps, indeed, we've speculated
with extreme imprudence. Permit me to tender our deepest apologies, and pass
on to the other matters we mentioned, to whit—*
"What?" The envoy had turned a dangerous shade of purple. He glared at
Luthtor, and snarled, "You're just going to—back down? Abandon our mission,
just like that? Well, be advised that my first recommendation, upon seeing
Vangerdahast at our return, will be to repl—"
"Enough of this," Shaerl snapped in tones that brought the envoy to instant
silence. "Why don't we involve Azoun and Vangy in this discussion directly?
I'd like to hear just what they intend." She held up one finger, and turned a
ring upon it so that its black sapphire caught
279*
ED GREENWOOD
the light. It winked with a blue-white radiance as she stroked it—and both
Cormyreans stared at it in surprise.
Like two coldly leveled spears, Shaerl's eyes caught those of the war wizard.
"Shall I speak to them myself, Lord—or will Vangy stop merely listening
through you, and have the grace to introduce himself?"
Sir Tantor stared again at the war wizard, and Mourngrym looked as if he were
hiding a smile.
Luthtor sat very still, his eyes suddenly older and sadder than they had been.
When he spoke, his voice was deeper and rougher than before. "Well played,
li—"
Suddenly the scene before them melted away into swirling mists of gold and
gray, and left the two Malaugrym staring at the fetid insides of a dungeon.
"By the blood of Malaug!" Argast snarled, "is every spell you cast going to
twist wild?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "I've another." He strode across the cavern and muttered
an incantation, raising his hands to trace intricate gestures. The golden
mists returned. They swirled around him for a moment—and then turned into
bunches of grapes and fell.
Argast watched the fruit splatter on the stone floor and cast a quick look
behind him. The torch in its sconce blazed as before, and there was no
watching helmed head nor shout of alarm. They were alone in the dungeons of
the tower, on the worst guard duty one could draw . . . unless one were really
a Malaugrym, and wanted a little privacy for some spell-casting.
That is, if any spell would work. Amdramnar looked up from the grapes and
muttered, "We don't have time to study that spell again—half their talkingll
be done before we're ready."
Argast growled in slow anger, and said, "Then it's time for you to take the
shape of two guards for a while."
Amdramnar lifted a questioning eyebrow. His fellow Malaugrym was already
blurring and dwindling . . . until a rat blinked at him, winked once, and then
ALL SHADOWS FLED
turned to dash away into the darkness.
Amdramnar sighed, sat down, and stretched into the semblance of two bored
guards sitting together on a crate, down here in the storage cavern. He
arranged weapons and armor to conceal the place at the thighs where the two
bodies were joined, and settled down to wait, hoping Argast wasn't making a
fatal mistake.
18
A Gathering in Shadoojdale
From the dungeons, old and dusty rat holes led up to the pantry. In the
confusion of all the cooks and scullery maids working in frantic haste and
doors everywhere propped open to keep the heat down, the rat was able to
streak through the kitchens and outside. The yard behind the tower was crowded
with youngsters peeling potatoes and carting away greens, but no one noticed a
rodent scuttling around the corner, into the tall grass.
In a trice, the rat became a pigeon, and ascended hi a flutter of wings to an
open tower window.
The casement gave in to the end of a hall lined with tapestries, paintings,
and closed doors. At the far end of the corridor, where it opened out into a
meeting with other passages, daylight gleamed on the armor of a tower guard.
The guard turned his head as the pigeon's wings blocked the sunlight, but
Argast hastily landed on the windowsill. The guard gave the pigeon a glance,
then looked away again.
It was sheer mischance that he yawned and looked back down the hall as the
pigeon was rising up into a man.
"Hold!" the guard bellowed, leveling his spear as he broke into a charge.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Argast snarled in disgust and ducked behind the nearest tapestry, shifting
shape as fast as he could.
All too soon a spear point thrust through the hanging, its point skittering
along the stone wall—but the Malaugrym had shrunk down into a wadded mass by
the floor to watch the spear strike sparks overhead. He surged upright as it
withdrew. As he'd expected, it reappeared more cautiously, drawing the hanging
aside. By then he was ready.
The guard found himself blinking at a buxom, very bare female . . . the most
beautiful woman he'd ever seen. He swallowed as she smiled at him, and blinked
again as she held out her arms, beckoning....
An inconspicuous taloned tentacle that had snaked across the floor rose up
behind his head, reached around, and tore his face off.
Argast stared down at the twisted, blood-spattered body, satisfied the death
had made little noise. But what now? If he posed as the guard, he'd be
attacked if he left his post and was seen listening at doors . . . and this
body would be found soon enough. He positioned it against the wall behind the
tapestry, using the spear as a prop, but anyone who even glanced into the
passage was sure to see the bulge . . . and the blood all over the floor.
He shrugged then, and became a rat again. They were only humans, after all. .
..
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Midsummer Day
Khelben looked up from his work, startled, as Laeral stiffened and laid a hand
on his arm. "Malaugrym!" she snapped, eyes closed, and clutched at her
forehead, listening to an inner voice. "Jhessail's found a guard murdered in
the tower and suspects Malaugrym did the killing. He was torn by talons on an
upper floor, where
ED GREENWOOD
no beast could reach unseen and no strong magic has been worked lately. . .."
The sending ended, and Laeral raised her head, her eyes grave.
"Aye, it would be in Shadowdale," Khelben said gloomily, reaching out to
stroke her long, curly silver hair. "Have you never noticed: nothing much in
Faerun happens anywhere else."
Laeral gave him a tight smile, but said nothing. She was already bustling
about the room, gathering cloaks, wands, and boots.
Khelben stared down at his scribblings and litter of material components, and
admitted to himself what they both already knew: his Malaugrym spell was going
nowhere, right speedily. He pushed back from the table and sprang to his feet.
"I'm not trusting teleporting in this, mind," the Blackstaff told his lady
irritably.
"I know," she replied brightly. That's why I'm rushing about gathering things
instead of being there already." She held out a wand.
Khelben stared down at it for a long, silent breath. Then the corners of his
mouth curled up slightly, and he took it from her. Stepping into the boots she
was holding ready, he took both their cloaks over his arm, strode without
pause to the door, and held it wide. Laeral gave him a twinkling smile and
brushed his cheek with a kiss as she went out.
One of their younger, newer apprentices, Paershym Woodstoke of Neverwinter,
was trotting excitedly along a passage, his head down and a precious spell
tome clutched in his hands. Its covers, two polished plates of ever-bright
silver, flashed suddenly as the lord and lady mage of Waterdeep stepped out of
a side door, spilling light into the dim hallway. They leapt across the
passage like a pair of pranksome apprentices. With a softly spoken password,
they opened the door of a closet that had to be tiny, crunched between two
flanking rooms, and crowded into it together, giggling.
294
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Lady Laeral winked at Paershym just before the door closed behind her—leaving
the apprentice, who'd halted to gape in astonishment, quite alone in the
passage. He blushed a brilliant crimson and stared in disbelief at the closed
door of the tiny closet. Slowly, almost reluctantly, he stole up to it and
tried the handle. It was locked.
He turned away feeling almost relieved—and stiffened as the doorknob behind
him emitted a faint, girlish giggle.
Clutching the book very firmly, he hurried away, wondering how his father
would take the news if he wrote a letter home explaining that he'd changed his
mind about becoming a wizard....
In a chamber deep within Twilight Hall, a lady laughed. "We've more than
earned this, beloved," she purred to the person in the heart of the canopied
bed. His reply was a wordless growl that left her giggling— until the closet
door beside the bed burst open.
"Please excuse the intrusion," the lord mage of Waterdeep said gravely to the
astonished Harper couple as he marched briskly across the room to the closed
door of another closet.
Laeral mouthed, "Sorry," to the shocked faces above the covers, waved a
farewell, and stepped into the closet behind Khelben.
There were a lot of dusty cloaks inside, and she sneezed more than once before
Khelben found the catch on the secret door and led her on into a lightless
passage that zigged, zagged, and opened into the back of yet another closet.
As the Blackstaff briskly opened the closet door, they saw a bored Harper
guard sitting in the room beyond, sharpening his blade. No intruders ever got
this far, after all, and . ..
ED GREENWOOD
The guard sprang up as the wizards strode into the room. He waved his sword
menacingly. "Halt, by the silver Harp and the blood spilled for it!" he
charged sternly—but the two mages were already past him, heading for one of
the doors across the room.
The Harper gaped. "But you're—you're Khelben!"
The archwizard sighed. "Has the disguise spell failed again? Oh, dear ..." He
rolled his eyes theatrically.
Laeral chimed in breathlessly, "We've tried everything. . . ."
As she spread her hands in despair, Khelben touched the door in a certain
spot—and it flared into a blinding glow. The Harper threw up his hand to
shield his eyes, just in time to see the two mages fade away. . . .
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
In a room where shadows were rarely still, two tenta-cled things met,
exchanged grunts of recognition, and rose into manlike forms.
"It's even worse than I'd thought," Hulurran said without preamble or
greeting. "Since Dhalgrave was slain and the intruders first came, over sixty
of the kin have perished or disappeared . . . perhaps as many as seventy!"
"Seventy!" Gathran sighed gloomily. "Will we live to see the House of Malaug
dwindle to nothing, and the shadowbeasts finally slither in to tear the last
few of us apart?"
Hulurran shrugged. There's just one good thing," he said. "Milhvar was working
on a cloak that shielded him from the prying magics of the mages of Faerun . .
. a 'cloak of shadows,' he called it in his notes. If any-thing's befallen
them, the secret of its making is gone with him."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"You saw his notes?" Gathran did not bother to hide his astonishment.
Hulurran smiled. "Milhvar was so old that he sometimes forgot that others of
us have seen just as many years. . . . He hid some of his notes—and the
finished cloak; I saw him testing it—in a hideaway Anduthil created for safe
storage. Since Anduthil's passing, I believe he thought only he remembered its
existence." He turned slightly, and made a gesture. "It's right here," he
added, "and—"
Hulurran fell abruptly silent. Gathran peered over his shoulder to see why.
The hideaway was a small room with a cot, a chair, a desk, and a chamberpot. A
few blank scraps of parchment were strewn on the desk, but the cot—where his
companion was probing emptiness—was quite bare. " Twas right here," Hulurran
said, frowning, "and he wasn't wearing it when he met his end—I saw him die."
"Then where is it?" Their eyes met and held in silence for a long while.
Hulurran sighed. "Let us hope one of us is wearing it in Faerun right now."
"A prudent one of us," Gathran agreed.
They both sighed then, and left that place.
When the world stopped whirling, they were sitting together on a bench in
Shadowdale, with Elminster's Tower rising crookedly in front of them—and a
startled guard scrambling up from where he'd been lounging on the bench beside
them. He swung his gleaming pike down.
Khelben calmly struck it aside and twisted it out of the armsman's hands.
Laeral said mildly, "Perhaps it's the clothes we're wearing...."
ED GREENWOOD
"With all due respect, sir merchant," the guardcap-tain said firmly, "no one
brings wagons into Shadow-dale without our looking inside them."
The paunchy, unshaven merchant glared at him. "Aye, I know your sort of
searching. What's the point o' my coming all the way from fair Cormyr"—one of
his men gave him a strange look, and the guardcaptain almost smiled—"if you
steal half my stock, eh? Pendle's Fine Meats are known from Suzail to
Selgaunt, and I'll be damned by all the gods if I let some uniformed thugs in
a backwater dale rob me of what I've worked so hard for!"
"Then turn your wagons about, merchant, and go around Shadowdale," the
guardcaptain said softly, his hand on his sword.
"This one's open, sir," one of the guards spoke out, pointing at the second
wagon back. Without taking his eyes from the guardcaptain, Pendle grew a
tentacle thirty feet long that snapped like a lash around the armsman's
throat.
There was a collective gasp of horror and fear from men on both sides of the
roadblock. The guardcaptain stared hard at Pendle as his sword flashed out.
"What are you?" he asked, white to the lips.
Lorgyn smiled a wintry smile at him as two tentacles smashed the man's sword
away, and a third rose with a bony spear to stab him in one eye. "I wondered
when you'd get around to asking that," he said softly.
Men were screaming on all sides now. There was a general rush from the wagons
into the woods. Pendle's outriders turned their horses and spurred westward as
fast as the horses would go.
The Malaugrym reached out and calmly slew another man, and another, reaching
always for those trying to flee or raising horns to arouse the dale. Some of
the guards got their bows out, and arrows hissed and hummed. Lorgyn ignored
them as he went on killing.
By the time all the guards were dead, lying twisted
4-298*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
and broken in the road around him, the Malaugrym was feathered with many
arrows. Heedless of the blood streaming from him in a dozen places, Lorgyn
shifted to oxen form to drag the lead wagon aside; its draft horses had taken
even more arrows than he had, and lay dead in the traces.
The wagon of wizards was all that mattered now. Lorgyn led the frightened
horses past all the blood, into Shadowdale. The time for skulking was past . .
. now, let all in Faerun beware the Malaugrym, and cringe in fear!
"There it is again," Belkram said, pointing at Sharan-tyr's pack. "You'd
better see what it is!"
The lady ranger set down her pack with more haste than grace, and drew her
sword.
"I'll open it," Belkram offered, "and you keep blade ready, right?"
She nodded, and Itharr stood back to keep watch on the woods around as Shar
bent over her pack. Something had quivered in its depths ... at least twice
now. Belkram was cautiously turning out the kindling, her candles, her spare
boots and undershift, her gloves . . . "There!"
Two blades flashed down—to hover above a small cloth bundle. "Lhaeo was
holding that before we left," Shar said slowly. "What is it? And why would he
put it in my pack?"
The tip of Belkram's blade touched it very cautiously. Then the ranger
grinned, reached over, and unwrapped it, revealing—a stone.
A ghostly vapor swirled up from it as it said, "Finally! Draw together, all of
you, and bide here until I return— I only hope we're not too late!"
Open-mouthed, the three rangers watched Sylune of Shadowdale fly off through
the trees.
+ 289*
ED GREENWOOD
"She can leave her stone?"
"Storm or Lhaeo must have worked some magic," Bel-kram said, grunting as he
reached beyond comfort's stretch to pluck up Shar's gloves. "Let's get you
packed again," he said. "When a mage tells you to stay together, she usually
means it's teleport time."
Itharr nodded agreement—then they all gaped again as the air shimmered. The
Red Wizard was standing before them again, Sylune's head floating above his
open palm. He gave the three a curt nod of greeting.
The Witch of Shadowdale asked crisply, "Have we a bargain, then?"
Orth Lantar nodded again. "We do,"
"Right. Know then that the Lost Ring of Blaestarn lies beneath the third
flagstone south of the unicorn fountain, in the house where you've been
searching; the white dragon Glandananglar is no more, and her treasure lies
under her bones in a cave on the east side of Mount Ahaeragh—its mouth is
covered by an illusion, but lies below the tallest horn; and the ioun stones
of Thavilar Halcontar are buried a long pace to the south of the duskwood tree
in the northwestern corner of his garden. I'll tell you where the rest of the
treasures lie after you've sent these three safely to Shadowdale."
The Red Wizard bowed. "It will be my pleasure to so serve." He raised his
hands and began, and the three rangers saw a blue-white radiance stream from
Sylune to surround his head and shoulders, steadying him against the magic
twisting wild.
Soberly and carefully the Red Wizard worked a mass teleport spell, and the
world began to whirl into blue-white mists.
"Holy Mystra, aid us," the three rangers heard Sylune say as the magic took
effect.
Then the floating head of the Witch of Shadowdale gasped, and her ghostly eyes
widened. "Wh-Who are you?"
"Midnight," came the reply, echoing in all their
+ 20O*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
heads.
Sudden force flooded into Sylune; her fading spectral form flickered, and then
grew strong and bright. "But you can call me Mystra—for so I am, henceforth."
Sylune gaped at a face only she could see—and beside her, the Red Wizard went
to his knees, babbling a prayer.
He had not prayed to the Lady of All Mysteries since he'd been a young
apprentice, and that had been very long ago.
The world danced, and the three rangers suddenly found themselves standing at
the crossroads by the Old Skull Inn in Shadowdale, with startled armsmen and
villagers staring at them from all sides.
They peered around, wondering why Sylun6 had been so suddenly adamant that
they be here, now.
"Is that the Blackstaff?" Itharr asked, eyes wide. He pointed toward
Elminster's Tower.
Belkram peered. "Aye—I spoke to him once, and to Laeral several times; that's
her, too, beside him."
Khelben Arunsun was casting a spell—or rather, miscasting it. A shower of blue
furry jungle plants abruptly rained down around him. He cursed loudly, like
any merchant who's made a mistake, and strode toward the road. Two laborers,
who were walking along it with heavy hods on their shoulders, looked back.
They let the hods fall, and boiled up into things out of nightmare.
A small forest of tentacles reached for folk all around, and the street became
a chaos of screaming, fleeing people, with armsmen trying to wade through
them. Tentacles grew many-fanged mouths and bit down mercilessly.
"Malaugrym," the three rangers shouted, breaking into a run.
Laeral hurled a spell—and the two monsters were
291
girt with an amber radiance, out of which darted dozens of butterflies.
Laeral stared in disgust at the clouds of insects, unbelted her robe, and let
it fall to the turf behind her. Beneath it she wore a short kirtle bristling
with daggers. Drawing one in either hand, she raced across the meadow toward
the road, Khelben lumbering along beside her.
Horns were ringing out from the Tower of Ashaba, and armored men were
streaming from its gates—men who wore the Purple Dragon of Cormyr.
The Malaugrym were undulating along the road toward the three rangers. As the
three hefted their blades and eyed reaching tentacles, they heard the deep,
bubbling voice of one tentacled monster ask, "Argast, what's that?"
They all stared at what was rising up from the road in front of the tower—a
gigantic black dragon, clutching a wagon in its claws!
"By all the blinded, crawling gods ..." Shar cursed in disbelief, watching the
dragon spread its great wings. One beat sent it over the meadow, where it set
the wagon down as tenderly as a newly laid egg. It banked and roared down at
the crossroads, jaws gaping.. . .
Jhessail looked up sharply as a roar split the air outside. "What was that?"
she snapped.
Illistyl beat her to the window. "Gods!" she gasped. "A dragon!"
Jhessail thrust her head past her apprentice's shoulder and glared out. "Out
of nowhere? Impossible!"
She snatched something out of her bodice and tugged. A fine gold chain parted,
and Jhessail held up a pendant that was shaped like a sphere, with windows
enclosing a smaller windowed sphere—and another, and yet another.
4-292*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Illistyl stared at it. Elminster had given her that, and she'd never said what
it was for. .. ,
Jhessail thrust it out the window and whispered a single word—and the pendant
was gone in a flash of spreading light that all but blinded them both.
The swooping dragon flashed with that same light, and was suddenly no huge
black scaled wynn at all, but a small, manlike thing trailing tentacles as it
fell from the sky.
Laeral leapt desperately out of the way as the twisting, changing thing
crashed to earth.
Both Malaugrym hissed, "Lorgyn!"
Around the cursing lord mage of Waterdeep, spells were going awry in a
continuous swirl of radiances and odd manifestations. Laeral scrambled through
a shower of green lizards, the snapping fangs of Malaugrym tentacles close
behind her.
"Gods," Sharantyr said, her face paling as the three rangers charged together,
pounding along the road toward the two gigantic snake-things that were
writhing and snapping in earnest now, crushing guards and sweeping horses and
men into the air with their lashing tails, "Are we really going into that"?"
"Of course," Belkram shouted merrily. "We're reckless, crazed heroes,
remember?"
"More than that," Itharr bellowed, "we're the Rangers Three!"
"The Rangers Three!" they shouted in chorus as their blades struck home.
The world rapidly became a place of constant slashing and hacking, with
Malaugrym tentacles smashing and slapping from everywhere as armsmen shouted
and died.
The lady mage of Waterdeep was stabbing with silver-bladed daggers, and
Malaugrym tentacles were shriveling at their touch or cringing away before
her. To avoid the bite of silver blades, the monsters began to hurl hapless
armsmen and villagers at her, seeking to crush or
ED GREENWOOD
suffocate her beneath broken bodies. Khelben stood over Laeral, the broken
haft of a pike in his hands, trying to protect his lady against too many
stabbing tentacles.
An annsman was flung through the air, his broken limbs flailing like smashed
twigs. Sharantyr ducked under him, slashed aside one last tentacle, and drew
back her blade to plunge it deep into one gigantic yellow Malaugrym eye.
Out of the eye burst Amdramnar's face, pleading: "Stay your blade, Sharantyr!
Know that I love you—"
Shar gazed at the Malaugrym in astonished horror, blade raised. She never saw
the scorpionlike tail that rose behind her, lifting from a broken thing that
had once been a dragon.
The bony spur stabbed down—and burst out through the lady ranger's breast in a
rain of blood.
Itharr and Belkram shrieked in horror and went mad with their blades,
screaming and stabbing in all directions.
The lady ranger stiffened, and blood sprayed from her sagging lips.
A great roar of anguish rose over the fray as the monster that was Amdramnar
cried, "No! Lorgyn, you fool! She was to be my mate! SharantyrF
Storm Silverhand was almost home from patrol now, and contentment welled up
within her. The familiar woods rose green and deep around her. She did not
hurry. Her boots followed trails she hadn't walked in a while, and chances to
relax were few enough, these days.
A roaring sound rose into the air ahead, muffled by the trees. Storm frowned
and stopped to listen. Were those shouts? Yes!
Shadowdale must t* under attack! With a soft curse, the Bard of Shadowdale
drew her blade and broke into a
294*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
trot, weaving through the trees as quickly as she could.
Laeral darted through a dancing chaos of tentacles, desperately stammering a
healing spell. Too late.
The rearing tail of the Malaugrym thrust the limp lady ranger high into the
air, then smashed her into the dust of the road. Again it rose, Sharantyr
dangling, and again flung her down.
Itharr and Belkram all but clawed their way through a forest of writhing
tentacles to get at that tail.
A tentacle struck Laeral. She rolled in the dust herself, slashing her way
free and scrambling up—to find the air in front of her shimmering! She drew
back her hand to hurl a spell of searing destruction . ..
But two white-faced women in robes appeared— Knights of Myth Drannor. They
raised their hands and snapped out incantations. Their magic twisted wild as
they hurled it, and the tentacles swept down at them, too....
"Here!" Laeral called. She tossed two of her silver-bladed daggers to the
Knights—who fielded them expertly, waved in thanks, and set to work.
The Malaugrym Amdramnar was writhing under the blades of the two furious
Harper rangers, and the other one—the one he'd called Argast—was shrinking
into a xornlike beast with many massive clawed arms instead of tentacles. The
shifting body of Argast was flickering with strange magics as Khelben
Blackstaff struggled to control spell after spell hurled at the shapeshifter.
Itharr was weeping incoherently now. He stood hip-deep in a gory hole he'd
hacked in Amdramnar, and stabbed down endlessly.
None of the armsmen of Connyr saw Storm Silver-hand burst out of the trees,
running hard, but they all saw her swarm up the scorpionlike third Malaugrym
and plunge her sword deep into ffne of its eyes. It shuddered and convulsed
madly under her, and she grimly
ED GREENWOOD
clung to it as she tumbled to the ground, one arm around Sharantyr's broken
body.
"Burn it! Burn the things with oil!" she bellowed at the armsmen. She found
her feet amid writhing ropes of shapeshifting flesh—ropes that rose to fling
Khelben and Belkram together in a helpless tangle into the gathered armsmen.
The soldiers stared at Storm; who was this woman? An old woman staring at the
fray from the door of the Old Skull suddenly tossed away her tankard, plucked
down one of the lanterns from beside the inn door, and flung it.
It shattered, spilling oil down the tentacled bulk of Amdramnar—and Illistyl
murmured the simplest fire spell she knew.
Flames flared. The oil caught, boiling up with a roar. The Malaugrym convulsed
and reared, shrieking, and the air was suddenly full of oil as every armsman
scrambled to find and fling any lamps they could.
The Malaugrym shrieked as flames rose around them, and through the growing
roar of the flames, Belkram cried, "Khelben! Can't you do something for Shar?"
He practically dragged the lord mage of Waterdeep to his feet. Khelben blinked
at him, then said grimly, "Er—eh—well, 111 try."
The archwizard looked at Sharantyr's sprawled body and raised his hands to
cast a spell—only to pitch forward, falling on his face in the dirt.
Belkram stared at the man whose pike had struck Khelben down from behind: a
warrior of Cormyr, who smiled coldly, shivered slightly for an instant. . .
and became someone else.
Someone who wore doomstars at his wrist, and answered to the name of
Dhalgrave.
296
19 We, the RangeRS Thr*ee
Blue stones flashed and pulsed, spitting out beams that cut the air to strike
Laeral and Storm. The two silver-haired women stiffened as blue fire raged
around them—and then fell limply to the ground, their eyes dark.
"With the Chosen out of the way," Dhalgrave said almost pleasantly, "I can
really enjoy what I came for."
The Shadowmaster High ignored an armsman's sword that thrust through him, and
when another warrior thrust a torch in his face, he grew a bone spur and
casually stabbed the man through the face. All the while wearing that deadly
smile, the senior Malaugrym advanced leisurely toward the weary, panting
rangers.
Belkram and Itharr watched him come; they grimly stood their ground, leaning
on battered blades. The three Malaugrym burned behind them, and from the
flickering flames a weak voice called, "Shadowmaster High! Aid, please, in the
name of Malaug! I'm burning! Great Dhalgrave, aid me!"
Dhalgrave never took his eyes from the two rangers, and never paused in his
slow, menacing advance. Ar-gast soon fell silent . . . and joined Amdramnar
and Lorgyn in death.
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Deep in the Castle of Shadows, in a place where thinking shadows glided, was a
grotto. At its heart were two stone seats that faced each other in the
bone-white glow. On one of them, something blazed briefly, then burst.
A hand promptly reached down out of darkness to pick up the largest of the
fragments and sweep the seat clean , . . and a soft chuckle echoed through the
grotto.
Dhalgrave stopped just beyond the reach of the two weary rangers and smiled a
gloating smile at the fearful warriors, noting many Purple Dragon surcoats.
"All the way from Cormyr, just to die?" he asked in mock sorrow, shaking his
head.
From among the warriors, lightning lashed at the Malaugrym, and on his other
flank something that looked like a white mist driven by churning human bones
rose and drifted speedily toward him.
Dhalgrave simply watched those deaths come for him. The spells faded away as
they reached him, and he sketched a mocking bow.
"My thanks, Ladies," he said. "Jhessail and Illistyl, isn't it?" He gestured
lazily down at himself. "Unfortunately for your valiant endeavors, I wear a
cloak of shadows that wards all your spells . . . and hides me even from the
Chosen. I had to 'die' for a time to get it, but watching my underlings
scramble to try to take my throne was richly entertaining compensation."
The doomstars lashed out again, and four armsmen were hurled back against
their fellows, their bodies trailing blue fire. Blades fell from their hands .
. . blades that shone with silver. Sir Tantor Dauntinghorn peered at the dead
and trembled with anger, reaching for his own blade.
"No, envoy, keep your life," the Malaugrym told him. "I shall need your
services to inform Azoun that the
Purple Dragon throne is mine now. My realm will take in Sembia, too, of course
. . . but you won't be bored. Ill be sending all the brave warriors of both
lands against Zhentil Keep—and none of you shall rest, nor fail me, until that
city and all its folk are eradicated."
He took another slow pace forward. "Before all of that, however, I must attend
to the business that brought all of the blood of Malaug lately to Faerun ... a
little matter of revenge."
Dhalgrave looked at Belkram and Itharr and smiled again. "Your deaths will be
slow," he said softly, "very slow." A frown crossed the handsome human face he
wore, and he asked the world at large, "I wonder if I can transform them to
mushrooms, as that woman did?"
He raised his hands slowly, nodding in sudden satisfaction, and said, "Yes!"
The doomstars hummed, dimmed, and grew still. The Malaugrym began the gestures
of a spell—and the two Harper rangers erupted into a last desperate charge,
swinging their blades as they came.
The cloak Dhalgrave wore spoke.
"Yes, indeed," it agreed, and two gnarled old hands grew out of it on the
shapeshifter's flanks, and dug fingers deep into Dhalgrave—fingers that blazed
with spellfire!
The Malaugrym screamed. His hands faltered, the doomstars winking wildly, and
the hands literally tore him apart.
Dhalgrave convulsed, struggling to throw out a tentacle here and an eyestalk
there amid the spreading spellfire—and as the two Harpers came to hasty halts,
blades held ready, the Malaugrym sported the long, jagged jaws of a crocodile
for just a moment. . . before collapsing into a swirling cloud of ash. What
remained was a raging, man-high column of spellfire, with the hands that had
slain Dhalgrave protruding from it.
The doomstars spun and winked by themselves in midair for a breath, then
drifted obediently into one of
ED GREENWOOD
those old, waiting hands.
As they settled, all of the spellfire seemed to roar down into them—and burst
in a flash that made unwary men cry out and clutch at their eyes.
Those stricken did not see the beams that lanced out from the destruction of
the doomstars to touch Storm, Laeral, and Khelben, and awaken them to vibrant
life.
As the Bard of Shadowdale came unsteadily to her feet and reached down to help
her sister up, a familiar voice said disgustedly, "Do I have to do everything
myself, look ye?"
"Elminster!" Laeral cried delightedly.
The Old Mage puffed one last time on his pipe before calmly tapping out its
coals onto the ash that had been the Shadowmaster High.
"But you—you died!" Mourngrym said, laughing, as he shouldered through the
armsmen, Shaerl at his side.
"Reports of my death," the Old Mage said solemnly, "have been—ahem—greatly
exaggerated."
The scrying portal shook as Hulurran's rage almost ended his control over it.
"No!" he snarled, but the other two who stood in the shadows with him kept
silent. One of them laid a silent tentacle against his cheek for a moment.
After they'd stood staring into Faerun for a long time, Gathran stirred.
"If we could get that cloak," he began, "we—"
He fell silent again as, below, Elminster stirred the ashes, held up a
tattered scrap—and firmly burned it to nothingness with a jet of spellfire
from his finger.
"By the blazing blood of Malaug," Hulurran raged in a voice that trembled with
emotion, "111 never rest un—"
"Hold your wind!" snapped the youngest and smallest of the Malaugrym. "This
disaster is born directly of reckless overconfidence . . . even on my father's
part."
+ 3OO*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Huerbara's eyes blazed with resolve as she scattered the scrying portal with
one slim tentacle. "We must not act—we must never act—against folk of Faerun
until we are strong, and prepared . . . even for the unexpected. Revenge can
be won, yes . . . but it may take years. We must rebuild the House of Malaug
first. To do it, 111 need your help."
"You?" Hulurran asked, slack-jawed in disbelief.
Gathran, however, said quietly, "Command me, daughter of Ahorga."
Huerbara nodded to him before turning to the elder shapeshifter. "Are you with
me also, Hulurran of the Winds?" The query was soft with menace.
After a long silence, Hulurran nodded. "Aye. Aye, you have fire enough to be
Shadowmaster High. I am yours." He turned to meet her gaze squarely, and
added, "But we must move very carefully, lest our house be torn apart by
strife between you and rivals for the throne."
"Teach me, then," Huerbara said to them both, gliding nearer, "how to move
very carefully. . . ."
"Lady, we will," they agreed in chorus, and three sets of eager tentacles met
and entwined.
The folk in Shadowdale fortunate enough to survive the events of that morning
had seen wonder upon wonder . . . but there were still gasps and mutterings
and a shrinking back as a ghostly, silver-haired head came floating over the
grass. Gawking dalefolk and weary Cormyreans alike melted out of its path, and
stared at the three naked, bedraggled folk who followed it.
"It seems one of the Malaugrym was collecting wizards," Sylun6 told Elminster.
"And as both you and Mystra seem to be back with us, we'd best be using these
three to bring Sharantyr back."
The Old Mage stared searchingly at the short, fat
3O1
ED GREENWOOD
man and the two women, and they all nodded their agreement. Jhessail and
Illistyl pushed through the crowd, and Sir Tantor was jostled aside by Lord
Luth-tor, firmly leading a line of war wizards.
"What did you say?" Itharr hissed to Sylune.
Belkram put an arm around his shoulder. Weeping, the rangers watched Khelben,
Laeral, and even Storm join the circle of wizards. The mages joined hands
around Sharantyr's broken body, then looked to the Old Mage.
Elminster said softly, "Do it."
For a breath or two, it seemed nothing was happening. In silence the wizards
stood, unmoving, as warriors craned their necks to look. Next came gasps here
and there as folk noticed the radiance silently forming in the air above the
circle. Small motes of light twinkled, grew, and shone more brightly. Swiftly
the light swelled until a great sphere of white radiance blazed above the
wizards.
They heard Elminster and Khelben grunt in unison—and a shaft of light stabbed
down from the sphere to strike the still form of Sharantyr.
The wizards trembled, and on the bodies of the three unclad mages the watchers
could see sweat streaming. The wizards strained as the beam slowly rose from
the ground, taking the lady ranger's body with it.
Through their tears the two Harpers held each other, wild hope leaping within
them, and saw the body of their lady disappear into the light.
One of the war wizards cried out, and slumped over, but Luthtor firmly held
one of his hands and Irendue clung like grim death to the other, and the
circle was not broken. The mages wavered. More than one sagged to his knees,
but held fast to the hands of the chain.
Then a great, collective gasp went up from them, the light faded, and out of
its heart something sprang.
Something soft and shapely and whole—and alive!
Sharantyr fell from the sky as naked as the day she
ALL SHADOWS FLED
was born, and something seemed to boost her abruptly sideways—of all the
assembly, only Mourngrym saw El-minster's momentary grin—in her fall, so that
she landed, heavily, atop Belkram.
He went to the ground with a startled "Whumpf!" A moment later, Itharr,
Belkram, and Sharantyr were rolling over and over in a happy embrace, weeping
and kissing and laughing for joy.
Khelben looked down at them and frowned. "Must they?" he complained to his
lady. "And her without a stitch on, too!"
Laeral grinned happily up at the lord mage of Water-deep through the sweat
glistening on her face—and bowled him over with her own sudden embrace.
"Whumpf!" Khelben said as he hit the ground. "Get off!" he shouted when he had
breath enough to speak again. Grinning faces of armsmen and dalefolk
surrounded him. "I said get offT
Shadowdale, Midsummer Night
The fire spat sparks in the kitchen hearth, and Sharantyr put her bare feet up
on Storm's kitchen table, crossed one shapely ankle over the other, and sighed
in satisfaction. A huge tankard of strong home brew was ready at her elbow,
and she was leaning back against Belkram. Itharr smiled and reached out a hand
to stroke her foot.
"Ann," Sharantyr said happily, "all this, and we're done with the Malaugrym
for now, too!"
"We are," Storm agreed. "Elminster rode the shadows through their castle this
afternoon, and tells me it is a place of confusion and back-stabbing disorder.
Only three of them know what befell here, and plan any sort of revenge."
"Oh, joy," Belkram said, raising his tankard.
ED GREENWOOD
"Oh, joy, indeed," Storm said with a smile, turning from her cooking cauldron
and crossing her arms. Itharr decided not to tell her that her ladle had
decided to drip all down her hip. "That means, Harpers bold," she continued
briskly, "that it's time for your next assignment."
Belkram choked, and brought his tankard down onto the table with a crash as he
sputtered and coughed. There were titters from some of the other Knights at
the table.
"Which is?" Itharr asked, giving his companion an amused look.
Storm noticed the spill, ran a finger up her hip, and licked it. "Aid
embattled Randal Morn in Daggerdale," she told her ladle.
"A simple matter," Belkram said with airy dignity.
"Well, after battling Malaugrym, aye," Mourngrym agreed, "but you'll no doubt
have the lord-devouring Sir Tantor and Luthtor's war wizards to contend with."
Shaerl dealt her lord's shoulder a mock blow, and he put an arm around her
with a chuckle.
"Does this mean your students are taught, and they'll be leaving Shadowdale?"
Sharantyr asked quietly.
Storm nodded. "It does."
Sharantyr swung her feet down from the table and stood up. "Then I have to
tell all of you something." She looked around the table at the assembled
Knights, from Florin and Dove at one end to Jhessail and her new apprentice,
the shyly silent Irendue, at the other. "Whether it costs me my place among
you or not, I will go with Belkram and Itharr . . . because"—her voice sank
almost to a whisper, but she stared across the room at Elminster's encouraging
smile, where he sat in a dark corner, and continued steadily—"I can't bear to
be parted from them."
And as the room erupted with cries of "Well said!" "Of course!" and "A Knight
forever, wherever you go!" the tears came.
3O4
ALL SHADOWS Fi£D
Sharantyr leaned on the table and wept until two pairs of strong arms went
around her, and Belkram and Itharr said into her ears in unison, "The Rangers
Three—forever!"
The crystal ball glimmered, and Laeral turned away from it with misty eyes and
a sigh of satisfaction. "She did the right thing," the lady mage of Waterdeep
told Khelben happily. "She's following her heart."
"That's nice," Khelben said absently, his attention deep in a spell tome.
Laeral looked at him, shook her head fondly, and grinned impishly as she rose.
Three gliding steps brought her to the table, and a little jump and turn
brought her behind down firmly atop the open book, even before her arms went
around her man in a fierce embrace.
She fondly kissed the balding pate of the lord mage of Waterdeep, and felt his
muffled roar as he snarled into her bosom, "Get off! I said, get off!"
It was very late when the floating, disembodied head said to Elminster, "You
promised me another body of my own, Old Mage."
"Aye," he said as they stood together in the dusty, paper-choked main room of
his tower. "Would n—"
The front door flew open, startling them both, and a wild-eyed woman, garbed
in the black tatters of a once fine gown, strode in. Without slowing, the
Simbul smiled at Sylune, took Elminster's hand in her own, and practically
snatched him up the stairs to the bedchamber.
"My body?" Sylune asked softly.
"It will be the first act I set him to when we awaken," the Simbul told her
sister as they vanished around the
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
first curve of the stair. "I'll see to it."
"Perhaps I should get to it now," Elminster's voice came floating down the
stairs, sounding a trifle anxious.
"I have other uses for you first," the Simbul told him fiercely. "Gods, El,
I've missed you!"
Her arms went around him hungrily. In the room below, Sylune listened, a smile
growing on her face. Then she chuckled softly, and flew out into the night.
Lhaeo bid her a pleasant night as she drifted down the path. The floating head
turned to face him. "Lhaeo? I thought you were abed!"
"I was," Elminster's scribe said dryly, "until the Queen of Aglarond arrived.
Then I suddenly found myself dressed, awake, and out here—with this bottle of
elverquisst to keep me company." He sipped at the glass in his hand and sighed
appreciatively. "Superb stuff."
Sylune hesitated, looking out over the moon-drenched, placid pool toward the
flickering torches on the walls of the Tower of Ashaba. "Would you mind if I
stayed to talk for a bit?"
The scribe looked up at her. "Lady," he said softly, "I would be honored. Stay
with me so long as it pleases you." He drained his glass and added slyly, "You
can tell me what it's like to get a head in this world!"
The floating head growled at him. "You may be surprised to learn," the Witch
of Shadowdale said sweetly as she drifted nearer, "that I can still tickle."
"Ah, no," Lhaeo said with a groan, putting his glass carefully out of harm's
way. "No . . ."
The farmhouse shook, and the night outside was briefly as bright as day.
"What was that?" Mourngrym snarled.
There was a confused snatching at weapons and a rush to the door.
The Rangers Three, Storm, and the lord and lady of
Shadowdale reached the flagstone path outside Storm's house in time to see a
bright stream of stars rising from Elminster's Tower, in the wake of a radiant
orb in which two familiar figures danced and swam. They heard a happy,
wordless cry before the sphere that held Elminster and the Simbul turned
suddenly and streaked away northward, into the stars.
"Gods above," Itharr said wonderingly. He turned his head and saw Sharantyr's
awed face looking up into the sky beside his. Leaning close, he asked quietly,
"Do you think we could try that?"
Still watching the distant sphere dwindle into the night, Sharantyr drew back
her arm and punched him enthusiastically.
Shaerl and Storm hooted with laughter.
:     The moonlight of another night washed down over the ruined pillars and
walls of Irythkeep. Itharr looked up at Selune, yawned, and said, "High time
for slum-\       ber."
'     A slim lady rose from banking the fire beside him, took his chin in her
hands, and kissed him fondly. "The *.     watch is mine, of course, O King of
Snorers," the Witch of Shadowdale told him, and patted his arm. "Go on."
"Are you sure?" Belkram asked sleepily, coming out of the tent with
Sharantyr's leathers and his own, to drape them over a line for the night.
"I don't need to sleep, remember?" Sylune told him.
Both Harpers nodded, more asleep than awake, and said, more or less in chorus,
"May the night be good, then." They turned together to go into the tent where
Shar was already lost in slumber—and bumped together.
"Ugliness first," Belkram said, indicating the tent mouth.
"Stupidity first," Itharr countered, waving his friend
3O7
ED GREENWOOD
toward the sleeping furs.
"Pigheaded Harpers first," a smiling Sylune said in both their ears, and
shoved at their backs. They fell into the tent in a chuckling heap, and the
Witch of Shadowdale turned away to look out over Daggerdale, a smile on her
face.
"Sharantyr's first child, at least," Azuth said softly as the two gods stood
together by the fire, magically hidden from mortals and Chosen, "will be
thine."
Midnight nodded. "She'll need to be strong, and soon . . . magic may be
biddable again, and the gods back in their places."
The goddess sighed then, and added almost in a whisper, "More than that:
Elminster cannot last forever."
308
About the Author
Ed Greenwood created the FORGOTTEN REALMS world in the midseventies as the
setting for his home AD&D campaign. After numerous articles in DRAGON
magazine, his world had attracted enough of a following to justify TSR's
purchase of it. From his home in Canada, Ed has been fleshing out the Realms
ever since.
  The Shadow of the Avatar, Book One
  Shadows of Doom
  By Ed Greenwood
  
  
  It is the doom of men that they never know quite enough wisdom until it is too late.
Elminster of Shadowdale

  Hearken now to a tale of the Realms, ye jaded lords, ladies, and gentles. Oh, it is a grand tale, to be sure. It has murder, and magic, and lovemakingand, as usual, you'll misunderstand every word of it.
  Be not angry, mind; the fault's not with you, or me. Life's like that, you see.
Lhaeo Rhindaun, Scribe  to Elminster
  
There is a slim, dark and dusty tome few have ever read....
  
  It lies hidden beneath a rune-graven flagstone under the circular table in the innermost chamber of Candlekeep. This tome is called The Book of Mysteries, and it sets forth all that the writerwhose name, of course, has been forgottenknew of the nature and powers of Mystra, the goddess of magic.
  Chief among the book's secrets of Realmslore is the matter of Mystra's essence or vitality. As mistress of magic, her power is far greater than that of the other gods of Toril. Yet, to mortals at least, it seems not so. Therein lies the secret.
  Throughout history, as long as there have been gods, and people of Toril to worship them, the essential power of Mystra has been held not only by the goddess herself, but by a self-willed, loyal demigodAzuth, who was the greatest archmage of his dayand a handful of mortals.
  These mortals cannot wield what they hold of Mystra's power, but they can withhold it, even from the goddess herself. This self-will, and the mortals' often widespread travels, keep Mystra from ruling all of Realmspace and prevent any other being from doing so through her. Should Mystra ask to use the power that they hold, each of the mortals can willingly let it pass into her, but they cannot be coerced into doing so. At the moment when one of these mortals dies, the power that he or she holds passes into the greater essence of life in Toril, returning to Mystra slowly but usable by none except her.
  Down the ages, many beings have shared this mystery. For their own protection, they have not heralded the power they hold, yet it leaves its mark upon them. They cannot be located or affected by magic that spies upon the mind or tames the will. If not slain, they live many hundreds of years, resisting disease, poison, and the ravages of time. Their eyes tend toward blue, and their hair to silver. They attain something of the grace, wildness, and humor of Mystra herself. And, being mortal, they suffer far moreand learn more wisdom in the wielding of magicthan even Mystra herself. Some, tired or sick of their burden of power, have willingly sought death. Others find death unlooked for, at the end of a searching spell or a flashing blade.
  One who always carries the burden of the mystery is the Magister, the mortal (and oft-changing) representative of Mystra, who holds that title by might-of-Art. Others who hold Mystra's power tend to be powerful archmages.
  Elminster, the Old Mage of Shadow dale, is one who bears Mystra's burden. Two others are Khelben "Black-staff" Arunsun, Lord Mage of Waterdeep, and Laeral, his consort and fellow archmage. Laeral's sisters also hold some of Mystra's power. One sister is the Witch-Queen of Aglarond, called the Simbul. Another sister is Alustriel, High Lady of Silverymoon,
  Of the other sisters, one is a mystery little spoken of. Another, Sylune of Shadowdale, held Mystra's power but perished in dragonfire, breaking her staff to destroy her bane and protect the dale. The last two sisters still hold their shares of Mystra's power. They are the bard and Harper Storm Silverhand of Shadowdale, and Dove of the Knights of Myth Drannor.
  A handful of people, plus one demigod, hold something of Mystra's power. The goddess herself holds as much power as all of their combined burden, or so is the usual ordering of things.
  What, then, befalls when Mystra falls?
  * * * * *
  It was the eve of the Time of Troubles. Magic had not yet gone wild across the Realms. The gods had not yet been cast down in the Fall. The chaos of spilled blood, lawless strife, monsters unleashed, and avatars roaming Faerun was yet to come.
  Unbeknownst to mortals, the gods had been summoned together. Among them was Mystra, grown proud and willful over the passing aeons. With the others, she was about to be stripped of godhood.
  Unlike most of the gods, however, Mystra's pride was born of wisdom, of being part of many bindings and most releases of power in Faerun, down thousands upon thousands of years. In the beginning, Ao the Overgod arranged the division of Mystra's power so that she could not easily be overthrown or used as an almighty weapon against the other godsand so she could never rule over all and would not be tempted to try.
  The secret of her power gave Mystra an idea. She made certain preparations involving a pendant, and began to keep an eye on magelings and apprentice wizards of little power, looking always for one who would be right. Perhaps she knew she was choosing her successor.
  Perhaps she hoped only to gain an advantage over other gods in the Realms. It is doubtful that even the Lady of Magic could have foreseen clearly enough, or acted swiftly enough, to shape the pendant and choose the youngling Midnight as its recipient in the very short time between Ao's denunciation of the gods and the Fall.
  Mystra could not have acted as she did purely to cheat the Overgod. Those sages who have spoken with Divine Lord Azuth (who was present at the Fall) agree that such behavior is unlikely in the extreme. SomeElminster among thembelieve that Ao, the Unseen One, laid these plans in Mystra's mind, because the power of the goddess of magic had to survive the Time of Troubles to preserve the very fabric of magic-cloaked Toril.
  It is certain that, in the few mortal breaths between the doom that Ao laid upon the gods and the Fall, Mystra acted on earlier preparations. She had no time to reach Midnight or the pendant but was alreadyas alwayslinked with those mortals who bore the burden of her power. She had only seconds to act.
  To shift enough extra power to Faerun in order to do what must be done later was no easy thing. A single mortal must hold much of Mystra's power, for she had no time to feed power into more than one. (If done too fast, it would surely destroy the recipient on the spot.) A lone mortal must carry the greater share of the god's divine energy without being destroyed or driven wild, until Mystra could reclaim her power.
  It was the fate, or luck, of some mortal to do thisinvoluntarily and without any preparation. As luck or fate had it, this was the occasion of Elminster's Doom.
  The Overgod spoke. Mystra acted. The Fall came upon all the gods, and a certain doom upon Elminster. Our tale begins then, before mortals know of the Fall, in a place unshaken by the great storms that swept much of the Realms during that time. Elminster and Midnight have not yet met in the Stonelands, and the world has not yet been changed forever.
  As the Overgod Ao is reputed to have said, "Forever seems a shorter and shorter time, these days." Before the Change that everyone alive in Faerun at the time remembers, when new stars appeared in the sky and new gods and goddesses rose up while others fell, a profound change came upon the fleeting forever of one man.
  One man a little (he will not say how little) over a thousand years old.
  
  This is the tale of Elminster's Doomand of the heroes it created.

1
Mist, Stars, and Mages On Their Knees

  Elminster was reading yet another book when it all began.
  It was the day of Aumry's Feast, when the folk of Shadowdale gathered to toast their lord in the name of a much-beloved predecessor. In his leaning stone tower, well away from all the festivities, the Old Mage sat in the creaking chair by the hearth, his long pipe alight, sighing and muttering his way through a thoroughly hopeless grimoire of some long-ago necromancer of lost Netheril.
  The writer had been a perfect crazed-wits, Elminster decided early on, and paranoid to boot. What little magic the Netherese mage had set down was twisted by the periodic ravings of a tenuous sanity and by the suspicion-driven cloaking of facts in a torturous maze of codes, obtuse jargon, deliberate misinformation, and mystical gibberish. The obvious intent was to conceal magical truths from unauthorized readersall relatively sane wizards, for instance.
  "A good one?" His scribe, Lhaeo, was rising from the hearth-cauldron with a long ladle in his hand and an amused look on his face. He'd seen Elminster's disgusted looks a time or two before.
  "About five good breaths of blaze, on a hot fire," Elminster replied, hefting the old tome in his hands and looking meaningfully down at the flames under the cauldron. He glanced at the book again and shook his head.
  "Sixty pages," he said with a sigh, "and only three real spells so far, one of them hopelessly skeltered at that. Yet he may have hidden a gem or two somewhere in all this nonsense. As ye know, I live in eternal hope."
  Elminster snorted, rolled his eyes comically at Lhaeo, and turned another page. His pipe also snorted, puffing out a little burst of sparks.
  Lhaeo chuckled and turned back to the herbs on his cutting board. Elminster watched him with a fond smile. When Lhaeo wasn't cooking, cleaning, or actually acting as a scribe, he was gathering herbs, gardening, gathering or shopping for food, or talking about recipes and culinary lore with every caravan cook who passed through the dale.
  Elminster sometimes wondered why his scribe wasn't as wide as old Luth's fabled bull. If Lhaeo wasn't eating, he was cooking (and tasting). If he wasn't cooking, he was thinking about food, and if he wasn't doing any of those things, he was asleep and dreaming about food. Or so it usually seemed.
  As the old illusionists' saying has it, however, seemings and truth are often as far apart as one's mind can put them. As smoothly as any warrior, Lhaeo suddenly spun back to face his master. He'd heard a sudden, queer sobbing noisea sound he'd never heard Elminster make before.
  And then the illusionist stood quite still, precious herbs dropping forgotten from his hands.
  Power filled the room. Blue-white flames blazed along the Old Mage's gaunt limbs and flared in his eyes like two cold fires. Elminster looked at Lhaeo with those burning eyes and did not see him.
  With a sudden crackling of energy, the book fell from Elminster's fingers. Had there been some trap waiting in it?
  Lhaeo shrank back, reaching out behind him for one of the flasks on a certain shelf. Elminster had prepared a number of such flasks for emergencies. They held protective potions and antidotes for poisons. But even as his fingers felt along the row of cold, dusty stoppers, Lhaeo knew he hadn't an inkling of what to do. The fire under the cauldron had died to almost nothing, and it seemed as if a great weight were in the air, filling the kitchen.
  And then both men heard it: a voice that was kind and yet proud, in pain but enthused. A mind-voice that rolled through Elminster's mind so loudly that Lhaeo heard it clearly across the room. A voice that crawled with echoing power.
  The voice of a goddess at the height of her aroused power, and yet in need. The voice of Mystra.
  "Elminster! I need thee!"
  "Lady, I am here," Elminster whispered. Blue-white flames licked from his mouth as he spoke. He rose from his seat, staggering as if under a great burden.
  Behind him, the chair suddenly roared into a column of fire that reached for the low roof-beams overhead and then was gone, dying in the instant the chair was utterly consumed. Elminster lurched and almost fell.
  Lhaeo shivered in horror at the sudden release of power great enough to burn away a chair between two beats of one's heart, but started toward his master. Elminster frantically waved him back, struggling as if in a high wind, and that great voice spoke again.
  "Old Mage, my time is done. I am going, and have no time to tell thee what has befallen, or thank thee for the years thou hast given me.
  "You must bear the load, old friend. You must be the one. Hold my flame for the one who is to come." A hint of amusement echoed in the voice. "You'll like her. You always do fancy young maids." Then she was gone, with no farewell but a flicker of communicated painand something whispered after it.
  Elminster stiffened. Abruptly, the roaring, blazing force of Mystra's magical powerher very essencesurged into him, filling him in relentless waves. It brought burning agony, daggerlike fingers tearing through his ancient body. He tried to roar but could not.
  In Elminster's numbed mind, the force of Mystra's magic swept bindings, odd memories, and safeguards before it as a tidal wave tumbles wreckage along in its uncaring, destroying foam. His hands jerked and flailed about helplessly, and he fell.
  It had been many long years since sheer intensity of Art had hurled the Old Mage to his knees. He could scarcely remember the last time he'd felt overmatched by sheer power of magic. A wry thought came unbidden then. He'd known this would happen, sooner or later. He shook his head and gradually became aware of a faint, raw, frantic screaming.
  Where? A protesting thought whirled into Elminster's mind. Why do the worst problems always come when one is ill prepared? He strove to focus on the direction of the sound, raising a hand in front of his face as if to wave away the blue-white mists before him. Slowly, slowly, he drifted closer to the agonized shrieking, saw Lhaeo's shocked face coming closer through the mistsand realized the sound was coming from his own lips.
  Elminster of Shadowdale spread his hands apologetically, struggled up from his knees, and fell headlong into Lhaeo's reaching arms as another surge of Art carried him away, chilled and burned all at once.
  In a place of drifting mists, Elminster of Shadowdale gathered his will to banish the pain. Ice took him by the heart and throat as he groped for his Art amid the roiling magic that filled him.
  He found nothing. The Art that had served him for many hundred years was burned away. All his power had fled from him. His magic was gone.
  * * * * *
  From a place where only gods walk cometh the Fall to cast down all the gods. Among them is Mystra, the goddess whose thought shapes and controls the eternal fires men call magic all across the world of Toril. What befalls that world if all the bounds and enchantments of its magic should burst at once, to let the fire flash free?
  The world perishes in flames, of course, and so this must not befall. Even in her destruction, a goddess can strive to do something noble, a last act of love for the world she's watched for so long.
  No time remains for a considered and orderly passage of power. No mortal frame can hope to hold her essence without burning to nothingness. No mortal mind can carry what she knows, without being snuffed out in an instant.
  Azuth must carry more. All of her Chosen must carry more. But one mortal must carry the chief load, lest all perish with Mystra's passing. One mortal must be chosen in an instant. One who can carry more than most. One who can resist the temptation to twist the power to his or her own ends, and by meddling doom all the Realms. One must suffer Mystra's Doom.
  In pride, folly, and despair at the moment of her passing, Mystra knows the mortal who must be chosen. Only one can hope to survive. Only one may succeedand perhaps, much later, forgive.
  "Remember me," she whispers to the chosen one, with her last thought. There is not enough left of her to shed the tears that are the price of her long burden. "Remember me."
  * * * * *
  "Lady Mystra," Elminster whispered in urgent reply, as he lay on the stones of his kitchen floor. "I love thee! I will remember. Take my thanks!"
  He could not tell if Mystra ever heard him, or if she was gone before his thoughts were formed. Elminster looked up at Lhaeo and felt tears wet on his cheeks.
  "She's gone," he mumbled, rather unnecessarily. Lhaeo nodded, and bent over him.
  "Aye," he said gravely, "but what has she done to you?"
  Through fresh tears, Elminster met a gaze that was wary and the gray of cool steel. He noted Lhaeo's ready grip on a belt dagger and made no move with his own hands.
  "I am still myself," he said quietly. "Or as much as I can be with no magic left to me."
  Lhaeo stared at him in shocked silence for a long time. Then he whispered, "Old friend, I am sorry. Very sorry indeed." He knelt down and took Elminster's hand. "Gone for good?"
  Elminster shrugged and then slowly nodded. "I fear so."
  Lhaeo's look was grave. "There is no gentle way to ask this," he said slowly. "You have lived beyond most men. Without Art, will you soon crumble away?"
  Elminster grinned feebly. "Nay, Lhaeo. Ye're stuck with me awhile longer."
  "Then I suppose," Lhaeo said solemnly, "you'll be wanting to get up off this floor. I haven't swept it yet today."
  * * * * *
  In a dark chamber far away, the silent, floating ring of beholders drew back as Manshoon, High Lord of Zhentil Keep, gasped and halted in his cold address to them. He stumbled, caught himself, and straightened to face them again, but on his bone-white face was a look of fear it had not worn for years.
  The beholders waited watchfully, many dark and glistening eyes staring at the human archwizard, ready to rend him in an instant if it should be needful.
  Manshoon looked around at all those eyes, took a deep breath, and licked suddenly dry lips. "Something has happened. Something terrible." He shook his head in disbelief. "Bindings have failed all across the Realms."
  The largest beholder drifted a little nearer. The cold, hissing voice of Ithaqull sounded coldly amused as it rolled out around the archmage. "An event that has possibilities, does it not?"
  * * * * *
  As the sun went down over Shadowdale, Elminster sat, long pipe in hand, beside a placid little pool. Power still roiled within him, but there seemed less of it now than at first. Perhaps it was leaking away or leaving him by some means prepared beforehand by the Lady of Mysteries, or perhaps he was just getting used to it.
  He raised a finger and tried to light his pipe with a little cantrip he'd learned long ago. Nothing happened. He tried again, holding up his finger and staring at it as he gathered his will.
  The spell was still there. He'd had it in his mind before Mystra had spoken, though he couldn't feel any enchantments hanging ready any longer. He could think clearly and remember all that he'd done, but Art simply would not come to his call. Feeling a little ashamed, he stuck his pipe, unlit, back in his mouth and stared out across the water.
  Night came creeping across the sky like thieves' fingers, long, dark blue clouds coming in low from the west. Small croakings and singings sounded around the pool. Amid the stones at its eastern edge, Elminster sat as if he were stone himself, and made no sound at all.
  Lhaeo came out to him with a steaming jack of hot spiced wine. Elminster only smiled a little as the scribe placed it in his hand, and looked up with eyes that did not see. Lhaeo put a hand on his shoulder in answer and went back in. Elminster did not speak, for he was very busy talkingin his mind, which was a crowded place just then.
  The Divine Lord Azuth was there, and with him Noumea, the Lady Magister. There was also Storm Silverhand and High Lady Alustriel and Nethreen. Most of all Nethreen: Witch-Queen of Aglarond, widely feared across the Realms as the fiery-tempered, awesomely strong archmage the Simbul. Elminster loved her very much.
  They'd held each other and whispered their truenames in the wake of the coming to power of the spellfire-maiden, Shandril Shessair. Since thenin their own independent, far-traveling waysthey'd been lord and lady to each other.
  In the flurry of mind-spoken questions, comfortings, and advice, the Simbul's quiet voice tore at Elminster's heart the most. As night came to Shadowdale, Elminster sat amid the ever-louder chorus of crickets and bullfrogs, and thanked his friends for their care and good wishes. Feeling sick at heart, he told them plainly that he didn't know what to do now. Concerned thoughts flew like flashing swords, but in their midst the Old Mage grew ever more tired and heartsick. He was beginning to feel that the power to link thoughts with others who carried the burden of Mystra's power was a curse, not the comfort and safety it was intended to be.
  Yet the Old Mage cared for all who reached out to his mind this eve, and none of them were unfriendly or unperceptive. They knew he carried a terrible measure of power he did not know how to call on. Worse, they all knew his own Art, or at least his means of grasping magic, was gone. They knew, too, that he was very tired and wanted to be alone.
  One by one they wished him well and withdrew. Soft soothings echoed and re-echoed in his mind. Elminster felt their own weariness, bewilderment, and fear for Mystra and for the fate of them all, and had no comfort to give. He saluted them as they parted, until at lastas he knew would happenonly one thought-voice remained, riding his mind with the easy familiarity of intimacy.
  Nethreen. Lady most mine. Elminster let her feel his gratefulness. I am right glad of thy company.
  I know, Lord, came the calm reply. I know. I was ever lonely until I came to thee and found another I could trust.
  Elminster smiled in the darkness, and then hastily caught his pipe as it fell. I love thee, Lady.
  And I thee, Lord. Stop all this formal fencing, El. We're alone now, and you're in perhaps the worst danger you've ever really faced. Have you decided what to do next?
  Elminster's sigh slid into a rueful grin. No. I've thought, but not decided. I was hoping
  That between us all, we'd decide on a path for your feet? came the dry reply. That is not laid on through life for any of us, Old Mage. You of all folk know that well. The rebuke was lost in the same ruefulness that Elminster felt, shared for a moment before it faded. When the Simbul spoke again, her mind-voice was gentle. Will you come to me? There is a hidden place deep in the Yuirwood, a refuge I've used before, as others of Aglarond did before me.
  Nay, Lady. Elminster's feelings were firm and certain about this, at least. This danger is, as ye say, mine to face. Moreover, I menace any mage I am near. Even if I did not love thee, Aglarond needs thee against the spite and greed of Thay, whose meddling mages would be that much closer to me in thy refuge than they are now.
  Right now, all who learn of your misfortune and would do you ill know exactly where to find you, Nethreen reminded him sharply. Don't misthink yourself into a grave, my lord! Her mental tone shifted into curiosity. Why are you a danger to any mage? Are you afraid the power in you will tempt me, or another like me?
  Elminster's reply was subdued. I know not if Mystra's power will leak from me. Mayhap it will be unleashed in some sort of magical blast. In either case, it may destroy any mages near, or render them feeble witted or dead to Art as I am now.
  Moreover, I am sure to attract the overly ambitious, if ever my fate becomes known. I would not want ye to face hourly visits from the likes of Ghalaster of Thay; that Calishite, Murdrimm the Hierarchmage; or Manshoon, backed by all his Zhentarim. One or a number of them, working against thee or me, might taste too much of Tymora's good fortune. Those who would seize Mystra's power will do anything, and more than anything, to get it.
  What must we do, then? The Simbul's voice seemed close to tears.
  If ye would help me, Elminster replied carefully, feeling his way as he spoke to her, watch over Mourngrymand Randal Morn in Daggerdaleas I have done, and help the Harpers as best ye can. Storm will tell thee how. I need thee to take on my tasks while I am unable to do themif ye deem the doing necessary and good, for I will not tell thee how to judge, or that I have been right in what I've done.
  There was a little silence, and then the reply came, soft as a falling feather. I will, Old Mage. Remember that I love thee. That was all, and she was gone.
  Elminster sat alone again in the night, waiting for moonrise.
  He could not see the silent tears the lady in the tattered black gown shed then. Far away, in the highest room in a night-cloaked tower in Aglarond, the Simbul wept for her doomed lord. She hated to break their link togethernow, when he needed her mostbut she couldn't hide her pity any longer. That last pride she would not take from him, whatever befell. It was nearly all he had left.
  * * * * *
  Sitting alone in the soft darkness, Elminster watched the stars slowly wheel overhead.
  "I wonder," he said at last, aloud, "if every mage who strives with Art to change the world were swept away tomorrow, if it would make one breath of difference to the Realms."
  "I know not," came a quiet reply from out of the night, "but it's never stopped any of us from trying."
  Elminster nearly jumped right into the air. Heart racing, beard bristling, he contented himself with jerking around toward the voice as he flung away pipe and wineglass.
  Delicate eyebrows arched. "I know I haven't done anything to my hair since this morning," Jhessail Silvertree asked calmly, "but do I really look that bad?"
  "Mystra's mercies, lass! Must ye creep up on an old, enfeebled man like that?" Elminster sputtered, peering at his onetime pupil. Instead of her customary man's tunic and breeches, the Knight of Myth Drannor wore a dark, splendid gown. Her long hair, unbound, curled about her shoulders. Her eyes were very dark.
  The lady Knight leaned close enough in the dimness for him to see her smile. "It certainly seemed effective," she agreed. "How are you tonight, Old Mage?"
  Elminster sat very still. Then he said simply, "Not good."
  "I know," Jhessail said softly, sitting down and wrapping smooth, strong arms around him. "It's why I've come."
  "Ye know?" Elminster asked dully. Realizing how very much he needed the friendly warmth of arms about him just now, he slowly relaxed in her embrace.
  Jhessail nodded, her hair brushing his cheek. "Storm sent me. Worry not; no others in this dale know." She snuggled closer. "Storm has two guestsHarpersthis night and thought you needed someone to hold you."
  "Well," Elminster said dryly, "there's always Lhaeo."
  "He's busy," Jhessail said, "getting out all your old clothes and wands and traveling boots, and cooking up a storm just in case."
  "In case, good lady, of what?" Elminster asked rather testily.
  "He knows how restless you are," Jhessail said gently. "Even if you're so shaken right now that I could walk right past you to the tower and back again without your noticing."
  "Shaken?" Elminster suddenly found himself shouting, trembling in a red fury. He drew back a hand and hit out hard. "Have a care, wench!" he snarled. "I've"
  When he realized what he'd done, ice clutched at his spine, and the anger was suddenly gone. He was alone in black despair, sinking, and without magic. "Oh, gods, lass," he whispered roughly. "I'm sorry."
  There was silence. She did not move.
  "J-Jhessail?" the Old Mage asked almost frantically, "Have I hurt thee? ISmite me with Art, I deserve it! I am most sorry, but I cannot undo what I've done. I deserve to make amends."
  There was a soft chuckle in the darkness, a chuckle with a catch in it. Then Jhessail's arms went around him again. Elminster couldn't help noticing what a shockingly firm and heaving bosom pressed against him as warm lips kissed his cheek.
  "Just had to catch my breath. You've a mean right arm, for all your years, Old Mage," Jhessail said happily into his chest. "I'm glad, not angry. It seems you'll be all right, after all."
  "No," Elminster said miserably, "that's just what I won't be, lass. Without magic, I won't be all right ever again."
  Jhessail kissed him full on the mouth, stopping his bitter words. "Ever notice," she said, a long breath later, "how some wizards think the sun rises and sets on their shoulders, and their feet hold the Realms together as they walk on it?"
  Elminster, still reeling from the kiss, asked roughly, "What d'ye? Are ye implying?"
  "No," Jhessail replied sweetly, "I'm saying it straight out. And more. I'm telling you to get up, help me find the glass and pipe you threw my way a little while ago, and go in and have dinner. Lhaeo's worried about you. I'm worried about you. And when I get home and Merith sees this magnificent bruise on my ribs, he's going to be worried about you."
  "I didn'tI'm sorry, lass!" Elminster protested wretchedly, but firm hands lifted him from his seat and propelled him into the night. He heard her chuckle again, and in anger and despair cried out, "Jhessail! My Art's gone, I tell thee!"
  "Yes, yes," Jhessail said quickly, "and now the whole dale knows, too!" Her voice broke then, but she rushed on. "Gods, Old Mage, don't make this any harder for me than it is already. I'm scared sick at what might happen to you, and to this dale without your protection. I'm trying to cheer you up, but it's cursed hard work, andand" Tears came then, and she reached for him in the darkness and embraced him again.
  "If you're quite finished with the first act of this little love play," Lhaeo's dry voice came out of the darkness a few breaths later, "a late feastlate indeed, by nowis laid ready in the kitchen. There's enough for three."

2
Mystery,Doom, and a Long Walk

  Storm was laughing in a flying web of steel, her flashing blade holding off two others in a deadly dance. It was the bright height of the day of Lord Aumry's Feast, and no clouds marred the circle of blue sky above her as she ducked and pivoted. The two men she fought had no spare breath to do more than grunt and gasp.
  The Bard of Shadowdale was training two Harpers at sword work, showing them how with skill she could force their blades and bodies continually nearer each other, driving them into each other's way as they circled about the moss-carpeted glade. More than once the two men in leathers had stumbled into each other, muttered apologies and oaths, and leapt hastily out of the way of the weaving blade that stung them, teased them, flirted with their own steel, and slid past their sword hilts to touch them again and again.
  It was a rare chance to cross blades with Storm Silverhand. Among Harpers she was as famous as Mintiper or Sharanralee, veteran adventurers of whom many songs had been sung and tavern tales told. Semiretired now, she dwelt in the green fastness of Shadowdale and trained Harpers in the ways of music and battle. Many came, some skeptical that one woman could really be so special. They left amazed and changed, and spoke of their meetings with her in awe and with fondness.
  Storm Silverhand was really that special. An impish humor danced in her eyes as she faced them now, long hair bound back out of her face, her leathers creaking with the strain as she twisted and leapt and danced as lightly as a child at play.
  Belkram and Itharr, rangers and Harpers both, wore faces as delighted and eager as boys at a favorite sport.
  They had come almost as much to see if the legends were true as to hone their sword skills. Both had seen many deaths and much battle, and thought few could teach them more than a trick or two with a blade.
  Now they knew they faced a true master. Thrice, five times, a dozen more the lady bard could have slain them, had that been her goal. Her slim but very long silvery sword leapt again and again through their guards to kiss shoulder, breast, forearm, or flank. Yet so skilled was she that she pulled back ere steel tasted flesh, time and again, even when blades met so hard that winking sparks flew, and the fray moved so fast that the two men were scrambling and all three panted like winded dogs.
  A rare chance, this, to face one skilled enough not to hurt you but to keep the sword work as hard and as fast as if it were to the death. Belkram and Itharr, parrying the blade that seemed to be everywhere, found themselves helplessly maneuvered again into each other. They bumped shoulders, sprang apart murmuring apologies, and exchanged glances. Their eyes met for only an instantit was all they dared spare time forbut each saw admiration for their opponent in the other's eyes. This Storm was truly magnificent with a long sword in her hand.
  Belkram shook sweat out of his eyes for perhaps the sixtieth time and sprang back a pace to avoid any lunge the bard might make while he was doing so. Had this fight been in earnest, the awe he now felt would have been stone-cold fear. Storm, as she had been doing since she discovered both her opponents were good bladesmen, was smiling as she fought. Smiling merrily and, between gasps for breath, humming a sprightly tune that Belkram had often heard harped in Everlund.
  Anyone who could toy with himand with Itharr, who was as good as himself or betteras this lady was doing, and spare thought and breath enough to hum a tune, could be the death of him whenever she desired. Belkram had seen many quick swords in the years since he'd joined the Harpers, but never the equal of Storm Silverhand. He was old enough to realize the gift she was giving them: A chance to strive against one much better with a blade and have time enough in the fray to try all they knew against her. To feel, face, and master their fear rather than being paralyzed with terror and, an instant later, sinking into eternal red-edged darkness.
  Belkram matched Storm's smile as he remembered a crossing attack he'd seen in a sea fight long ago. He arched to his left, parrying Storm's blade with a series of short, binding, feathering strokes of his own blade. His own side was exposed now, but Itharr should be attacking from that side, protecting it.
  Then, not for the first time in that clash of steel, Storm was gone. Ducking smoothly to one knee, dropping below Belkram's parries, she spun back to face Itharr, tossing her sword to her left hand and raising it to parry his descending blade. In the same motion, her now-empty right hand grabbed Belkram's ankle and jerked.
  The ranger hopped, trying to twist his foot loose, and fell helplessly. Storm straightened and put her shoulders into two furious strokes that drove Itharra burly man a hand shorter but at least six trade-blocks heavier than she, with arms and wrists twice as thickback across the clearing. With a twist of her blade she disarmed him, sending his blade singing off into the trees.
  Belkram chuckled ruefully as he rolled to his feet and brought his own blade up barely in time to turn aside her sword point, inches away from his cheek. He dodged and twisted, his moves slowed and blunted by growing weariness. In an attempt to win past her blade, he tried a circular cut that extended into a lunge.
  In the midst of the ring and skirl of their blades, Storm's face suddenly twisted. She stiffened as a blue-white glow surrounded her hair. Belkram didn't even have time to gape in astonishment as his blade slid into her breast.
  It went into the leather-clad swell of her bosom just as easily as a hot knife into butter, as they saya good three inches or more before he could stop. Beside him, Belkram heard Itharr gasp, but Storm made no sound. Her eyes had closed, and her mouth was parted in pain.
  "Gods, you've killed her!" and "Oh, Lady! Forgive" rang out together as Storm swayed, clutched the steel that stood out from her breast with both hands, and opened her eyes at last.
  "My apologies, both of you," she said in a low voice. "Something . . . linked to me ... took hold for a moment. No blame to you, Belkram."
  Storm smiled at them, but the two Harpers were staring at her as if she had suddenly become a ghost or a dragon. Her eyes were two dancing flames of blue-white fire, and more flames crackled in her mouth as she spoke. Her hands moved down Belkram's blade, and in their wake blue-white fire danced along the steel. The ranger, who still held his sword, felt a tingling in his hand. The tingling grew to a painful burning. Without thought he let go of his blade.
  Slowly Storm drew the steel out of herself, the blade blazing with cold, silent, blue-white fire from end to end. She laid a hand on her breast, and flames licked between her fingers. Then she smiled and glided forward to hand the blade hilt-first to Belkram. She did not move as if she were hurt.
  In wonderment Itharr asked, "Are you all right, Lady?"
  Storm nodded. "I am." The fire in her eyes was dying down, and she looked almost herself again.
  Belkram felt the eerie tingling spread up his arm from the blade and said quietly, "Lady, I am sorry. It was as you said; I could not stop in time. But you have shown us both that you can halt your blade where you will, time and time again. I have never seen your like in battle, and hope never to do so. Tell me, if you will. Are you a mage also?"
  Storm shook her head. "I am a bard and no more. This"she spread out her hand and looked at the fading blue-white glow with interest"is not of my doing. It was what. . . caught me and gave us all this scare." She raised eyes that were normal again, but somber, and added, "Let us bathe and then go in for wine and talk. I've no more stomach for fighting, this day."
  "Aye," the men agreed together and put away their swords. Belkram had slid his weapon half into its scabbard before he remembered Storm's blood and hastily pulled the blade out again. A sword must never be sheathed wet, lest it rust. This blade had traveled long and far with him. Yet to wipe it clean in front of the very lady one has just wounded with it...
  Storm saw his look and laughed. "No need, Belkram. See?" She caught hold of his blade with two deft fingers and turned it. Light flashed along the sword's length. It was shiny-clean and glowed faintly blue as if freshly oiled. "It will never rust now," Storm said softly. Both men looked at her without speaking.
  Storm looked back at them. "It has tasted Mystra's fire," she explained. When she undid her leather jacket and peeled it unconcernedly off, her naked skin beneath was unmarked. There was no sign of the bloody wound that should have been there, and that should have drained her life away.
  The Harpers stared and then quickly looked away with muttered apologies. One does not stare at a lady so. They had gone another six steps toward the stream before they realized that no sweat had glistened on her skin. That, too, must have been burned away.
  They were very quiet as they stripped to bathe in the stream with her, and kept a respectful distance. One does not speak loudly or appear overbold when walking with one who might be a goddess. Storm tried to put them at their ease with light talk but dared not tell the two men what had really happened to her in the clearing. And so another legend of Storm Silverhand was born.
  * * * * *
  In the clear and early dawn, Elminster swung a cloak about his shoulders, left the tower quietly, and went for a walk in the dew that cloaked Shadowdale.
  He felt as if he were drifting this morn and not really alive or present at all. Hardly surprising, he reflected; he'd not slept a wink all night.
  The moon had gone down before Merith Strongbow had slipped into the tower looking for his wife. He'd found Jhessail asleep by the fire, wrapped in furs and snoring ever so faintly. Lhaeo provided slumbrous harmony from the stool in the corner, and Elminster sat sleepless, silent watch over them both, his pipe lit and his eyes as empty and dark as the night outside.
  He and Merith had shared a silent toast to Jhessail's love and caring with chill green Calishite wine. Rather than wake her or Lhaeo, Merith had curled up in Elminster's last chair to sleep. Elminster had finished the bottle of wine by himself, and thought much.
  Answers and clear paths seemed as elusive as ever, but after a time Elminster arose and opened the door. There he softly spoke a word and pointed into the night with one of the wands Lhaeo had found. His heart leapt as lightning crackled and spat into the darkness. This sort of magic, at least, he could still command.
  He went to a certain railpost on the stairs, bent to a particular spot, and pushed just so. A curved section of the post swung open, and a dusty, long-forgotten bag fell out. The Old Mage selected two plain brass rings from the bag, put them on, and went down to the door again.
  The rings worked, too. Much heartened, Elminster drew himself a cool tankard of beer. Then he frowned and got up again to close and bolt the door, locking it for the first time in years. He and Lhaeo usually left it open, for anyone who needed them at night to get in with a minimum of fuss. He'd have to remember to change such habits now.
  As he had been changed, the wry thought rose unbidden. He pushed it away and went to find another tankard. He did not take the rings off.
  So the night had gone, stealing slowly toward morning. Grieving for his lost magic, Elminster walked alone as morning came. He was drawn, as always, into the welcoming green reaches of the trees that cloaked Shadowdale. He walked among them in soft-shod silence for what seemed a very long time as the dale awoke behind him. Birds called, small things scampered in the underbrush, and rising breezes stirred the leaves.
  Elminster smiled, breathed deep, and looked all around. It had been long indeed since he'd taken the time to really see this forest. From ahead on the path, Elminster heard the sudden clear call of a child.
  "Well met!" the young treble voice called out.
  Giggles answered, followed by another child's voice replying, "Are we so, base villain?"
  The children of the dale awoke early for farm chores and were now playing. The Old Mage stepped aside from the path, pulling his cloak around him, and leaned against a tree to listen.
  He was startled to hear, very loud and close at hand, a young but confident male voice declaim grandly, "I, Elminster the Great, smite thee with fires and lightnings that none can withstand!"
  There was movement on the other side of the tree. Elminster cocked his head to look around the trunk and saw a smooth but rather crooked twig cutting the air, flourished in a young boy's hand.
  Its bearer pointed the stick across a little open place at a rather dirty little girl, perhaps six summers old, who was standing on a stone to make herself taller.
  She faced the twig-wand without fear and replied triumphantly, "Well, I'm the Simbul, and my power is even greater. Besides, Elminster loves me and does what I want!"
  The Old Mage found himself smiling. With the smile, hot tears came unbidden, and his eyes swam.
  He waited until he could see the trees clearly again and slipped quietly away.
  * * * * *
  Sweat glistened on bare, knot-muscled shoulders as Storm Silverhand greeted the morn. A bastard sword with a blade as broad as a man's hand glinted blue and deadly in the rising light as it spun and leapt in her hands.
  Storm wore only boots, tattered and patched leather breeches, and huge metal war gauntlets. She grunted from time to time as she twisted, lunged, and danced, fencing with shadows. When she was breathing heavily, Storm paused, leaned on her blade, and called softly, "Vethril! Vethril! To battle, sister!"
  In the round-windowed room under the eaves, her two Harper guests awoke as Storm's soft words floated in through the open window. Belkram and Itharr yawned, rubbed their eyes, stretched, and winced. Both were as sore as old saddle horses after being ridden hard. Their eyes met ruefully. Gods, did the woman never rest?
  She'd talked late into the night, matching them flagon for flagon. They'd fallen asleep listening to her sing soft, sad sleep-songs of lost Myth Drannor as she swept and washed up. Now she was up and about in the dawn after a day of battleand that woundthat would leave most men stiff and numb for half a day after.
  Perhaps it was this beautiful house and the dale beyond. Harpers, who tend to be folk of the open road, can seldom relax and rarely sleep without a blade to hand. This place was a refuge, a rare opportunity to let go for two men who had a lot of sleep to catch up on.
  Nonetheless, they were Harpers. At the first clash of steel they were up, naked but with swords ready in their hands, and rushing to the window. Their jaws dropped together.
  Outside, the half-naked Bard of the Blade, silver hair swirling about her, was fighting a ghost. Her translucent, utterly silent opponent swung a very real black-bladed battle-axe. When it met the great bastard sword Storm wielded, sparks flew from the force of the blow.
  The two men drank in the sight of Storm's magnificence for a breath and then stared hard at the opponent who hardly seemed to be there. They exchanged glances and whistled soundlessly. The fighting down there was fast. Like their combat in the glade yesterday, it was obviously a friendly battle; no one was striking to slay. But as those huge weapons flashed and spun, crashed together and bobbed about in the hands of their dodging, dancing wielders, the Harpers were struck by just how fast the two women were going at it. Perhaps their own work, yesterday, had looked like that. They'd been far too busy to watch.
  Two women? Aye, for the ghostif that was what it waswas a slim, long-haired woman in a gown. Shorter than Storm, she looked very like the Bard of Shadowdale in features, build, and movement.
  The two men could see right through her, but from time to time as she moved, her features grew clearer and more solid. This seemed to happen when emotion rose, whenever the silent figure made an exultant grin, a delighted, soundless laugh, or a grimace of remorse at a missed chance or bad bit of weapon wielding. As the two men watched, Storm leapt high, slashing the axe aside with her own blade, and crashed down on her ghostly opponent with knees drawn up. There was an audible thump as they fell to the trodden turf together.
  Itharr leaned out the window to see what had happened just as the axe leapt skyward again and there was a clanging flurry of blows. His naked sword grated for an instant on the window frame.
  The silent figure stared up in terror and melted away in an instant, the axe falling. Storm batted it away with her blade, but not fast enough to avoid taking a long slice as the axe blade caught on one bare forearm and slid past.
  She shook her head, smiling up at them ruefully, and said, "Fair morn, men. I can't seem to avoid getting cut open when you're around." Clapping a hand to the welling blood, she asked, "A little practice? Or dawnfry first?"
  "Uhfood first, if that's your pleasure, Lady," Belkram managed, trying not to stare. "Errwho was that?"
  Storm took up the axe in the crook of her arm and started for the door beneath them. "Come down and I'll tell," she called.
  Hastily pulling on boots and breeches, the two Harpers went down. They brought their swords because they were, after all, Harpers. The kitchen was as cool and inviting as it had been yesterday.
  "Well met." Storm grinned, muscling a cauldron of soup off the hearth, an apron wrapped around her hands to ward off burns. Wordlessly, Itharr went to her and turned up her arm. A long white scar there was fading already. He raised his eyebrows.
  Storm gestured with her chin at a shelf behind him, under the stairs they'd descended. "Healing potions there, if you need them."
  Belkram cleared his throat. "Lady, at the risk of seeming a complete idiot, I'd like to ask you to tell us whatever you care to about what we just sawand for that matter, about what happened yesterday."
  Storm waved them to seats, whipping warm bread from a hearth pan, and said, "Of course. One of my customs is to limber up of mornings with the heaviest blade I can comfortably swing." She cast a fond glance at the great bastard sword. The two men looked at it leaning against the wall, and both raised their eyebrows at its length and evident weight. "From time to time I call on a sparring partner, whom you saw."
  "A ghost?"
  "If you like. A soul who dwells here with me and can materialize for short periods. The rest of the time she is my watchguard. If ever you have a message for me and can't find me here, speak it aloud and she'll usually make some sign that she's heard. Moving a chair, for instance. She's handy that way for scaring off thieves."
  Itharr nodded slowly. "I can imagine." He looked all around. "She's here all the time?"
  Storm nodded. "She doesn't like to show herself to any but me, and I don't like to reveal her to others. I came up to wake you twowith a kiss and a hot mug of bitterroot, as I did yestermornand you both slept right on. Well, it's never failed before." She grinned again, and Belkram rolled his eyes. "So I thought you were safely snoring for a bit, and called her."
  Itharr nodded again and said, raising his voice only a little, "Ahwell met, Vethril! I'm sorry we broke into things; you swing a mean axe."
  A little chill went down his spine as a feminine mouth and chin appeared in the air before him for a moment, over the table. The mouth smiled and was gone.
  For a long moment, Belkram stared at where the apparition had been and said, "Yes. Well. Lady, will you tell us about yesterday?"
  Storm nodded, not smiling now, and said, "Something happened. Something very important that wisdom forbids me to tell you about. Something, as you know, connected with Mystra. All I can say is beware magic for some time to come. It may go awry in strange ways. More than that; in the days ahead we must all be wary, ready for trouble. It's all too likely to come."
  She sighed and broke off a large chunk of bread in her long, strong fingers. Itharr looked from them to the gauntlets and back again. Then his gaze drifted up her naked torso, to be caught and held by Storm's own eyes. She was not smiling, and her eyes held them both as if on two dark sword points. Her voice, when it came, was very soft.
  "There is more. For the next little while, the most important being in the entire Realms is the archmage Elminster of Shadowdale. He must be aided and watched at all times by every Harper, so spread the word. He must be kept alive, and he might not be able to use his own magic. We must guard him as if he were a defenseless child. Nothing you do in your lives, gentlemen, is likely to be half so important as this, believe me."
  Deep silence fell, and lasted five long breaths before Itharr shivered. They all stirred, and Storm smiled at them again.
  "That reminds me," she said briskly, "that we'd best go see Elminster. So break bread, men, and let's be washed up and done."
  "Ah," Belkram said, eyeing her, "can we get dressed first? You seem used to going about near unclad and all, but..."
  They all chuckled, and Storm rose and took down the leathers she'd worn the day before, from a drying-rack in the beams low overhead.
  Itharr looked up at her and said softly, "Vethril? Vethril, are you near?"
  The empty chair beside him turned by itself. Itharr nodded and said, "That's your truename, isn't it?" Silence gave him reply. He drew a deep breath and said, "Well, I think it is. And you are a friendno, a sister"he heard a sharp intake of breath from nearby"to a fellow Harper. Know, then, that my truename is Olanshin, and I would be pleased to know thee."
  Belkram nodded at the formal words and added, "And mine, unseen lady, is Kelgarh. Well met."
  Itharr was startled, then, to feel the touch of soft, cold lips upon his cheek, then wetness. But he was a strong man and a Harper, and did not flinch or bring his hands up but only smiled.
  He did not wipe the tears from his cheek. Storm looked at him with an expression of thanks and pride that Itharr would remember to the end of his days. She said huskily, "And mine, friends, is not mine to give. If I could, know you that I would."
  Belkram nodded. "We understand," he said, rising from the table with the dishes in his hands. "Mystra forbids."
  Storm looked at the empty air. "Truly, sister," she said with a smile, "we've two good ones this time."
  The reply, when it came, startled them all: a hissing, ghostly whisper. "You'll need them," was all that Vethril said.
  * * * * *
  When they were out on the dale road, walking toward the junction that would take them to Elminster's tower, Itharr turned to Storm and said quietly, "That's your sister Sylune, isn't it?"
  Storm smiled and nodded, and Itharr saw that her eyes were suddenly bright with tears. "What's left of her," she said, very softly.
  "We'll come back to visit you both, when we can," Belkram added. "She's tied to your house, isn't she?"
  Storm nodded. "Would that Elminster were, too," she replied. "It would often make my tasks much easier."
  * * * * *
  One never pays all that much heed to what one has and what one has grown used to, Elminster reflected wryly, looking down at his left hand. Yestermorn these fingers could have hurled lightnings or raised walls of shimmering force with but a thought, but now they could call forth nothing. The same as the hands of most men, the Old Mage reminded himself. Few have been as fortunate to face life with the arms and armor of Art I've wielded. And, oh, Mystra, but I've grown used to it!
  Lady, why me?
  An instant later, Elminster raised his head defiantly and looked about. Why? he thought, then answered his own question. Because, look ye, I was the best she could turn to. The best. No less.
  So I carry her power within me. It has unmanned me, aye, but my wits are still my own, my strengthforgive me, Jhessail!has not failed me ... yet. I may be old, but I carry wisdom and experience more than most. I've seen what one can and cannot do with a blade, and can show most young swagger-swords a thing or two!
  Perhaps I should seek out Storm and practice some blade work. But no. She also carries Mystra's burden. What if one or both of us were hurt by some mischance, or by the attack of a Manshoon or Ghalaster? What then? We'd perish, aye, but what of Mystra's spilled power? Lost to the Realms forever, perhaps blasting Shadowdale to dust on the way? Or stolen by a tyrant-mage to use as a whip to bring the Realms to their knees before his rule? No, that's out. Even meeting with others who bear the burden would be ill judgment, with all the foes I've made.
  Storm abides in Shadowdale. I am too close to her already. Besides, the longer I tarry here, the more likely someone calling on me for aid will discover what has befallen me. When the word gets out, Shadowdale first, and then what I hold dear in the Realms, will be doomed as I am doomed. Absent, I remain a threatsomeone who might return in fury to smite down any invader.
  I must go. Slip away, and lose myselfforever, if my magic does not return. Whither, then?
  * * * * *
  There was a sudden burst of laughter around his very feet. Bewildered, Elminster looked down. He'd walked one of the narrow trodden paths that twist and cross in Shadowdale's backwoods like the web of some giant forest spider. The children he'd seen before, joined by several other dale urchins, had dashed about by other ways. At length and by chance, they'd met with him. Surprise and delight lit their voices as they crowded around his robes, patting and tugging.
  Elminster managed a smile and found his gaze caughtand pulled in, as a fisherman drags close his catchby a pair of very brown, very beautiful eyes. They belonged to a little girl, the one who'd earlier pretended to be the Simbul. Her hands and frock were dirtyshe'd evidently fallen down or been pushedand she was barefoot, but she drew herself up under his gaze with unconscious dignity. Her eyes alight with wonder, she crossed her arms on her breast and bowed from the waist as they did at court in Suzail and on the Sword Coast when meeting royalty.
  Elminster stared down at her, oddly touched, his mouth curling in a smile. The bow had been done out of respect, not in the obsequious or emptily formal way he'd seen so often in real courts. He gave her the low, hand-sweeping bow of gallant knights in return, solemnly and with none of the archness with which he bowed to, say, Torm of the Knights in jest.
  The girl was silent for a moment and then, very slowly, she blushed. Wonder sparkled in her eyes. She turned suddenly and made as if to dash away but halted, like a bird snagged upon a thorn, as another young voice rang out in protest.
  "Jhaleen, you promised! You said you'd ask him! Well, here he is, so ..."
  The girl, her eyes very large, looked back at the boy who'd spoken and then at Elminster, like a trapped hare. Elminster smiled invitingly.
  Jhaleen blurted out, "Lord Elminster! Old Mage! Make magic for us, please! Please!" A chorus of young voices joined her bold one, and she added excitedly, "A dragon flying. Only a little one, just for us!"
  Elminster smiled, felt tears near again, and knelt down to embrace her. "Not this morn, little one," he said softly, his eyes very blue. "Magic must be saved up, like coins, and used only when other ways fail."
  She blinked up at him, disappointed, and Elminster chuckled and rubbed her cheek with the back of one long, gentle finger. He remembered, then, where he'd seen this brown-eyed girl before. In one of his dreams.
  "Nay, be not downcast, Jhaleen. I see some things, know ye, in my dreams. Things I know will come to pass, in summers still to come." He leaned close to her, and whispered for her ears alone, "I've seen theemuch taller than now, and sternriding a dragon."
  She looked into his eyes and saw truth, and her mouth dropped open in awe and trembled just a little in fear. It is one thing to dream of dragons, and quite another to know with cold certainty that someday you will be touching one. More than that; flying high above the ground on a dragon's scaly back, with empty air as high as castles beneath you, and a twisted death below should you fall.
  Elminster chuckled, and clapped her on the shoulder. "Go on playing thy games," he said, "and watch close what the Queen of Aglarond says and does when she visits us. And perhaps ye will befriend and even come to command dragons." Then he rose and walked slowly away from them all.
  * * * * *
  White-faced and silent, Jhaleen watched the Old Mage as he moved away into the depths of the forest. She'd seen the glint of tears in the archmage's eyes and could only think he foresaw something terrible that would happen to her. She stood watching him go until the trees hid him from view, then turned and hurried toward the path that led out of the trees toward home.
  "Jhaleen, where be you going, then? Don't you want to play at high magic, anymore?" the boy who'd pretended to be Elminster called.
  Jhaleen wheeled around so suddenly that the smaller children, who'd followed her out of habit, jumped back in apprehension. With a fierceness that surprised even herself she hissed, "I'll never play games about magic again! Never. It's ... not something to play at."
  She turned about again and ran out of the woods as if the black-armored warriors of Zhentil Keep were chasing her, faster than she'd ever run before. Her lungs burned and tears swam before her eyes, but the black terror that ran after her was worse.
  Her fleet bare feet pounded along the earthen paths, stumbling and hurrying, until she came out into the dapped sunlight at last. Panting like a winded horse, she tore her way through young branches and, with a little shriek of fear, almost ran into someone. A tall lady clad in leather armor stood in the meadow beyond, brown hair flowing down over her shoulders in a fall almost as long as the slim sword scabbarded at her hip.
  Jhaleen twisted to avoid running right into that blade, and fell. In an instant, gently strong hands raised her again and steady gray-green eyes looked into her own.
  It was the Lady Sharantyr of the Knights. "What's wrong, lass? What's to run from, so?"
  A breath later, Jhaleen was sobbing out all the Lord Elminster had said and how he'd been crying and had walked away.
  The lady ranger held Jhaleen close. Sharantyr comforted the girl, turned her back to face the trees, and told her firmly never to run from what frightened her but to back away from it calmly and carefully, to see what it did.
  Jhaleen felt a little better and managed a smile. She nodded when Sharantyr told her to take a walk in the sunlight and think carefully about what Elminster had said, so as to remember it properly later.
  * * * * *
  Biting at her knuckle to hold back fresh tears, Jhaleen watched Sharantyr go on into the wood. The lady had looked so sad when Jhaleen had told her about the Old Mage, and now she was hurrying through the trees as if to catch him. Something was wrong, very wrong. And with the Lord Elminster at the heart of it, who could tell her what was right, and what should be done, and what the truth of it all was?
  As Jhaleen backed carefully away from the dark trees into the warmth of the full sun, she looked around, but no one came with answers. She was all alone with the trees and the grass, and there was no one to guide her. She walked without a known way before her, unsure of what to do next. Like someone she'd just seen, she realized suddenly.
  Just like the Old Mage, walking away into the trees.
  * * * * *
  Elminster walked on into the deepening forest, just walking ever onward, tree-cloaked hillsides rising and falling under his feet. He felt empty and weak, as useless as a rotted log, and at the same time restless with the power that fairly crackled within him. Power he could not use, could not touch, dare not try to unleash. "By Mystra's touch," wizards often swore. By Mystra's touch, indeed.
  His wandering feet brought him to the edge of a little gully, and Elminster paused a moment, gazing about to choose his route onward. He heard the faintest of sounds in the underbrush far behind him and nodded. The fifth time ... too often for all such noises to have been small, disturbed forest creatures.
  Someoneor somethingwas following him. Someone intelligent and with deliberate purpose. Someone who took care to keep out of sight. Elminster sighed and turned to face back the way he had come. "Ye may as well walk with me," he announced to the woods, "though truth to tell ye I'd prefer silent company this day."
  Silence greeted him, the listening, waiting silence of the forest. The old wizard joined its wait for a breath or two and then shrugged, turned about, and went on. Not a friend, thenor not overbold, at least.
  His hand strayed to the hilt of the belt knife he'd almost forgotten and then fell away again. Perhaps the magic he wore would sufficein rings and pipe and wand, and even in the dagger strapped inside his right boot, whose soft sole was already wearing thineven if the Art of his head and hands had deserted him. Elminster feared he'd soon have to find out.
  He shrugged, trotted down a little bank, and plowed through a hollow that was ankle deep in dry leaves. He climbed its far side steadily and walked deliberately on into the rising land beyond, but paused in a stand of massive shadowtops to listen.
  After what seemed like a long time, he heard the sound he'd waited for. Now was as good a time as any to look at death, he supposed wryly. He turned and took one step around the dark trunk of a forest giant, laid a hand on his belt knifeand the world fell on him, gauntleted hands smashing brutally into his face and stabbing steely fingers at his throat.

3
Doomed Not to Walk Alone

  Death came for them with cold fury. The four brigands, intent on robbing an old man in fine robes, the sort of person who might well have a gold coin or two stitched into belt or boot top, did not hear their doom coming down on them.
  One looked up too late. Long brown hair swirled as a leather-clad figure raced through the trees, sword held high. The staring brigand raised his dagger too slowly. He spun to a blood-spattered fall, throat cut open, as the swordswoman stormed into their midst.
  Then her silvery blade was leaping everywhere, like a many-headed striking snake. Storm Silverhand had taught her things with a sword, and she was almost as fast as the famous Bard of the Blade.
  Balrik Daershun was also counted fast and able with a blade. He'd ridden in the forefront of Lashan's troops, not so long ago, when they'd cut down full-armored Sembian lancers on the road south of Essembra. He'd killed four that day, leaping from his mount to carry the last lancer out of his saddle, his dagger finding the visor-slit even before the antagonists struck the ground together. Men had spoken of Balrik's fighting with awe and praise, and he'd been toasted with much wine.
  Toasts had been fewer since, but Balrik's blade still served him. In the final rout of Lashan's leaderless host, Balrik and a dozen comrades had carved their way through a well-armed Cormyrean horse patrol to escape.
  Outlaws led a hard life. Since that battle, Balrik had learned to fear arrows and quarrels from afar. He had only three companions left now, but two of them were nearly as good with a blade as he was, and he feared no man who came at him with a sword.
  After that first whirl and flurry of steel, Balrik began to think he'd not be given time enough to learn to fear women who swung swords.
  Elminster twisted free of the tall, hook-nosed man who held him, and dove for the ground to avoid the sword slash he knew would come. The expected blade flashed past overhead, then the man was turning at the leader's shout to face the new threat.
  Elminster's rings and the wand he wore at his belt had saved his life. The brigands been so intent on grabbing and breaking fingers and snatching away the smooth stick of wood to stay any magic he might hurl, that they'd not put a dagger in his throat.
  He began crawling away from the trampled ground where they'd struggled, looking back all the while to avoid being taken from the rear. If he could get away
  Then he saw the newcomer and struggled to his feet. This was no rival brigand come to settle scores or win a share of the loot. This was Sharantyr of the Knights. As he straightened, she spared time to flash a smile at him through her dance of striking steel. The three brigands were all around her now, tripping and stumbling over the body of the fourth. Her blade slid in and out, not daring to lunge full out in a killing thrust and thereby give another foe an opening to buy her death.
  These were experienced warriors, not mere hungry hackers and stabbers. They would not fall easily, for all that they still gaped at her in wonder.
  A womanand so pretty, too, though her eyes held cold death for them, and her blade hissed like a striking serpent in her hand. She wore good leathers, but save for a gorget, she bore no metal plate to turn sword tip aside. And already she was panting, winded. Aye, for all her blade flashed so, they could take this one.
  Abruptly she gasped and bent double. Grinning, Gaerth Wolfarm stepped in, drawing back his blade for a killing thrust.
  "No!" Balrik roared from behind him. " 'Tis a trick, Gaer"
  His words died in his throat, too late by far, as Sharantyr straightened with a smile that chilled his blood, slashed open Gaerth's throat with a sweep of her sword, and shoved his body backward into Balrik's.
  Cursing, Balrik stumbled aside, blade flailing in a desperate defense. But she was not coming for him. She'd turned, that beautiful long hair swirling, to slay Albeir.
  Albeir o' the Axe. Albeir the veteran of half a hundred mercenary skirmishes on the Westgate caravan roads and in the Vilhon. Albeir the steadfast, who abruptly turned, white-faced, and sprinted away. Sharantyr took two running steps in pursuit, saw how he held his sword and that he was running toward Elminster, and snatched a dagger from her hip.
  Balrik saw the blade spin to catch Albeir's ear in a gout of blood. He saw Albeir stagger, catch himself, and bear down on the wizard. The brigand grabbed the old man by the throat, swinging him around with brutal haste to serve as a shield.
  Sharantyr halted and cast a look back at Balrik. He came on toward her, beginning to grin. Then he saw Albeir's grim face suddenly twist in pain. The old warrior's eyes went wide and he took a half step toward something unseen. Still staring, he crashed to the ground. Elminster looked down with evident sadness at the bloody dagger he held.
  Balrik knew cold fear. The lady in leathers was turning back to him, blade low and deadly. It had seemed so easy, four on one, and an old man, too. Tymora spits on us from time to time, that minstrel had said back in Scardale. And look, 'twas the cold truth.
  Then that blade came leaping at him again, and Balrik had no time for thought. Steel rang on steel inches from his nose as he parried desperately in the last instant before death would have found him. Then he had to do it again, gasping for air. Gods, this woman was not human! Where in the name of Tempus had she learned to wield a blathere! Balrik saw an opening. His thrust, delivered with all he could put behind it, ran down her arm and laid open the leathers in a smooth, sliding strike. Her sword arm.
  The silvery blade flew free, as he'd known it would, but she did not scream or fall back. She stepped into him, hard, and smiled into his face. "Good fight, carrion," she said calmly, eyes not a hand length from his own, and Balrik felt a sudden cold wetness in his gut.
  She shoved him away and ducked aside from his last desperate slash. Balrik's fingers found the daggergods, hilt deep!and his lips found time for what he had to say before blood welled up to choke him. "I am ... a dead man. Lady, I am Balrik Daershun. Who are you?"
  "I am Sharantyr of the Knights of Myth Drannor," she answered as the man fell heavily to his knees. His eyes had gone dark before her words were all out, and she never knew if he'd heard them. The brigand toppled from his knees, falling on his side with a rattling groan, and lay silent.
  Sharantyr looked down at the flapping tatters of her forearm leathers, watched the bright blood dripping from her elbow, and shook her head. She must be getting old.
  Elminster stood up slowly and brushed leaves from the chest of his robes with hands that shook only a little. Then he looked at the lady in leathers, the beginning of a smile at the corners of his lips. In his hand was his purse, plucked up from where it had fallen when the brigands had cut it away. From it he'd taken a vial of clear liquid that he held out to her, nodding at her arm.
  "I wondered, for a time, if life was still worth the living. It is, and I thank you for saving mine to run awhile longer." Elminster looked around at the trees and added quietly, "How much longer, I wonder?" He shrugged.
  "Old Mage," Sharantyr asked, as he knew she would, "why did you not use your magic? I've seen you lay low Zhent soldiers by the armful. Zhentarim who hurled spells against you, even! What befell?"
  Elminster looked away for a long moment. Then his eyes met hers calmly and he said levelly, "My magic is lost to me. All of itgone."
  Silence hung between them for a moment as they stood in the leaves looking at each other. Without taking her eyes off his, Sharantyr uncorked and drained the vial. Then she asked, "If you will tell me, what will you do now?"
  Elminster looked far off for a moment. Then he sighed and said softly, "I've a lot of neglected reading to be about. Perhaps in the palace library in Silverymoon, and in the Heralds' Holdfast, to start with. And then ... I used to harp, once."
  "Long ago?" Sharantyr asked lightly, using the toe of her boot to roll over the body of one she'd slain and bending smoothly to salvage a dagger.
  "Aye, under the skilled teaching of a fair lady," the Old Mage replied.
  "Fairer than me?" Sharantyr teased, holding out the dagger to him.
  It hung in the air between them for a long, silent breath as their eyes met. Elminster's hand slowly reached out. The Old Mage took the dagger as gingerly as one handles a bloody corpse when dressed in finery, and said slowly, "My memory says yes, but what are mind images beside living beauty? She's long dust, now."
  Sharantyr took his elbow and led him firmly to where the brigands had tethered their horses. "Long ago? How long ago was this?"
  "In Myth Drannor before it fell," Elminster replied in a voice that was almost a whisper, his eyes on something far away and long ago.
  He felt Sharantyr's arms move gently around him, the warmth of her leather-clad body against his shoulders. "Oh, Old Mage," she said tenderly into his neck, "I wish you well. You deserve fairer than this."
  "I'll be all right," Elminster said firmly. "Stop soaking my robes with tears, look ye! They cost me three silver pieces, they did, in" He fell silent and then added, "Well, in a place gone now."
  Then he snorted. "Which is where we'll be, if we stand about sobbing until winter finds us here." He grinned suddenly. "Aye, lass, I'll be all right."
  * * * * *
  There came a knock on the doornot the first time that had happened, nor yet the last. Lhaeo opened it without delay, his eyes anxious.
  Storm stood on the doorstep with two men he'd not seen before, so Lhaeo spoke to her in simpering tones. "Well met, Lady Storm. How does this fair morn find thee?"
  "Restless to speak with the Lord Elminster," Storm replied crisply, with a wink. "Is he within?"
  Lhaeo's eyes warned her. "Nay, Lady," he said softly. "He is gone, alone, this dawn, walking and troubled. You know why. Look to the trees. I have no doubt you'll find him therein."
  With a look, Storm collected the two silent men at her side and bowed. "Our thanks, Lhaeo. We go. Those who harp will look out for the Old Mage."
  Lhaeo bowed in his turn and said, "My thanks for that, and farewell. I hope to see you all again, in happier meetings."
  He went in and the door closed. Itharr and Belkram looked at Storm, than at each other, and spoke at once.
  "Is that Elminster's scribe?"
  "What now, Lady?"
  Storm looked at them both. "Be not hasty in judgment of Elminster's true friend," she said calmly. "He is not as he appears, for good reasons, and he is very worried for the safety of Elminster. The task I set you both now, friends, is the guarding of the Old Mage wherever you find him. Go now and seek him out."
  Itharr looked at her. "You will not be with us, Lady?"
  A shadow passed across Storm's face for just a moment. She looked at them both, and suddenly it seemed as if she were about to cry. Then she shrugged. Her hand dropped to the hilt of her blade and clenched about it like a thing of iron.
  "I cannot. I want to, very much, but this thing I must not do. Itharr, Belkram, please believe me. There is a good reason that I cannot be with you in this."
  "The burden of Mystra?" Belkram asked, very quietly. The taller of the two Harpers, he had frozen into treelike immobility but for the flashing of his keen eyes.
  Storm looked at him in silence, her face going slowly white.
  "I read a lot," Belkram added, almost defiantly. "Always old books, the sort others have forgotten. You learn more that way."
  Storm nodded very slowly. "Be very, very careful," she said to him in a voice that trembled a little, "Belkram of Everlund. The things you know could kill you very quickly if the wrong folk hear."
  "Such as myself?" Itharr asked half in jest. The shorter, burly Harper spread his hands in a wry "gods, why me?" gesture.
  Storm looked from one man to the other and then threw strong arms around them both and swept them into an embrace. Three chins touched. She bestowed two swift kisses, looked deep into both sets of eyes so close to hersat least one owner blushedand said briskly, "Go now. Take much care, and come back alive to tell me what has befallen. Hurry! For all his years, Elminster walks fast and can find trouble as well as men half his age. Or less," she added meaningfully. "Tymora smile upon thee. Which reminds me: Trust in no magic nor any god or goddess, for strangeness is afoot."
  "As usual," Itharr answered solemnly as they drew blades and saluted her in a flash of steel. "Our thanks, Lady. I shall never forget crossing blades with thee."
  "Nor I," Belkram added simply. "If you grow lonely, mind, and want a man about the place ..."
  Storm laughed and shooed them on their way. "Get you gone! Elminster waits for no man, nor woman!"
  * * * * *
  Sharantyr looked about. They had come to a land of wild ridges, trees, and winding, steep cart tracks linking overgrown farms. "Where are we? Northwest of Shadowdale, I know, but"
  "Dagger Wood," Elminster said briefly. "Daggerdale begins over that way." He waved to the northwest. "Not a place to be caught out in by night."
  "Shall I find us a place to sleep?" The lady ranger looked about. "Or go hunting? I had no time to find food, and it looks as if you brought none."
  "I never do," Elminster replied. "It's the work of but a thought and" He fell silent, then whispered, "And a little magic."
  Sharantyr's only reply was a firm, wordless clasp of his shoulder. Then she was gone, with the whispered words "Wait here" floating back to him. Elminster snorted, took a long stride after her, then stopped, shrugged, and felt for his pipe. Trust the lass to choose a place with no stump to sit on.
  * * * * *
  It was nearly dark before she returned. Two plump rabbits hung in one hand; the other held berries, mushrooms, and other things Elminster couldn't remember the names of. "My apologies for the length of our parting," Sharantyr said. "This land is wild indeed. Twice I've had to dodge orc arrows, andBut ne'er mind. Come, Old Mage. I've found us a camp."
  Elminster rose, smiled at her, and extended a hand for the rabbits. "You may need a free arm to swing a sword," he said impatiently. Dangling the rabbits before his eyes, he asked, "Dare we have fire?"
  Sharantyr shrugged. "There'll be others about, no doubt."
  "The orcs ye met?"
  "They'll bother no folk again," was the calm reply. Elminster looked at her slim, strong shoulders expressionlessly and followed her down into a wooded gully.
  "Magic gone for a day, and already I'm being ordered about by women," he said gruffly. Sharantyr cast a look back over her shoulder, and he winked. Shaking her head, she hastened on through a thicket of small trees whose branches caught at them both.
  Elminster grumbled and flailed along in her wake. Sharantyr's blade reached back from time to time to hold aside the worst of the barbed branches.
  They came out into a little open space that faced the setting sun. Below them the land fell away into a smooth-sloped hollow. It had once been a farmElminster could see the line of a ruined fencebut youngish trees now grew in its fields. The gaping, vine-cloaked ruins of a timber-and-stone house and barn rose on a far slope. Sharantyr nodded at them with her chin and said, "Come on. Let's get off this height. We can be seen for miles."
  "Can't an old man even enjoy the sunset?" Elminster grumbled, trotting obediently after her.
  "That depends on whether or not you want to live to see another sunset after this one," Sharantyr replied in low, wry tones. Elminster remembered a gesture from very long ago and made it in her general direction.
  Sharantyr only grinned and said fondly, "Now, you know I'm too young to know what that means," and led him down a twisting, overgrown trail that took them by stones across a little brook, and up again to the waiting, gloomy ruins ahead.
  Sharantyr looked at him in the gathering darkness. "Best move and speak quietly from now on. Can you cook?"
  "If ye light the fire," Elminster replied, glancing at the rabbits again.
  Sharantyr said only, "Wood," in reply and was gone again.
  * * * * *
  In the twilight, two Harpers stood over four dead men. "Not long gone," Itharr said, "and this one died by a dagger."
  "Lawless men," Belkram agreed, on his knees beside another body. "And not robbed of the few coins they carried, either." He frowned. "We've found no other trace of him, and Storm did say he collected trouble as roaming cats find fleas."
  Itharr grunted. "By the looks of thisif it was himwe're being sent to guard a marauding tiger, not a feeble old man."
  "What think you? Is this a false trail?"
  Itharr shrugged. "It's all we've found. It must be his doing, or he and another. There was a lot of running about here, and he may have someone else with him."
  Belkram shrugged. "In these woods, we'll lose any trail in the dark, unless he plans to mark his passage with brigands' bodies every hundred paces or so."
  They chuckled together. "That'd take a lot of brigands," Itharr replied. "We'd best drag these a good way off, to keep wolves and such from the tracks we'll want to find tomorrow."
  Belkram nodded, and they worked swiftly, dragging the bodies all in the same direction, toward and then around thick stands of trees, to a spot where it was unlikely any survivors of the fray had headed. When the bodies had been removed, the two Harpers retired to the dale again, camping near ruined Castle Grimstead, behind the new temples that had been raised west of the river.
  "We could be under Storm's roof this night," Belkram said softly after a time. Itharr looked at him and said nothing but grinned very slowly. After a moment, Belkram matched the expression.
  A good walk away, in the dark woods, wolves wore similar grins as they came warily to four sprawled bodies and began to feed.
  * * * * *
  The fire was long out. Sharantyr and Elminster lay shoulder to shoulder in the darkness, wrapped in their cloaks, awake but unspeaking. Around them, the small night noises of hunting animals rustled, hooted, and from time to time squeaked or snarled. They lay still, like two breathing stones, and hoped the night would pass them by.
  Suddenly, close by to the north, there came into being a glowing radiance in the trees. One moment it was not there, and the next it was. Magic.
  Wordlessly they struggled up and pulled on their boots. Sharantyr drew her sword but held her cloak up in front of it to ward off any flashing reflections. Elminster stepped to one side and melted into the dark shadow of what was left of a wall.
  The glowing had begun as pale amber in hue. It brightened now and swirled, at times more ruddy, at times almost green. Perhaps forty paces away, across rising ground, the glow hung in a little clearing amid the trees, forming an upright oval in the air.
  A mage-gate, without doubt. A moment later, a hard-eyed, wary man in the black armor of Zhentil Keep stepped out of the gate, a loaded crossbow ready in his hands. Behind him, a black-bladed saber appeared in the light, followed by the one who held it: another Zhentilar soldier.
  The two warriors stepped forward, twisting to look all around, weapons held ready. A moment later, another man emerged from the flickering oval. This one wore robes of rich purple, a cruel expression, and a short, pointed black beard. He carried a wand in one hand and was followed by a third armored soldier.
  The mage and his bodyguard stepped forward together. In the center of a protective ring of bodies, the bearded mage held the wand loosely in his hands. It shifted almost lazily back and forth, then seemed to quiver in his hands and point directly at where Sharantyr stood, unmoving, cloaked in darkness. A moment later the wand turned a bit to indicate where Elminster hid.
  The mage hissed something, and the guards closed ranks in front of him, weapons coming up, facing the ruined farmhouse. There was a half-seen gesture from behind them, and suddenly the night was lit as bright as day, and Elminster and Sharantyr were staring right into the eyes of the four men.
  The looks directed back at them were not pleasant. In the sudden silence they all heard one of the guards ask, "Lord?"
  The man in purple replied clearly, "Kill them, of course."

4
Doom Strolls In

  There was an instant of tense silence as everyone drew breath together. Then battle began, a race toward death that rent the night with the clangor of drawn arms and the roaring of unleashed magic.
  The bearded mage obviously thought he faced only two travelers who'd been unfortunate enough to choose a sleeping place where they could not help but witness the gate, and must therefore be eliminated. He was not expecting another wizard and did not care to expend any more magic than he'd used this night already.
  So he did nothing but watch as two of the black-armored guards lumbered forward warily, the one with the crossbow a little in the lead, and the other, blade out, keeping watchfully to one side. They came for Sharantyr first, no doubt judging her older companion to be in hiding out of weakness or fear.
  Drawn steel they knew the strength of, and they were two against one and larger. Besides, this woman seemed atremble with fear and barely knew how to hold her blade, much less use it. She bit her lip as they advanced, and took a slow, unwilling step back.
  The guard with the crossbow grinned and stepped to one side, Elminster's side, to a spot where he could fell either one of them. His companion came on toward Sharantyr to greet her with his drawn sword and a cold grin. She was pretty. Perhaps she need not die quickly.
  He caught his friend's eye and jerked his head toward the old man, indicating that a quarrel would make short work of him now, leaving just the wench. The old man shuffled sideways a little, looking helpless.
  The guard with the crossbow nodded and raised his weapon to take aim. It was then he saw that the old man was smiling.
  The sleeve fell away from Elminster's hand, and lightning cut the world in two.
  In the flash and sharp crack of the striking bolt, the crossbow jerked. Its bolt shot high into the night and away. The man in black armor danced briefly as crackling death played over him, then slumped to his knees and from there toppled to one side, lifeless. Smoke rose from his blackened helm.
  Sharantyr waited calmly for the other man to reach her. Her eyes flicked only briefly to the mage beyond, for she knew why Elminster had waited. His bolt had traveled on from the guard with the crossbow to crackle its deadly way around both the third guard and the bearded man in purple. No one was standing by the flickering gate now. Black armor twitched feebly on the ground.
  Elminster walked toward the gate, ignoring the last guard. That man had stopped, looking all around. His gaze swung back to Sharantyr. She was moving steadily forward now, a faint smile on her lips, all trace of nervousness gone. His comrades lay fallen where they had stood. The old man was strolling past as though nothing had occurred, too close to avoid his blade.
  The guard cast a last look at Sharantyr, judged he could slay the old man and have time to turn back and meet the wildest charge she might make. He spun about, and in two swift strides his blade was reaching for the old man.
  The wand, firing crosswise under Elminster's arm, spoke again. Lightning struck the Zhentilar full in the chest, plucking him from his feet and hurling him backward. He fell heavily, arms and legs flopping. Smoke rose from where he lay.
  Sharantyr shook her head. "There's nothing like giving the wolves a cooked feast," she observed.
  Elminster turned his head. "Both of these two yet live. Slay the mage, lest he work the same tricks I did, and we'll discourse pleasantly together with the last one awhile."
  Sharantyr did as she was bid. Her eyes were hard but her voice trembled a little as she said, "Well, that was easy work. Too easy, perhaps. Should we not move a pace or two away from this magic?"
  Elminster shrugged. "Move around behind it, perhaps. After we've disarmed and trammeled this one a bit to stop him moving, and taken what we can from the others."
  "Yes," Sharantyr said. "Of course." Her voice was grim. Elminster reached out a long arm to touch her shoulder.
  "Is killing hard for ye?" he asked quietly.
  "No," Sharantyr replied as softly, her eyes meeting his. "Not anymore. That bothers me, sometimes."
  Elminster nodded. "So long as it bothers ye, 'tis well. When it does not, the problems begin. I'll draw the fangs of the living one, if ye'll rob the dead ones. Age hath its privileges, and choosing the nobler task is one."
  She raised a dark eyebrow. "What? Elminster of Shadowdale choosing the nobler task? Are my ears ensorcelled?"
  Elminster sighed. "Mockery," he observed heavily, "seems the paramount privilege of youth."
  "Youth?" Sharantyr dimpled, and raised a hand to her hair coquettishly. "Why, thank you."
  Elminster snorted. "Get on with it, lass. I'd like to speak to this one while he yet lives. I think the mage recognized me before he died."
  "Which means?"
  "Old foes. The Zhentarim, almost certainly." The Old Mage heard his battle companion hiss, raised his eyebrows, and continued. "Others, too, perhaps. And with me not at my best."
  Sharantyr laid a hand on his arm. "We make a good team, Old Mage. Worry not."
  Elminster rolled his eyes and opened his mouth to reply. Then he stiffened and his face changed.
  Sharantyr's blade rose. "Elminster? Whamagic? Attacking you?"
  The Old Mage waved his hands in a weak negative. His face was paler than it had been, and he sighed heavily
  "Glad I am, lass, that we were through with that"he pointed at the bodies around"ere this befell."
  "What is it? Are you well?"
  Elminster nodded a little wearily. Sharantyr saw that his forehead was wet with sweat.
  "Some power has left me. Azuth or Mystra or her successor . . . calling on it. Not a hostile thing, but disconcerting all the same." He looked up. "Well? Have ye turned out the boots and purses of the departed yet?"
  Sharantyr grimaced. "Old Mage," she added very quietly, "there are things I must know first."
  Elminster rolled his eyes again. "There always are," he agreed pleasantly, and waited.
  Sharantyr made another face. "Elminster," she said, pointing with her blade, "you were deadly enough with that wand just now. Tell me, if we're to walk together awhile, just what magic do you carry? What does it do and, if worst befalls, can I use any of it? If so, how?"
  Elminster's hand rose with exaggerated feebleness. "Wait, wait," he protested in the effete tones of a Sembian dandy. "I never can keep track of more than two questions at a time. There ought to be a law, to keep wenches down to asking just two of each man until they're answered."
  Sharantyr just looked at him.
  Elminster grinned and said, "All right. Ye are right to ask, and should know. Of what I carry, ye can use only the wand in my right bootit hurls magic missiles: one missile if ye think the word alag and two if ye think baulgoss; my belt flask, which contains an elixir of healthye know, cures disease, poison, an' all that; and the rings I wear, which work without any guidance on thy part. One allows ye to land lightly after any fall, and the other turns away some spells. There's another ring in my purse; it heals wounds when worn. It works but slowly, mind ye, so don't go being heroic. Got all that?"
  Sharantyr looked at him again. Then she looked up at the night sky overhead and told the stars, "There ought to be a law..."
  Elminster chuckled. "I also have the wand of lightnings ye saw and my pipe, which holds a trick or two. Naught else."
  Sharantyr raised an eyebrow. "No? You surprise me. How you can stagger along under the weight of all that and look at me long-faced to say you have no magic is beyond all belief."
  Elminster chuckled. "Baubles, lass. At least, until thy life depends on them and all else is gone"his smile died suddenly"as it has gone." Then he thought of something more. "Another thing: All of these trinkets are old and may not work as others ye have seen."
  "Old? How old?"
  "Ah, well, Myth Drannan, most of them."
  Sharantyr sighed. "I'll just go and see to robbing these corpses, shall I?"
  Elminster got out his pipe. "Not a moment sooner than I thought ye would," he grunted, watching the flickering gate.
  Sharantyr gestured rudely at him with her sword and went to the farthest body. Strangling was the most fitting fate for mages. No, shutting several of them up in a room together to drive each other mad with their testy, interminable drivelahem, eloquence. Yes. That would be best. She had to survive all this to get to Berdusk and suggest the process to a few Harpers. It would definitely be a service to civilized folk everywhere.
  * * * * *
  Among them, the dead men had carried no more than a handful of coins, assorted daggers, two skins of water, two metal flasks containing what Sharantyr suspected were magical healing potions, andon the wizard of coursea plain brass ring and a belt purse holding only a rusted, hand-size iron sphere.
  Elminster's eyes lit at the sight of the sphere. "Devised long ago by Azuth himself," he said with satisfaction. "Those who use his truename can command any of these spheres, even if they don't know the command word of the particular sphere."
  "And you know Azuth's truename?"
  Elminster looked hurt. "Of course."
  Sharantyr sighed. Of course. "So who was this Bilarro whom such spheres are named for?"
  "A later, lesser mage," Elminster sniffed. "He saw one such sphere, learned through diligence and much misadventure how to make his own, and retired fat and rich on the proceeds of a life of selling such baubles to every swordsman fearful of magic. I've heard that a treacherous apprentice used one on him in the end, and cast him into a nearby pond to see if he could swim. But that may be just a tavern tale."
  Sharantyr sighed again. Did wizards spend all their lives scheming and keeping score? She looked around at the night-shrouded trees, the ruins, and the glowing, flickering oval of light. Nothing moved. Firm schooling took her on a careful walk around the edge of the area lit by the gate, looking into the night more carefully. She could see no life, no lurking menace, but her sword did not leave her hand.
  "Old Mage," she said as she rejoined Elminster, "let us make haste. I do not think it wise to tarry here overlong."
  "And ye are right," he agreed grandly. Sharantyr was raising an annoyed eyebrow and parting her lips to speak before he slowly winked.
  "It's a wonder," the lady ranger murmured to the guard, as she bent over to take him by the armpits and drag him around behind the glowing gate, "why anyone puts up with archmages long enough to let them reach their advanced powers. You'd think a lot more of them would be drowned or strangledor have their tongues torn out by the rootsbefore they'd been a year or two at their studies."
  The guard, flopping limply and heavily in her grasp, did not reply.
  * * * * *
  Elminster seemed to take a very long time getting ready to question the last guard. Sharantyr had removed the man's gauntlets, helm, and belt, using the latter to tie his hands together. After examining the mage's body thoroughly for hidden weapons or items that might be magical, she dumped it atop the guard, pinning his arms and midsection under its weight. Elminster nodded approvingly but kept on examining their booty, muttering to himself and making faces.
  At length he opened both vials, sniffed them with the air of a connoisseur, tasted what his fingertip found of both, and said, "These heal, and as far as I can tell do naught else. Ye carry them both, for ye may well have more need of them." He grinned reassuringly and said, "Carry the mage's ring, also, but do not put it on. Keep it hidden in thy belt, to show as a token from him should we need such a ruse. We dare not try to use it."
  Sharantyr took the proffered items and laid a hand on the Old Mage's arm. Her eyes were dark and serious.
  "Elminster," she asked, "should you be getting into this sort of strugglewith mages you do not know and gates that go you know not wherein your present, ah, vulnerable condition?"
  Elminster glared at her for a moment and shrugged. "Ye're young yet, Shar. Ye can't know. 'Tis not pride that makes me poke my nose into all affairs of Art that I come across. 'Tis what I am and what I do. When ye live as long as I have and have seen thy friends, foes, and homes all swept away, one after another, with the endless passing years, all that is left is what ye believe in and strive for. I dare not stay in Shadowdale, to bring danger down on it, but I'll not run away to cower or hide, daring nothing."
  He patted her hand where it rested on his arm, then gently pulled free to face her. "Crawl off into a hole and die before I'm dead? Nay, this is what I stand for, and what I'll do."
  Sharantyr nodded. "I meant no offense. I'm sorry. I wanted to learn your will, ere we were swept away into battles again."
  Elminster grinned suddenly. "And I've told thee, as usual. Thy ears must grow very weary of my voice."
  Sharantyr smiled faintly. "Such words would never pass my lips," she said with affected dignity. Then she added slyly, "but I often think them. Love stays my tongue."
  " 'Tis a rare love that does that," Elminster said feelingly. He chuckled and said, "Shall we slap this fellow awake and treat ye to more of my tongue?"
  Sharantyr grinned. "We shall. I'm getting too old to need sleep at night."
  Elminster winced. "I'll be as swift as I can be." He laid a warning finger on his lips to bid her be silent. Unclipping his belt flask, he held it upside down over the guard's head, loosening the stopper so that a thin stream splashed on the man's forehead and ran down into his eyes.
  The warrior shuddered, wrinkled his eyes convulsively. He snorted and awoke, knuckling his eyes and moaning.
  "Well met," Elminster said briskly. "Thy name?"
  "Mulser," the man said, and groaned. "Iit burns inside!"
  "Those who defy the lords of Zhentil Keep must pay the price," Elminster said sharply. "This gate ye came here by, where does it lead?"
  "Zhentil? You are of the Brotherhood?"
  "Aye," Elminster said solemnly. "My name is both near and dear to Lord Manshoon. I speak with authority that bows only to his word."
  "Gods," the man groaned, and drew a trembling breath. "I... hurt, Lord. I... I'll try to serve you, but I fear I can't"he struggled for a moment and then fell back with a groan"can't rise," he gasped, sweating.
  Elminster laid a hand on his forehead. "Rest and lie still. Answer my questions; that is all ye need do."
  When he brought his hand away again, Sharantyr saw that it glistened with the man's sweat. The Old Mage bent close to the man and asked, "This gate, Mulser. Where did ye come from?"
  The man gasped for breath a moment and then said, "Thethe High Dale. Lord, why do you not know this?"
  "It appears," Elminster said in heavy, sinister tones, "that some among us have seen fit to act on their own, as it were. Word of these doings has only just reached my ears. I need you, Mulser, to tell me who of the Brotherhood is in the High Dale, and what exactly befalls there. Speak freely. I value honesty, not toadying words. Tell me, now, who is master in the dale?"
  "H-Heladar Longspear, Lord."
  "He is of us?"
  "A Zhentilar like myself, Lord. He served in the taking of the Citadel, and in Daggerdale. He is hard, but a good blade."
  "Which mages back him?"
  "Angruin Stormcloak gives him his orders."
  "Angruin Myrvult?" Elminster sounded surprised.
  "Aye, Lord."
  "He's come far. Where does he get his orders?"
  "Zhentil Keep itself, Lord." The man's breathing grew labored again, and he coughed weakly. When his voice came again, it was fainter. "I don't know who he reports to ... not my right to know."
  "How many wizards and apprentices are under Angruin?"
  "AhhI can't think, Lord. Pardon, if you will . . . There's Hcarla; he's a bad one. I don't think even his mother ever trusted him. Then there's Sabryn, who was with us here. Is he?"
  "I'll deal with him later," Elminster said coldly. "Go on. These are the mages of power?"
  "Those, and a quiet one called Nordryn."
  "Any others?"
  "Four lesser. Two who rode to battle in Daggerdale: Mrinden and Kalassyn. They're all right, and can hurl fire or lightning if called on."
  "The last two?"
  "Apprentices, sneaks and noses-in-the-air. Haragh and Ildomyl. They mostly do gate-guard duty on the roads."
  "And how many swords does Longspear command, loyal warriors like yourself?"
  "I... know not, Lord. Forty, perhaps. Not many more. With perhaps a dozen hireswords, mainly crossbowmen ... from Sembia." Mulser groaned again.
  "Easy, Mulser," Elminster said, patting his shoulder gently. "Rest easy. Tell me, what does Longspear, as ruler of the High Dale, have you men do?"
  "We . . . we take passage tolls, Lord. One copper a head, two coppers a horse or mule, and two silver falcons per wagon. No priests or wizards are allowed in. All who carry magic must yield it to us until they leave. All who enter must pay. We've already had to escort envoys from SemurrghhSembia and Cormyr, complaining about the tolls."
  "Why don't merchants just go around you, using the road through Daerlun?"
  "I've been told," Mulser said, cynical humor dryly audible through the rough pain in his voice, "that the brigands are particularly bad just now. They're ... in the Vast Swamp, Lord, and hired by whoever in the Brotherhood has sponsored Stormcloak. The road is ... too dangerous for passage without heavy escorts. No lone wagons get through."
  Elminster chuckled coldly. "I see how the land rises and falls. How are the dalefolk taking your presence?"
  "It's fairly quiet, Lord. They hold no love for us. They call us bladesmen the 'Wolves,' but they're mostly old men. Since Stormcloak made an example of the high constable, they've knuckled under." He coughed again and added weakly, "We had to kill the constables and their archers, of course, to take the place."
  "And the wizards?" Elminster's voice was suddenly like a sword blade sheathed in ice.
  "Iwe found none, Lord, so far as I know. Only a couple of fat old priests. Longspear has them locked up in the High Castle."
  "Your barracks is there?"
  "Nno . . . aghhh . . . Sorry, Lord, my barracks is up north of the castle, near this gate ... the other end of it I mean, Lord ..."
  "But most of the bladesmen are at the castle?"
  "No, less than half. Most are in Eastkeep or Westkeep, and there's another four barracks like mine. All the others are at the castle, yes."
  "Are there any priests of the Brotherhood with you?"
  Mulser was silent a long time, frowning. Then he said slowly, "Now that's curious, Lord. Saragh was saying to me just yesterday that he'd seen none with us in the taking, and we've neither of us seen any since. If there are any Dread Brothers there now, they're keeping well hidden."
  "I see. Is there anything else of importance to the Brotherhood, Mulser, that ye think ye should tell me?"
  Mulser coughed again, weakly, and shook his head. "I... don't think so, Lord. If there's any secrets in the dale, I know them not."
  "Ye've been most helpful, Mulser, a credit to the Brotherhood. It has been many long years since anyone in our ranks has been so honest with me. Ye've done well."
  "Thank you, Lord." Mulser's breath came in gasps now. "I... I thought I'd nothing to lose, Lord. I know I'm done for, an'... and I'd rather talk to you, than ... go alone."
  "Ye're not alone, good Mulser," Elminster said gravely. "Have you any family? A lass? Anyone we should send word to?"
  "N-no. I thought... so ... once, but" The laboring, wheezing voice suddenly caught. Mulser made a little bubbling, choking sound and fell silent. Elminster looked into the warrior's eyes until they stopped seeing anything, then got up stiffly and said, "Go to the gods in peace, Mulser."
  Sharantyr's eyes were tender yet angry. "You were kind to him," she said. Elminster shrugged. "And yet," she added slowly, "he is a Zhentilar, one of the Black Blades that have spent years carving up the Dales and the dalefolk that live in them. One of those we must fight every season. Zhentilar chained me as a slave, once. I was running from their cruelties when the drow took me."
  Elminster touched her arm. "I've seen ye strike down Zhentilar before, right eagerly. Does doing so heal any of those memories?"
  Sharantyr's eyes were dark as she said coldly, "No. Not yet." She lifted the naked sword that lay across her knees and added, "But 'tis not for lack of trying."
  The old wizard sighed. " 'Tis not my place to judge. All of us are driven by things. Even this poor soldier." He nudged Mulser's body with his foot. "One of my tasks is to strike down the evil folk who drove him on, those who command the Black Blades. Such foes make the Zhentarim truly dangerous."
  "If you're going to keep on at that task, I'll fight beside you with a right good will," Sharantyr said fiercely.
  They regarded each other in silence for a breath, then the Old Mage turned away.
  "Come," he said shortly. "We must hide these dead men and go on." He strode away into the night almost angrily, and Sharantyr looked after him with concern.
  Elminster went only a little way, growled, and came back looking fierce. "My pardon, please, lass," he said grimly. " 'Tis a churl's act to make thee do all the carrion heaving alone."
  Sharantyr, puffing under Mulser's dead weight, said only, "Take his feet, then."
  They spent a few uncomfortable breaths puffing and struggling in the darkness and then were done. The bodies lay in a corner of the ruins where two walls met, buried under all the rubble Sharantyr could shift: stones, old beams, tiles, and a few tangled creepers.
  Elminster walked slowly back and looked at the oval of floating, glowing light. Sharantyr rolled her eyes, breast heaving with her efforts, and set the last large rock on the pile before going after him.
  "Well," she panted, as she joined him, "what now?"
  Elminster smiled at her mildly, gestured at the gate flickering silently before him, and then calmly strolled through it.
  * * * * *
  They were somewhere dark. Out of the night above and ahead of them came a hissing crossbow bolt. Elminster calmly shoved Sharantyr to one side and leapt the other way. The quarrel hissed past.
  They were crouching on turf, with mountains rising at their backs and far ahead of them. Just ahead, the ground descended into the High Dale. From the trees there came another bolt, this one close enough to stir Elminster's thinning hair though he was well away from the gate's glow. The shaft must have been fired blind.
  Then from the trees came the unmistakable booming sound of an alarm gong, the finest brass-and-drum sort sold in Sembia for a gold piece each.
  "Oh, dung," Elminster said clearly into the night. From somewhere off to his left he heard a snort as Sharantyr stifled a giggle. Elminster rolled his eyes and trotted forward. The sentinel would have to be up a tree, now that the heroic archmage of Shadowdale was getting a bit too old for climbing trees in the dark. Oh, dung and double dung, indeed.

5
Alarms, and Adventure Found

  Sharantyr had expected trouble on the other side of the gate. A temple or gloomy spell chamber, perhaps, crowded with evil-looking men and weird, gibbering creatures who slunk, slithered, or prowled the lengths of their chainsor worse, prowled unleashed.
  She'd expected trouble, and Elminster had not failed her. They'd found it.
  Instead of a castle or cavern, they stood under the open sky between two mountain ranges. By the stars, they were south and a little west of Shadowdale, and she was facing south. Here it was a fair, clear night with a cool breeze blowing gently from the east. The grass under her feet descended to trees, the source of their trouble: an alarm gong and someone who had fired two ready crossbows dangerously well. Or more than one someone.
  That thought kept Shar crouched low as she ran forward across the little dell, dodging but heading to the left, trying to get as far as possible from the amber radiance of the gate behind her. The gong sounded again, a faster, repeated ringing as if the sentinel were scared. Wise of him.
  Sharantyr's rapid progress brought her to the lip of the dell. A trackgrassy and rutted, wide enough for cartsdescended toward barnlike buildings, lamplight, and, in the distance amid a torchlit cluster of buildings at the bottom of the valley, the unmistakable walls of a small, stout old castle.
  A faint crackling of branches warned her of the guard's descent and probable attack. Sharantyr turned to face the sound and shrank farther to the left into the concealing shadow of bushes. What was Elminster doing?
  More crackling. The guard was descending a wooden ladder, snapping branches aside in his haste. Sharantyr tried to look like part of the night, her blade held low and ready in her own shadow, her head bowed to keep her eyes small and screened by her hair. Soon . . . soon . . . Now!
  The guard was hurrying the last few steps. His haste would carry him right past her. His gaze could not help but fall on her, and he could stick her with anything long and sharp he might have before she could even land a blow. Gods spit on us all!
  A familiar, testy voice came out of the night from the other side of the ladder, behind the descending guard. "I'm over here, by the gods! Who taught ye to shoot a crossbow, anyway, Manshoon himself?"
  Sharantyr didn't blame the guard. She could not have heard that taunt and failed to turn and look. The shadowy man pivoted as he landed, blade sweeping around to confront the unseen speaker. Sharantyr rose out of the night from behind him like a hungry shadow. Her hand jerked his head back sharply, covering his mouth and robbing him of breath at the same time. Her blade flashed as she drew it sideways with cold precision, and she ducked low to keep most of the blood out of her hair.
  "Done this before, have ye?" Elminster asked out of the darkness. Sharantyr sighed loudly and shook her head as the man died in her arms.
  "Old Mage," she hissed in anger. "Must you?"
  Elminster spread innocent hands. "I'm not sure what ye're on about, this time, but we have only breaths before whatever comrades this fellow haser, hadrespond to his gong. Flip him over and drag him by the feet, facedown, to the gate. I want a trail of blood even a blind Calishite couldn't miss. Where'd he drop his crossbow? Ah, I have it. Come!"
  Sharantyr did as she was bid. In the flickering light of the gate, Elminster's face was intent as he crouched low. "Down, lass. Against the light ye make a most fetching target, I must say, but 'tis not the time. Got thy dagger handy? Good. Make ye the Harper marks for 'Trap Ahead' and 'Keep Low' on his breast."
  "On flesh or his leathers?"
  "Leathers, lass, leathers. Harpers have to read 'em, mind, and they're apt to be as blind as the next cow, in the dark."
  Sharantyr swiftly cut the two diagonally crossed inverted T shapes that warned of a trap, and then the circle bisected by a horizontal line, with a parallel line atop it, that warned observing Harpers to keep their bodies low.
  Elminster nodded critically, laid the crossbow across the man's legs, and asked, "Head or feet?"
  Sharantyr swiftly said, "Feet for me. Your turn for the blood."
  Elminster wrinkled his nose. Together they lifted the body, swung it twice, and tossed it faceup into the oval of light. It passed through soundlessly and was gone. Sharantyr had to grin when Elminster bent to peek under the oval to make sure that the body wasn't just lying on the ground behind it. The grass was bare.
  The wizard rose in a smooth pivot that brought him around facing the guard tree again. "Quick, lass. Show me the ladder," he growled, trotting across the grass again.
  "The name's Shar, old man," Sharantyr told him, amused. He merely grunted. She raced past him with smooth strides in the darkness and laid her hand on the ladder. "Here."
  "Right. Now find me the first tree in that direction ye can climb," he ordered, pointing west along the edge of the dell. Sharantyr gave him a look that he saw most of as she passed, but he merely grinned and followed her, taking out the wand that spat lightnings and muttering something over it.
  The lady ranger turned, hand on hip, only her face visible in the darkness. "Here. Is that someone coming?"
  "Undoubtedly. Take this"he handed her the wand, butt-first"and this." Into the same hand he put a strangling-wire taken from inside his boot.
  Sharantyr frowned. "Where'd youno, strike that. I don't want to know."
  "Wise of ye. Take the wand up the tree and affix it there, somewhere sturdy where its aim won't slip with wind or working loose. I want it pointing squarely at the gate, and ye back down here, in a breath or less."
  "Oh, yes, Lord," she said in mocking, breathless tones. Elminster grinned and patted some unseen part of her as she climbed past, stepping swiftly back to avoid a kick that did not come.
  He bent his head to listen and heard again the hurrying thud of boots and creaking of leather and metal armor that meant death was swiftly coming up the track for them.
  He got his other wand into his hand, just to be wise and ready. There was a thump beside him, and Sharantyr was coming back to her feet after her leap, breathing heavily. He took her hand.
  "Done? Good, come!"
  Together, hand in hand, they ran east. Sharantyr was astonished to find the Old Mage's long, scrawny legs twinkling ahead of hers, as swift as any stag, tugging her along faster across the dell. Abruptly Elminster's hand jerked her to the left along the line of trees, to where the rocks of the mountain began to rise.
  "Here! Quick and quiet, now," Elminster panted. "Let's get as far as we can without making any noise." Together, like two heavily breathing shadows, they slipped away along the line of tumbled rocks, creeping and crawling where they had to, cushioning each other to avoid noisy falls, and more than once ending up face-to-face, gasping the same air in the darkness. Behind them they could see the torches and flashing blades, and hear occasional shouted orders of the large group of men-at-arms who were searching the dell and the trees around it.
  "What now?" Sharantyr whispered into Elminster's ear as the rocky tongue of a mountain hid the last glimmers of torchlight from their view.
  "We go on, east, the length of the dale," the Old Mage whispered back and turned to continue. "If the castle was down that track, we started from about halfway along the dale."
  Sharantyr squeezed his shoulder, bringing him to a halt. "It's not that I don't mind losing an entire night's sleep fighting and running about," she whispered, "but I would like some answers, please."
  Elminster nodded. "Ye shall have them, after we put another twenty breaths or so of travel behind us. I want no blades following us."
  Sharantyr whispered back simply, "Lead on," and he did.
  * * * * *
  They crossed a small stream and another, babbling rivulets snaking amid the stones and winking back starlight beneath their feet. Elminster stopped finally, in a shadowed spot where they could sit on rocks and look out over a moonlit expanse of rock and scrub below, before the dark wall of the trees began.
  "Ask, then," he bid her simply, passing his belt flask over.
  Sharantyr wet her lips with its water. "The wand?"
  "Most Myth Drannan wands can be speech-set."
  Sharantyr chuckled softly and waited.
  So did he, of course. She rolled her eyes. "Explain," she ordered flatly.
  Elminster grinned in the darkness and said, "Unlike wands made today, ye can cause that wand of mine to unleash its magic by itself, with no hand upon it and no word spoken. Ye're familiar with the spell called 'magic mouth' by most? Aye, like that. When the conditions ye speak are met, the wand fires. I recalled that I'd never set that oneye can only do it onceso I set it to discharge when someone in robes, or carrying a staff or wand, comes through the gate into the dale."
  "IntoAh, that's why the 'keep low' warning for Harpers. A nasty trap." Her last words had an edge to them.
  Elminster looked at her closely. "Are ye all right, lass?"
  Sharantyr shook her head angrily. "I'm justSlaying Zhents is one thing, but killing people I have no quarrel with, and whose faces I haven't even seen, just doesn't sit well with me, that's all."
  Elminster put a hand on her shoulder. "I'm sorry I've dragged ye into all this," he said quietly.
  After a long, silent moment she put strong fingers over his and said as softly, "Don't be."
  They sat together, silent and unmoving, for a long time.
  After awhile, Elminster looked up at the stars, chuckled, and asked, "Can I have my hand back now, Shar?"
  Sharantyr patted it and let it go. "I've another question, Old Mage."
  " 'Elminster,' please. 'El,' if ye prefer. Ask."
  "Aren't you worried about all those mages the guard told us about? Will they not find you by magic?"
  "Nay, they can't find me. Those who bear Mystra's burden can't be put to sleep, held immobile, or commanded by magic that strikes at the mind. To all magic that searches, spies, or tries to control, we are simply not there."
  "I thought thy amuletthe greenstone amulet like Storm wearsdid that."
  Elminster grinned. "I wear it to conceal those powers of the burden. Besides, if I wear it, I have it to give to a traveling companion in need of it. If I'd been wise enough to be wearing it when I went walking, I'd give it ye now."
  Sharantyr's eyes were dark again. "Without it, how can I avoid being found by these prying magics?"
  "Ah, yes." Elminster grinned and put a bony arm around her shoulders. "Now that's why these stars find ye and I hurrying about in the dark." He rose and tugged at her hand. "Come on," he said briefly, and she got up and went with him into the night.
  * * * * *
  "Nothing, sir," the ranking swordsman said, torchlight gleaming on his black armor.
  "Do you mean," Mrinden said in a voice thick with incredulous rage, "that someone came through the gate, slew the watchman, and disappeared, all in the time it took us to get up the hill from the barracks? How stupid d'you think I am?"
  "There's no trace of them, sir," the senior Sword replied stolidly. "They're either deep in the woods or are past us into the open dale already. Or they went back through that." He inclined his head toward the flickering gate. "You've seen the blood, sir."
  Mrinden turned to Kalassyn. "Well?"
  Kalassyn drew his fellow wizard into a face-to-face huddle and spoke in low tones. "If they're past us, we'll never find them. It's either a personal affaira man, maybe even one of ours, bent on killing whomever we left on watch, for his own reasonsor a lone meddler who will turn up in the dale tomorrow. There's been no time to bring in a large band and hide them all or get away without us hearing. Most likely they went back through the gate."
  Mrinden frowned. "That trail is just a mite obvious, isn't it?"
  "A trap?"
  Mrinden nodded.
  Kalassyn shrugged. "We've no choice but to go through, unless you want to explain to Stormcloak or Bellwind why we did not. Sabryn went through earlier this evening, on some secret affair I'm not supposed to know the slightest thing about. Perhaps he needs help and tried to get to us."
  "And the attempt ended in slaughter? That means we'll be walking into alert and waiting death!"
  Kalassyn shrugged again. "You sound like one of the younger priests. What mage doesn't walk toward death, where'er he goes? Eh?"
  Mrinden jerked his head about angrily to glare at the silently waiting men-at-arms. "We're going through the gate!" he snarled at them. "Form up in an arrow. I want twelve to remain behind and watch for any strangers in the trees. If you cross blades with anyone, send a band down to rouse the rest of the barracks. The rest of you, load crossbows and point them at the sky. Move!"
  In weary silence the black-armored Wolves formed up, the senior Sword choosing the dozen who would stand rear guard. The two Zhentarim walked into the midst of the wedge of armed men, almost invisible in their black robes, and gestured curtly for the arrow to close around them, protecting their backs.
  Mrinden addressed the men. "This gate is perfectly safe. Simply walk into it as if it weren't there. You'll set foot next in a wooded area where armed and ready foes may be waiting. Don't stop to gawk. If something moves, shoot it and move on in haste to let the rest of us through." He looked around. Expressionless black helms looked back at him. He drew in a deep breath. "Right, then move!"
  Without an answering word, the black-armored dealers of death marched forward into the oval of waiting light.
  
  "They've come this way," Itharr said, examining a faint heel mark of damp earth on a rock. "I'm sure of it."
  "Elminster, aye, but who's the other?" Belkram asked, blade out, peering into the night-shrouded trees around them.
  Itharr shrugged. "We'll find out, no doubt," he said dryly. "Come on." Silently they stalked on, alert and dangerous.
  The two Harpers had been restless, unable to settle down for the night after they'd found Elminster's trail.
  They'd been lying on the turf, heads pillowed on their boots, discussing where the Old Mage was most likely headingnorthwest, it seemed, straight into the heart of lawless Daggerdalewhen they'd both felt a peculiar creeping, prickling sensation. There was a sudden tension in their heads, a rising surge of power that slowly died away. This was followed by another flicker of force, then nothing.
  "What was that?" Itharr asked, eyes wide.
  "Strong magic unleashed," Belkram said. "I've felt it that strongly only once before, in a battle near the Greycloak Hills against Zhents out of Darkhold, when the spellsinger Andarra was dying. She spent her life-force in a song that made all magic go wild, so Zhent wizards would have to fight, dagger and sword, like all others. We all felt the effect of her sacrifice."
  "Strong magic," Itharr said slowly, eyes narrowing. "Elminster!" He rolled to his feet, wincing at the cold, and reached for his boots. "Let's hence!"
  Belkram grunted himself upright, breath curling around him like smoke in the night chill, and pulled on one boot. "Hence away," he agreed, feeling for his blade. So they did.
  They were now entering the broken, wooded country of ridges and ravines that marked Dagger Wood, the southeast edge of Daggerdale. It would be easy to lose the trail, so the two Harpers slowed. Since Zhentil Keep's forces had hounded Randal Morn and his folk into hiding, the dale ahead had become lawless country, roamed by horrific beasts, brigands, and marauding Zhent-hired mercenary bands, mainly orcs. Not country for two men without magic to wander about in at night.
  They were both thinking this, swords held ready as they came up over a ridge, when they saw a light ahead, an upright amber oval of radiance hanging motionless in the trees.
  They looked at each other, nodded, started forwardand came to a halt almost immediately. Armored men had suddenly appeared out of the light, scattering into the open space in front of it with swords drawn. The two Harpers saw robed men gesturing commandingly.
  They traded glances again. Belkram laid a hand on Itharr's arm and murmured, "Let's stay low and just watch. I'd wager a large amount that Elminster is involved in this, but I don't see him anywhere."
  Itharr had been watching the men intently. "Aye. They seem to be looking for him, or us, or anyone about."
  They sank down to their elbows, looked behind them, and shifted apart to lie under the shelter of shrubs, blades ready beside them. Itharr scratched his nose.
  "Those are Zhents, or I'm a Calishite."
  Belkram peered at him through the darkness. "No," he said, "you haven't turned into a Calishite, and I can't say I've noticed you oiling your hide and perfuming your gold coins these last few summers."
  Itharr sighed theatrically. "No? I try to be so subtle."
  Belkram snorted and they fell silent, watching the Zhentarim searching the woods, closer and closer. The two Harpers waited intently, as still as stone, like two hawks on a perch watching for prey.
  * * * * *
  "Nothing," Mrinden said angrily.
  "Nothing save this," Kalassyn pointed out, nudging the sentinel's body with his foot. Mrinden made a rude noise and waved his hands in exasperation.
  "Either we've been raided and the raiders have got clean awaywe'll never find anyone in these woods, in the dark, unless by pure chance we fall right over themor they're in the dale right now, whoe'er they are, and past us. In either case we must return. Call the men back."
  Kalassyn gave curt orders to the Sword, who nodded and hastened away.
  Mrinden stared angrily at the stars above and the trees around until the Sword returned and spoke at his elbow. "Lord, we are here and await your orders."
  Mrinden tossed his head like an angry stallion and glared at the man. "Choose seven of your best to remain behind. They are to let no one through the gate but a ranking mage of the Zhentarim and those with him. Their orders are to slay all others; let no one see this gate and live to tell of it. When light comes, they must search the area carefully. No intelligent creature must elude their search, or it will go ill with all of you later. Understood?"
  "Aye, Lord." A cool night breeze slid past them. Mrinden shivered and turned abruptly toward the light.
  "The rest of you follow me." He strode back into the radiance. The Sword was already waving a gauntleted hand; the main body of warriors hastened to follow. Kalassyn joined their line near the back, looking around one last time at the dark trees and the stars overhead.
  As he glanced up, a star fell, trailing a silent path across the cloak of night. Kalassyn looked down, quickly, and said nothing. He wanted no soldiers reading ill omens into signs none in Faerun were wise enough to interpret. Even as he told himself that, his own heart sank, and it was with fear that Kalassyn returned to the High Dale.
  Perhaps the star brought good fortune. Kalassyn was safely through the gate, and the last of the returning Wolves with him, when two Harpers rose out of the night behind the seven-man guard like two death-dealing temple pillars. The guards had not yet turned from watching the last black boot heel vanish into the silent light when steel took the throats of the first.
  The third man to fall managed a strangled roar as he went down, and the remaining Zhentilar wheeled around in frantic haste. An instant later, blades flashed in the amber glow, steel rang, and men twisted, lunged, and scrambled. Overhead another star fell, but each man there was too busy to notice it.
  * * * * *
  When Kalassyn strode forward and in a footfall returned to the High Dale, it was like stepping into an inferno. The rumble and flash of fire was dying away all around him. Somewhere nearby a man was sobbing, and smoke was so thick in the air that he could see nothing of trees or lights or the men who had preceded him.
  Then, without warning, fire came again.
  Kalassyn staggered in helpless, sightless pain, struggling to stand amid the roiling winds of the bright, searing blast. Off to the left, a man screamed, and an instant later Kalassyn fell over a huddled, armored form.
  He landed hard atop another guard, whose black armor was hot enough to burn. Kalassyn rolled off as hastily as he could, cursing weakly. Crawling pain told him his robes were ablaze. Tears blinded him as he tore away his garb in flaming strips, shrieking at the agony spreading from his frantic, trembling hands.
  Somehow he staggered on and sank to his knees at last in grass that was not scorched or ablaze.
  He must... now would be the time to ...
  Kalassyn of Zhentil Keep fought for and found an instant to wonder if he was dying, but it was snatched away again by flames that roared in to fill his mind.

6
Fire in the Night

  "Lord? Lord, do ye live?"
  Kalassyn struggled to reply and discovered he was lying on scorched grass, legs twisted awkwardly under him.
  He raised his head and, through a blur of tears, made out a dark, helmed head bent anxiously over him. Behind the first man, another guard stood holding a torch. Kalassyn winced, turning his eyes away from the flickering light.
  "Aye," he said at last, struggling to move stiff, blackened lips. They cracked, with little twinges of pain, but the rest of him hurt far worse. "Whatwhat happened?"
  "Fire out of the night, Lord. From a tree next to the guard tree. We've surrounded it, but there's been no sound or movement since the second strike felled ye."
  Kalassyn struggled. Pain stabbed at him. "Help me up," he snarled.
  "Aye, Lord." Hands like heavy stones fell upon his shoulders, and he whimpered despite himself as he was gently hauled to his feet. Reeling, he fell to one knee. The hands steadied him, raised him again, and stayed there. He clung to them without shame and looked around.
  After what seemed a very long time, as breath whispered and hissed in and out of his tortured lungs, he could see again.
  It was not an inspiring sight. He was naked, covered with matted grass and burned hair. Behind him, smoke still rose from a ring of grass in front of the calmly glowing, unchanged gate. Within the ring lay the blackened bodies of five... six... no, eight Wolves and, facedown at their forefront, Mrinden. Bones showed here and there in the ashy ruin of the wizard. Kalassyn doubted he'd ever hear that nasty voice snapping orders again.
  He looked away and saw other men groaning and clutching themselves in agony, their armor blackened and burned, or torn off. Others stood as if dazed or walked with the stiff strides of strong men in pain but determined not to let it diminish them. Of the band that had hurried up from the barracks not so long ago, only a handful still stood.
  Kalassyn swallowed, thinking of Stormcloak's faceor the visage of sneering, sarcastic Hcarla Bellwindand closed his eyes. The scorched smell of overcooked flesh hung sickeningly in the air. Kalassyn knew it would be a very long time before he'd want to eat bacon again.
  He opened his eyes and drew himself up. Men were looking at him. There was anger in some faces and anxiousness in others. Something remained to be done. Something they were waiting for.
  He stepped forward, free of the helping hands. "Get me my robes," he said hoarsely, without looking at the guards behind him. "The burned ones, all the scraps you can find."
  He waited in the cool night breeze until a black form moved in front of him. "Here, Lord."
  He angrily waved a torch nearer and with eager fingers probed the sorry scraps held out to him. Ah, there! He plucked out the brass-and-horn purse by its chain. The purse was ruined, twisted and scarred with the heat, but perhaps within all was well. He snatched out a certain ball wrapped in waxed paper, stepped past the guard, and faced the tree.
  "Tell those men to stand back," he snarled, fighting down the fit of coughing brought on by raising his voice. Without pause he plunged into the hissed words and quick gestures of a spell.
  Men were still scrambling back when his fireball lit the night with fresh flames. With a crackle and roar the entire tree went up, blazing and black from end to end. Then, like a tired warrior who takes an arrow in the throat, it toppled slowly, still blazing, against the tree beside it. The guard tree.
  "Oh, gods be cursed!" Kalassyn snarled weakly. He turned hastily back to the guard, fingers clawing through what was left of his components pouch. He found what he needed, and a sudden blast of ice struck the trees, the ground, and the air around with a hissing like the sound of a hundred wounded dragons. Smoke billowed up, tree limbs creaked, and branches broke off and fell to earth.
  Kalassyn watched them for a moment and then matched their fall. The ground, when it rose up to hit him, was surprisingly gentle.
  * * * * *
  The Sword's moustache and beard were smoldering, stubby smudges. The man who spoke to him took care not to let his gaze rest on them for more than an instant.
  "What now, sir?"
  The Sword bared his teeth in helpless fury and said, "Take the other end of this wizard and help me carry his useless carcass down to the barracks. The others can follow us. I want the four in best shape to sit in benches across the track, facing up this way to guard against anyone mad enough to come through the gate and powerful enough to survive the attempt. Spread the word and we'll flee together."
  In the space of four breaths the dell was empty of the living. Smoke curled and drifted for a time, and the burned tree shifted once and lost a few more branches. Through it all, the amber oval of light glowed and pulsed in patient silence.
  * * * * *
  "Your report is incomplete," Nordryn said coldly. "Foes deadly enough to slay a mage of Mrinden's power, hurl Kalassyn into the very jaws of death, and fell almost all of your commandand you turn tail from the field and flee back here, not bothering to even look for them? Tell me, Sword, however do you expect to live a single night through? If you were that lax in Zhentil Keep, you'd have the bed stolen from under you and wake up as you were falling to the floor, as someone put his blade in your throat to slit it!"
  The Sword just looked at him, two eyes of cold, weary death staring hard out of a face blackened and burned beyond easy recognition. "I didn't see you there, spell-hurler," he said deliberately. "Lacking a conscious commander, I followed the last orders I was given, which wisely took me to you. I now submit myself to your orders."
  The two men stared at each other in silence for a long breath. The one in fine robes moved first, shifting back a pace.
  The Sword drew himself up in his scorched armor, put a hand on the hilt of his sword, and added with the same slow, cold deliberation, "I trust, Lord, that your orders will be wiser than those Mrinden gave. He took us all into death we could not fight or avoid."
  Nordryn's hand went to his belt, closing over a wand that was sheathed there. "And if I did the same," he almost whispered, "your task would be to obey me, without question or pause. Remember that." Their eyes met, coldly and steadily, like blades crossed and locked by straining men who sought each other's death.
  "Aye, Lord, we will." The Sword's voice was cold and expressionless. "We will."
  Nordryn held his eyes a moment longer before turning away and raising his voice. "Hear my will, then. All still able to walk will wear and wield what they can, and assemble without delay in the road. I want each to carry two quarrel quivers and two crossbows, one loaded. We march to the gate. There we form a ring, under cover, and each man is to load his second bow and keep both ready. At my order, fire at any target I name. Expect an attack through the gate."
  He walked two paces and turned back to the room of silent men. "I've sent one of the message boys to the castle. If Lord Longspear pleases, he'll send healing. I'm coming with you."
  He turned away again and walked on.
  Behind him, one of the men muttered, "Tymora willing, let him be more bloody use than the last mages we had with us."
  "He could hardly be less," another voice agreed.
  "It's as well," a third voice cut in from afar. "His life may depend on it."
  "Enough," the Sword boomed, silently indicating the mage's back, reminding them that he could hear every word. Grim smiles answered him; they'd meant him to.
  Unseen, Nordryn smiled at the wall ahead and went on his way. Warriors were like cattle. They died in head-high piles when you needed them to. They ate and drank too much but could be useful the rest of the time, if you knew how to treat them. Like dogs, they needed proper handling. He showed his teeth to the wall again and continued on into the darkness.
  "Mages who walk in darkness," went the old saying, "cloak themselves in it and think themselves stronguntil the day it swallows them, and they come not out again." Nordryn remembered the saying wryly until memory told him who'd first said it: the Great Enemy, Elminster of Shadowdale.
  Shaking his head and feeling anger building inside him againa warmth in his chest rising into his throatNordryn went in search of a door that locked and a chamber pot beyond it. All goals in life should be so simple.
  * * * * *
  "The gods alone know where they are by now," Storm said quietly. "I think Elminster went west, but he could have a dozen or more gates nearby he's never told anyone about."
  "A cheery thought," Jhessail observed sardonically. "Shall I tell Mourngrym to revise our plans for defending the dale to include a dozen or more unknown, invisible backsides that invading armies may rush through?"
  "Easy, wench," Lhaeo told her gruffly. "Have some more firequench." He pushed one of the pair of decanters of ruby-red liqueur across the table. Storm made a silent grab for the bottle as it moved away from her, and was rewarded with a raised eyebrow from Jhessail. She returned it, with interest.
  "Ladies, ladies," Lhaeo sighed, shifting his feet down from atop the table. "Must you spit and snarl like rival kittens?"
  Jhessail shrugged. "It's what we've always done before," she observed with impish serenity.
  Storm chuckled. A breath later, the others joined her, but the mirth in Storm's kitchen broke off abruptly as a bat as large and black as a small night-cloak flapped heavily in through the open doorway. It circled low over the table and seemed to twist and writhe in the air in front of the fireplace.
  An instant later, the bat had become a tall, gaunt woman in a tattered black gown. Her hair and eyes danced wildly, and a fierce pride leapt in her face as she glided toward them.
  "Sister," Storm greeted her with a welcoming smile. "Will you take some firequench with us?"
  The Simbul nodded, sighed, and shivered all over like a cat after a fright. "Perhaps later," she said, taking a seat at the table, "after I try to learn what we both want to know."
  "What all of us want to know," Storm replied quietly. "I've sent two good men out after them. Two who harp." Across the room, the strings of her harp quivered by themselves for a moment, singing faintly.
  The Simbul looked around, not smiling. She nodded to Jhessail and Lhaeo, then bent her head and began whispering words of Art.
  A heavy tension grew in the room like dark green smoke, and all the candle flames shrank to steady, watching pinpoints. The Simbul sat at the center of her gathered power, dark and unmoving, and the tension rose to an almost audible roar.
  Her shoulders shook, she gasped, and the candle flames leapt and flickered again. The room was somehow brighter. And yet, Lhaeo thought, looking at the Simbul's forlorn and ravaged face, it seemed no safer or warmer.
  The Witch-Queen of Aglarond said simply, "I'll need your help, all of you. Join hands with me and I'll try again."
  Without hesitation they leaned forward around the table, the decanters standing like frozen red flames between them. The Simbul closed her eyes, shuddered again, and began to gather her will. As before, the room seemed to grow dim. "Think," she muttered, "of Sharantyr. Picture her face, her voice, what she looks like when she moves. We must focus on her, for Elminster is cloaked to all seeking magic."
  Obediently they thought of the lady Knight. Storm's eyes were closed, her face calm. Lhaeo and Jhessail both frowned, their faces creased in concentration. This time, linked to the Simbul, they could feel her drawing in her power, feeding on their thoughts, emotions, and yearnings.
  Power swirled around the kitchen. Then the Simbul hurled her questing, searching thought out a long way. She fell, like a fisher's hook plunging into dark waters, somewhere into a void of seeking where those linked to her could not follow.
  After a long, tense silence of tight breathing and gathering weariness, the Simbul suddenly shook herself like a dog coming up out of water and said brusquely, "We need more. The Art twisted wild. Sylune ... please?"
  Two pairs of wondering eyes saw Storm's fingers and the Simbul's separate where they had been linked. Out of empty, smoky air between them, two slim, faintly glowing hands seemed to grow, gaining substance in ghostly silence. Each of these hands clasped a living one. A gentle whisper said, "I am here. Try now, sister."
  Lhaeo and Jhessail stared at the half-seen, ghostly figure between Storm and the Simbul. Then they exchanged one quick glance and, as one, closed their eyes and threw themselves again into seeking Sharantyr.
  An eternity passed. The candles burned lower. They breathed as one, low and deep. Toril, with awesome slowness, rolled steadily beneath them.
  Then someone whimpered, and the circle was broken.
  Storm held only empty air, and the Simbul fell heavily facedown on the table, upsetting one of the decanters.
  "Storm?" Lhaeo asked anxiously, half rising. "Is she?"
  "Exhausted," the Bard of Shadowdale said faintly, leaning back in her chair. "As am I. It's a magic few knowthankfully, or there'd be mindless mages across half of Faerun in short order."
  Jhessail rescued the fallen decanter and silently held it out to Storm. The bard stared at it dully for a breath or two, then deliberately grasped it, unstoppered it, and took a long pull. When she replaced the stopper and handed the bottle back, it was almost empty.
  "Storm," Lhaeo asked quietly, his voice almost steady, "was that?"
  "Our sister Sylune," Storm answered as quietly. "Yes, and what we tried did more harm to her than to either of us." She turned dark eyes up to theirs and added, "So now you know. Take up the weight of another secret, for the good of the dale."
  Two intent faces nodded silently.
  Then the Simbul stirred and said into the table, "Is any of that firequench swill left?"
  After the laughter had died away, Lhaeo dared to lay tender hands on perhaps the most powerful sorceress alive in Faerun, raising her and wiping her sweat-soaked brow. The Simbul smiled silent thanks up at him and said, "Well, you know we failed. Know more; there's worse news."
  Lhaeo and Jhessail both looked at her sharply. "Tell," Elminster's scribe bade her simply.
  "All Art in the Realms is going rogue," the Simbul answered, "for all who wield it, everywhere. We can unleash it, but our control slips and fades, and most of the time is lacking entirely. Magic has gone wild, and we can do nothing, it seems, to stop that. El and Shar are truly beyond our reach and aid."
  Dread came and went on her white face, and she reached thoughtfully for the decanter again. "Across Faerun," she added softly but firmly, "not a single mage, archmage, or hedge-wizard can rely on spells anymore."
  Lhaeo and Jhessail exchanged looks and then spoke together, framing the same question as one. "In the name of all the gods, why?"
  Storm answered softly, eyes on the flame of the nearest candle. "That's just why. All the gods have been cast down into the Realms to contend among us, struggling and striving as we do. With Mystra gone, there's none to control magic. It's why Elminster's gone away."
  "Cast down?" Lhaeo almost whispered. "By whom? Who has such power?"
  Storm spread her hands. "In the oldest writings he was called the Overgod. Nowadays, to those who know of him at all, he is the 'One Who Is Hidden.'" She smiled. "If you meet him, you might ask his truename and aims. There are a lot of souls, mortal and divine alike, who'd like to know."
  Jhessail drew a deep, ragged breath and smiled. "I'll get straight to work on it," she jested, and shook her head in rueful disbelief. Her hands trembled as they reached for the second decanter. When she put it down, it held far less than when she had taken it up.
  Storm shook her head. "Easy, lass," she murmured, "or we'll have to carry you back to the tower."
  Jhessail crooked an eyebrow. "Who, wench," she said readily, "will be carrying whom?"
  Lhaeo sighed and rose. "Come, Jhess," he said. "Elminster and Sharantyr are on their own, and we've done enough harm this night. Storm needs her sleep, even if we do not."
  Storm thanked the scribe with her eyes. Jhessail read that look and blew them all a kiss before taking Lhaeo's arm and slipping swiftly out into the night.
  A long time passed. As the candles died, one by one, the two sisters sat at the table unmoving, eyes far away.
  At last Storm moved unwilling lips. "Did you see or feel anything when you reached for Shar? Anything at all?"
  "No," the Simbul said shortly, staring down at her empty hands. "Nothing. I was like the worst apprentice I've ever hadalone, wavering, helpless in the dark."
  "I saw three things, sister," came the eerie voice they had feared not to hear again. "Fire and tears and stars, overhead it seemed, though they were all mixed together. Our stars."
  Storm raised her head, and there were tears in her eyes. "Sylune," she said softly, "my thanks. They're not dead, then."
  "Yet," came the voice of Sylune's ghost dryly. "Yet."
  * * * * *
  It was dark in Dagger Wood, save for an upright oval of amber light, an unsleeping eye staring into the night. Overhead, glittering stars watched what the eye's glow illuminated: two blades that glimmered, leapt, and sang as they dealt death.
  The two men who held the blades said nothing as they danced and ducked. Both knew they must keep the seven black-armored guardswell, only three guards nowfrom fleeing through the oval radiance to raise the alarm.
  The men in full armor were strong, hardened veterans, efficient experts at dealing death with cold steel by night or day, in alleys or high streets, in open battle or in crowds.
  The two men in dusty leathers, however, were Harpers and men who'd just spent some goodly time crossing blades with Storm Silverhand. They knew who'd win this battle.
  As frantic moments passed, their opponents came to know it too, with the cold, sinking certainty of death. The Harpers caught each other's eyes once, in the skirling dance of steel, and laughed together. A few panting breaths later it was over.
  Belkram and Itharr faced each other across the black-clad fallen, looked all about with trained wariness, and nodded to each other, signaling that they were both unharmed. Then they turned together in silence to look at the flickering, man-high oval of light. It glowed silently back at them, waiting.
  Belkram's eyes descended to a corpse that lay in front of the gate. He bent forward. "What's this?"
  "Harper signs?"
  "Aye." He leaned closer get a better look at the slashes on the corpse's leather tunic. " 'Trap ahead,' it says. 'Keep low.' " Belkram hefted his bloodstained blade. "Well? Ready?"
  Itharr chuckled, and stroked the wispy beginnings of a moustache in a gesture Belkram had seen before. "Remember, adventure is where you find it," he replied, waving with his own blade at the light to indicate that Belkram should go first.
  "Why, thank you," Belkram replied in exaggerated, courtly tones, and stepped through, keeping low.

7
A Night of Murdered Peace, and After

  Beyond the gate, all was dark and silent. Grass whispered underfoot, and there were trees aheadand a strong smell of recent wood smoke. Belkram took a pace forward, then crouched and leapt warily aside, out of the light. Itharr came through, saw Belkram's move, and turned toward the other side of the gate to do the same.
  Then both Harpers heard the unmistakable deep tung of a crossbow firing. Itharr whipped around to follow Belkram and dived frantically to the ground. The first bolt whistled past his head as he fell. Then the night was full of hissing death, biting at them as they rolled, leapt, and ran to the left toward the trees.
  A bolt from right in front of them came leaping out of the night. Itharr twisted desperately aside. The missile drew a line of red fire across his chest and shoulder, and was gone. Itharr snarled out his pain as he raced on. More quarrels sought his life, whirring past like angry wasps. He heard them clattering on rocks off to his left, and shot a glance that way. A mountain rose up beside them, and then he was following Belkram along its base, sprinting into the concealing trees.
  A short scream ahead told him Belkram had opened a way through at least one defender. Itharr ran faster. To think he'd once dreamed of glorious adventures as a Harper, dreams that involved (between parties with beauteous women) charging castles single-handed! Dreams where no arrows ever struck hi
  Itharr grunted as a crossbow bolt struck him in the shoulder, picking him off his feet and hurling him a pace or two toward the rocks with the force of its flight.
  He landed hard on his good arm, sprang upspit on the pain; his life depended on getting up!and ran on, hoping he'd not drop his sword from the hand he could no longer feel.
  * * * * *
  "After them!" Nordryn snarled. At the Sword's dubious look he almost shrieked his next words, so great was his fury. "Get them! They can't use any magic. I've cloaked them with a spell of my own! Go on!"
  Around him, Wolves drew blades, but they looked to the Sword for orders, not him. The Sword looked at him again, long and coldly, then nodded his head at the fleeing men.
  With a shout and a breath of creaking leather and flashing steel, the Wolves boiled up out of the trees and were gone.
  Nordryn looked at the Sword, eyes hot. "I'll remember this," he spat.
  The veteran swordsman looked back at him steadily, his eyes the same hue as the raised tip of his drawn sword. "See that you do," he replied softly.
  * * * * *
  "Where are we, d'you think?" Itharr panted as they raced along.
  Belkram turned at the sound of his friend's voice. "Are you hurt?" He reached out a hand, swinging his fellow Harper around sharply.
  The bolt protruding from Itharr's shoulder struck a nearby branch; he made a choked sound and stumbled back. Belkram's searching hands caught him, located the bolt, and felt the shoulder it was buried in.
  Itharr tried to cough and whimper at the same time, and failed. He settled for making another little choking noise and fell down.
  Belkram sighed, laid down his blade, and tore out the bolt in one swift, hard jerk. Itharr shook once under his hands and lay still.
  The taller Harper thought for a moment, then rose from his wounded friend and ran lightly back the way they'd come, melting into the cloaking gloom of a tree as a warrior trotted cautiously forward, glancing around in the dim night.
  The woods were full of armed Wolves cautiously advancing in the darkness. The lives of two very outnumbered Harpers now depended on stealth and silence, so Belkram reached out with a long arm, slapped the man across the mouth from behind, and jerked hard. The man's head twisted sharply, and Belkram put all his strength into pulling. There was a brief crunching noise ... and the man became limp and very heavy.
  Belkram staggered, lowering the warrior as quietly as possible. A sudden crackling disturbance and a triumphant yell erupted nearby. Steel rang, men cursed, and there was a groan of pain.
  "You fool," someone said weakly. "Can't you tell?" The words ended in a gasp, followed by the heavy crash of a man falling heavily and helplessly through dead-wood and living tanglethorns.
  Belkram slipped cautiously back toward Itharr, only to hear branches whip and crackle close behind. He spun, blade up, and was almost knocked over by someone blundering past.
  The ranger thrust with his steel and felt it turn aside on armor. His onrushing target gave a surprised yell and turned. Belkram saw a momentary flash of teeth in the darkness, put his sword tip there, and drove his blade in hard. The man crumpled and fell without uttering another sound.
  This time the landing was not quiet, and Belkram hastened away. This game of cat and mouse was all too apt to turn against them swiftly, if these warriors brought torches or mage-conjured light.
  He couldn't answer Itharr's question; he had no idea where they were. Perhaps if he could get safely out from under the trees long enough to get a good look at the stars . . . Well, they were somewhere not too different in climate from Shadowdale. Somewhere with mountains. Somewhere with at least one Harperand, he hoped, Elminsternearby.
  In front of him, he saw the flash of steel rising from the ground. He danced to a halt and hissed, "Itharr?"
  "The same," came the weak reply. "Did you have to be soagghhh! I'm bleeding all over everything."
  "I've been rather busy," Belkram whispered carefully. "Use your blade as a crutch or put it away and lean on me, and with Tymora's kiss we'll get out of here!"
  Itharr opted for the latter, and they hurried on together as quietly as possible. Steel still rang around them from time to time. Here and there in the night-cloaked woods, men crashed through brush and fell into unseen holes and over the trunks of fallen trees.
  "A fine night out they're having," Itharr gasped, after awhile. "Could we stop for a breath or two?"
  "Aye," Belkram murmured into his ear. "How d'you feel?"
  "Fresh and fine," Itharr said sarcastically. "The night is young, brave sir, and all that." He sat down heavily on a tree stump, which promptly collapsed in a damp ruin of fungus and punky wood, dumping him onto the ground. He sighed.
  That mournful sound made a few sputters of mirth escape Belkram. The taller Harper shook for a few moments and then leaned near, still chuckling. "I'd like to try to get back to that clearing. We should be able to see the gate's light. We could go around it, staying in the trees, and look for paths and such. These guards must have a barracks somewhere, where we can get food and mayhap even healing quaffs, for your shoulder. I was in Luskan, once. The idiots there had a barracks with a flat, unguarded roof. We rested above them, all the while they turned the city inside out for us, and hid most of their gear while they were out tramping around."
  "Very nice," Itharr said. "Now help me up."
  They went into the night together. Belkram had to use his sword only twice before they saw the amber light again.
  "Now what, sir?" The Sword might have been a chamber servant back in Zhentil Keep.
  Nordryn shrugged. "Wait here. Our duty is still to guard the gate while the others seek out these intruders."
  The Sword nodded. "As you command," he said expressionlessly. Nordryn looked at him and then all around and found, with sinking fear, that the two of them stood alone by the gate. Their men were all blundering about in the woods. A sudden outbreak of shouting came from the trees, followed by a scream that ended in a dying wail.
  "Ah," Nordryn said with satisfaction. "They've got one, at least."
  The Sword raised an eyebrow. "Someone died, aye. In the trees, Lord, it could be one of us killing another just as easily as those we're after. You can't tell.. . until it's too late."
  Nordryn looked at him. "Oh, no?" he scoffed. "Are you telling me Zhentilar soldiers can fight only in the full light of day?"
  The Sword looked back at him, and shrugged. "No," he said briefly. "At night, though, we seldom know whom we're killing."
  Nordryn stepped back hastily, eyeing the gleaming sword between them.
  "What happens if you slay one of... of our men?"
  The Sword shrugged again. "As I said," he drawled mildly, "by then, it's too late."
  Nordryn backed two paces farther from the blade.
  * * * * *
  "A wizard?" Itharr breathed, staring into the night.
  Belkram nodded. "No doubt. We go wide to the left now, down slope a bit. I see lights, so there'll be a track we can follow."
  Itharr grunted. "Good. I've lost more blood than I thought I had in me."
  Belkram sighed. "Hold up a breath or two longer," he said. "It would have to be your sword arm."
  Itharr growled agreement deep in his throat. "Thanks to Storm," he said, "I can at least use a blade properly with my left hand. Next time, run to the right, will you?"
  Belkram made a little bow. "As you wish, Lord."
  Itharr decided it was his turn to sigh. Again.
  * * * * *
  Thalmond shifted his weight off the stool experimentally and winced. The burned leg shrieked at him. He unbuckled his sword and leaned on it, scabbard and all, hopping awkwardly across the guardroom. Aye, it would serve.
  Someone groaned from one of the beds. Thalmond hesitated, then turned and went out. None of the others could walk unaided. If he hurried, he would not be seen.
  He'd fought for Black Master Manshoon more years than most of these lads had been alive, and knew a thing or two about standing orders. What he sought had to be somewhere in the meeting room.
  He hopped along as fast as he could and saw no one on the way. Shouldering the door open, he leaned against the wall for support and waved a seeking arm along it. Metal dangles clinked; he'd found the cord that ran up to the lamp. He lowered the lamp and felt at his belt for his flint.
  With the skill of long practice, he struck the stone a glancing dagger blow that showered sparks where he needed them. Six careful breaths later he was easing the door closed and turning back to a room lit by the warm glow of the hanging oil lamp. The object he sought would be somewhere within reach of this lamp, where it could readily be found in the darkness by feel. Not under the chairs or tables, for every blade who grew bored was apt to run his fingers along the edges of his seat or rub itching hands or forearms on the underside of the table edge, and might discover what Thalmond now sought.
  No, it was somewherehere? He stared at the map on the wall and carefully pulled at its edge. Nothing. He pushed. No. He slid the map carefully to the right and it movedthree finger-widths, no more.
  There! In the revealed niche, two metal vials hung one above the other by leather thongs. Thank Tymora for her good favor. Even priests of Bane used the warrior symbols for healing! He'd just have a little, enough to stop this Bane-blasted burning in his leg.
  Thalmond plucked the sword-rag from his beltif he never actually touched the vial, no clever magic could tell he'd been herewrapped the cloth around his hand, and reached out.
  A gentle voice, very close by his ear, said, "My thanks, and farewell. Greet Tempus for me, old warrior." The steel at his throat was very cold. Thalmond had only a little time to feel surprised, time to tell himself that at last he knew what death would feel like, time to grow just a little angry that he'd heard no one behind him . .. and then, no time at all.
  * * * * *
  "Did you have to set the place alight with them all inside?" Itharr whispered, face white in the darkness.
  Men rushed past them, shouting. Belkram raised the loaded crossbow carefully on his knee and whispered back grimly, "I had to kill one old warrior to get these. He flung up his hand as he fell, and by Tymora's favor broke the lamp that hung just above. Flaming oil everywhere! I scarce got out in time. Have you finished that yet?"
  "Aye," Itharr said in the sleepy voice of one who has fought pain for a long time, or pushed too far and done too much and now finds ease.
  "Stay awake!" Belkram said sharply. "Is one going to be enough?"
  But he'd spoken too sharply. One of the running figures turned its head and took two steps toward them, sword raised. The Harpers lay still.
  The man came on, peering into the shadows. "Who's? Hold!"
  The crossbow kicked and death hissed into the Wolf's throat. He fell on his side, convulsed, and lay still, one hand raised in a claw that would never close.
  "I'm getting a little weary of all this bloodshed," Itharr said quietly. His voice was stronger.
  Belkram nodded. "I'm not overfond of it, either, but a guard down is one less sword to hunt us. You sound better."
  "I feel better," Itharr said, putting the second vial carefully into his belt pouch. "We're too close," he added, watching the flames leap higher. "We'll be well lit, soon."
  "Aye," Belkram agreed, and they scrambled back into the trees. The dell, with its gate, was just a little way beyond.
  Itharr looked toward it and then back at Belkram questioningly.
  His friend shrugged. "We've not found Elminster, and I know he came here. I can feel it."
  Itharr nodded. "Aye," he agreed, "and these look like Zhent Blackhelms to me, from what little we've seen."
  Belkram nodded. "Any work we can do against them is well done, whenever we get a chance."
  "Whither, then?"
  Belkram tossed the crossbow away and stared into the night for a moment. "Do you see mountains beyond?" he asked.
  Itharr held up a hand to shield against the light of the leaping flames and said, "Aye. Not too far off, either."
  Belkram nodded. "Come day, they'll be searching these woods for our our trail. The rocks this side are the natural place to hide, and for them to look. Why not take ourselves across to those, over there?"
  "And spare ourselves much of the hunters' attention?" Itharr asked. "I like it. Let's use the road, and look for a stream to turn aside from it. Now, before the flames bring everyone out to watch."
  Belkram nodded, and they hurried around the back of the blazing building, flitting like shadows from tree to tree. Below them, houses and shopsand beyond, a smallish stone castlerose out of the night.
  "Where are we, then?"
  "A mountain pass?"
  "Aye." Itharr nodded slowly. "If there's a cart road through the lowest part, there, I'd say yes."
  "But where?" Belkram obviously did not recognize their surroundings.
  Itharr yawned. "I'll think about it," he promised, "when we're safely hidden."
  The two Harpers drifted into the night, seeking their stream.
  * * * * *
  "Bane curse us all," Nordryn gasped, too astonished for anger. "The barracks!"
  "Now do you see," the Sword said in a voice of cold steel, "why I ordered the men to fall back there to make their stand? This is your doing, softskull!"
  Nordryn stared at him, eyes glittering. "You would speak to me so?"
  "Aye. Be glad I do not cut you down where you stand, mage. I'd be doing High Lord Manshoon a favor, if this is any example of the glorious bungling you'll inflict on his plans in times to come." He barked short, mirthless laughter. "I'd be doing you a favor, come to that, saving you from Manshoon!"
  Nordryn stepped back a pace, raising his hand. The officer's sword slid out to float menacingly just above it, preventing the wizard from gesturing to unleash a spell.
  "Don't," the Sword suggested in soft, heavy tones of menace.
  Nordryn stepped away again, a brittle smile visible on his face where the leaping flames lit it. "What if I told Stormcloak that the foray into the woods was your plan?"
  The Sword's eyes were bleak. "You'd be digging your own grave, wizard. Even if all the men who heard you giving orders were dead, and their bodies ruined past what dark magic can recall or speak to, there's this." He shook the gauntlet off his free hand and raised his fingers until Nordryn could see the heavy ring that glinted upon the middle one. "Look well," the soldier suggested.
  The wizard felt cold fear creeping down his spine. He knew all too well what that sigil meant: Manshoon. This cold-eyed soldier was one of the High Lord's personal agents. He swallowed and turned abruptly away to hide the fear he knew was showing on his facefear, and something else. The man had to die before Manshoon heard of this or Nordryn Spellbinder's career would be short and painful ... or long, cold, and frustrating, posted to all the worst places, with new magic forever denied to him, and under the constant, cruel eye of some watcher appointed by the High Lord.
  "Don't think of arranging my death," came the Sword's cold voice from behind him. "Lord Manshoon always probes such things very carefullyby speaking to the deceased, if necessary. He knows my worth; you'd probably have to face me again. If Manshoon got tired of raising me, you'd pay the price, never doubt it. You'd make an adequate walking dead man, I suppose."
  Nordryn turned and walked toward the flames, wondering which of the careers he'd just seen so bleakly would be worse. The flames roared and crackled, warming his face even from this distance, and he just couldn't decide.
  * * * * *
  Sharantyr came awake slowly, enfolded in unexpected warmth. She opened her eyes and looked around hurriedly, coming up to one elbow and feeling for her sword.
  During the night, the Old Mage had somehow wrapped his bony arms around her without wakening her. That simply shouldn't have happened, but Sharantyr did not move away when that familiar, wild-bearded visage smiled at her, only inches away.
  "Fair morn, Lady," Elminster said with courtly formality and leaned forward with smooth speed to kiss the end of her nose.
  Sharantyr blinked. Some sorceresses would die, or kill, or whatever, to trade places with her, no doubt. His beard tickled like something between a scurrying centipede or an amorous cat. After a few breaths, she remembered to smile in reply.
  Elminster chuckled. "Up, lass," he said. The mists were rolling away down through the trees as they rose and stretched to ease the stiffness that comes from sleeping in the open on rocky ground. "I fear I neglected to provide us breakfast, but I remain both open to suggestions and thy humble servant."
  Sharantyr shook her head incredulously and pecked him on the cheek, more to shut him up than anything else. Ye gods, what had she gotten herself into now?
  * * * * *
  The day grew both warm and splendidly clear. The ranger and the wizard spent the morning sitting in the shrubbery at the trees' edge, watching black-armored gate guards working the road into the High Dale. Eastkeep rose small but grim at the warriors' backs, and they were most efficient.
  Sharantyr didn't know the place and said so, but Elminster told her grandly that he knew it and would recognize it for her. Sharantyr rolled her eyes, not for the first time. Their stomachs chose that romantic moment to growl together.
  The gate guards went steadily about their work, extracting passage tolls from all travelers coming into the dale from the east, inspecting their goods and gear, and turning back all wizards. Traffic leaving the dale from the west was given only a cursory search. These well-armed guards expected no trouble from that front.
  There was a stir, once, as the guards suddenly swarmed over the wagon of a fat merchant. A shout brought six more guards with drawn swords out of the little shanty that served them as a duty shelter. The newcomers surrounded the merchant with a ring of sword tips at his throat while the search went on.
  Shortly, two stout guards clambered triumphantly down from the wagon, each showing something to the officer in charge. He nodded and waved his head; the two men trotted away to the guard hut.
  "Their commanderhave I seen that harness before?" Sharantyr asked.
  Elminster nodded. "No doubt. That's a Sword, and these are Zhentilar warriors or I'll miss my breakfast."
  Sharantyr grinned. "They're Zhents, then." As they watched, one of the guards returned with a scrap of parchment, which he handed to the red-faced merchant. The wagon and its occupant were brusquely ordered on with imperious waves of naked swords. The wagon rumbled away, the merchant shaking his head.
  Sharantyr's eyes narrowed. "What's going on? They took something from him, aye, but what?"
  Elminster assumed the pedantic air of the lofty scholar addressing a pupil too dense to be worth the time teaching takes. "Regard ye," he said in measured tones, "yon hut. 'Tis home to a mageling, I doubt me not. He has examined the items they took from the merchant and pronounced them magical. They hold these objects, returning to the unfortunate former owner a receipt. No doubt he has to inform them of the time and place of his leaving the dale, and they'll return his baubles to himthat is, if some wizard in authority here doesn't deem them too useful."
  Sharantyr looked at him. "You're sure?"
  Elminster affected to take mighty offense, blinking and clucking, drawing his nose high into the air, rolling his eyes fiercely, and saying, "Well!"
  Sharantyr giggled.
  "Come, lass," Elminster said with injured dignity, rising out of the bushes like a Calishite vizier making a stately palace entrance on a platform rising out of an underground room. "I want my breakfast."
  Without pause or any attempt at concealment, he strode through the long grass, still wet with dew, toward the guards on the road.
  Rolling her eyes, Sharantyr wondered again how she'd gotten herself into all this. It's what comes of feeling sorry for mages, she concluded. Lunacy if ever there were crazed thoughts. She drew her blade, held it low behind her to keep it hidden as much as possible, and followed.

8
Mysterious Attacks and Lawless Outrages

  Death calls, it's said, on everyone. Some early, some later. Most find themselves not ready when the ghostly horn soundswith much left to do and much more regretted. A lucky few die content, or unawares. A haunted handful of beings find death only long after they've desired its arrival. This includes most so-called "immortals." The bony arms of doom also enfold those who seek to cheat death by magical means, or have undeath or an undying curse thrust upon them.
  The arms of death also extend to claim those who bear Mystra's burden. Of these Chosen Ones, some welcome death sooner than others. All render to the living attentive service, examples of life at its most splendid and active, and a certain silence, keeping secret the despair and weariness that long life brings.
  And so it was that the late morning sun found Elminster, the archmage without any spells, eagerly eyeing the guards he'd been watching all morn. He'd made four long strides toward them, the unconcerned beginning of a direct attack, when the lady ranger who had come to keep him from harm caught up to him and put a firm hand on his shoulder.
  He stopped and looked around questioningly.
  Sharantyr looked back at himat his white hair, thin limbs, and alert, intent faceand shook her head. "Elminster," she asked quietly, "when you do foolish, reckless thingslike attacking yon sentinels, with a fortress at their backs and at least four things of magic we've seen them seize with our own eyesaren't you ever afraid of death?"
  Elminster looked at her for a long moment and said dryly, "Death has often come calling on me, but so far I've always been out, ye see."
  And with those impish words he slipped from her grip and marched straight out of the trees toward the waiting Wolves. Sun glinted on black helms as they turned his way.
  With a sinking heart, Sharantyr sighed, slowly raised her sword, and followed.
  * * * * *
  "Hold, old man!" The Oversword of the guard spoke impatiently, scarcely looking at the old man in robes. His attention was bent on a fat Sembian merchant who was sweating with fear. The many rings gleaming on his pudgy white fingers ran through the air like a starving fisherman combs the depths of an empty net. The merchant was almost gabbling as he assured the nine stone-faced guards that his wines were the best, oh, yes, only the best, why everyone said so, just ask at the Black Stag in Selgor, well, perhaps notnay, speak to the merchant Lissel, of nearby Daerlun, and he'd vouch for...
  At about that time, the Oversword realized the gaunt old man with the overlong white beard had not halted and was proceeding with confident, unhurried steps toward the guard hut. He spun around, reaching for his sword.
  "Old man," he barked, "hold!"
  The gaunt figure in tattered robes continued on its way, beard flapping.
  The Oversword caught up in three quick strides, ignoring grins that had begun to appear on the faces of his men, and jerked the old man roughly around.
  Cool blue-gray eyes regarded him. "Yes?" a mild voice inquired, as if humoring a rude child.
  The Oversword snarled and said fiercely, "Never ignore orders in the High Dale, old man, if you would live."
  Slow eyebrows rose. "What orders?"
  "I told you to hold, whitebeard, and I meant it! I'll see to you when I'm done here, and I care nothing for your haste or importance!"
  "Oh. I see," Elminster said courteously. "I misunderstood ye."
  The Oversword looked him up and down coldly. "My words were quite clear," he said slowly and dangerously. "What was your problem?"
  "Ye kept saying 'old man,'" Elminster told him. "I assumed ye were speaking to someone else. I'm not oldnot yet, by the sun, though if ye waste much more of my morning I may come to be." He turned and continued on his way.
  The Oversword snarled again and gestured. Drawn swords rose to bar Elminster's way on all sides.
  Elminster turned about. "Yes?" he asked mildly.
  "Sirs!" Sharantyr's voice came urgently from behind them. "Please forgive my fa"
  "That will be enough, girl," Elminster told her sharply. "How can ye learn, if ye persist in speaking out of thy place? Be ashamed. And better, be silent."
  He turned to face the Oversword. "My daughter," he explained apologetically. "She's not been out of Zhentil Keep before and is overexcited."
  The Oversword's eyebrows drew together in a wary frown. "Zhentil Keep?"
  "Aye. I was speaking with a friend there, Lord Manshoon, and as I was passing this way, he asked me to look in on a certain wizard for him. Toah, forgive medeliver a private message." He smiled. "While I appreciate your diligence, Oversword, I am in some haste. I was told that the one I sought would probably be here, either in yonder hut or in the keep beyond. May I?"
  Politely he turned his back, pushed aside two blades with the backs of his open hands, and went on. Without turning, he called back, "Come, lass!"
  Sharantyr bent her head and lowered her blade. "Yes, Father," she replied in tones of weary resignation. In wary silence the Wolves stood back to let them through.
  The Oversword noted that none of his men would meet his eyes. Good. He turned savagely back to the fat Sembian and curtly ordered his men to slit open the seams of everything, including every stitch of clothing the man was wearing.
  But somehow, he couldn't enjoy the fun that followed.
  * * * * *
  The fat man was making so much noise, wailing and cursing and calling on more gods than the Oversword had ever heard of, that it was a good while before they heard the disturbance from the guard hut: the sounds of shrieking and sobbing, and the frenzied cracks of a whip wielded with some strength. The guards did not react; they were clearly used to such sounds. One or two glanced casually back at the hut and saw the white-beard's daughter standing uncertainly near the curtain that hung across its open doorway. The guards shrugged and turned away.
  That all changed two instants later. The white-bearded man strolled calmly back out into the sun, smiling at his daughter. He seemed as startled as the Wolves when an agonized cry rang out from inside the hut.
  "Help! Cabalar! Dhondys! Aid, by Bane and Mystra both! Ohhh! She's killing me!"
  The Oversword paled, jerked out his sword, and snapped, "Sabras! Mykhalar! Stay on the road! Everyone else come with me!" He swept his arm toward the hut and charged. Six black-armored men hastened at his heels, blades flashing.
  The gaunt old man with the long white beard bent down and pulled something from his boot. As he rose, he threw off his tattered over-robes and charged to meet them.
  The old fellow was scrawny. The Oversword could see his ribs as he ran toward them, beard streaming back over his shoulder. He wore only dusty leather breeches, gray with age and shiny at the knees, and his boots. A wand flashed in his hand, and from it blue-white death lashed out twice to strike one of the Wolves, leaving the soldier staggering and groaning in pain.
  A wizard! And the crossbows were in the hut beyond him, by Bane's black heart! The Oversword looked over his shoulder and saw that Sabras and Mykhalar were already hastening to join him. He slowed, directing them with his blade, and watched his men race to meet the old man.
  The girl, too, was running now, and she had her blade out again. A trained warrior, by her looks; all trace of uncertainty and awkwardness was gone now.
  The old wizard must have some trickery ready. Why else charge alone against seven men in full armor?
  Abruptly, fear rising cold and ugly in his chest, the Oversword came to a stop. "Spread out!" he roared. " 'Ware a trap!"
  As if heeding him, the whitebeard skidded to a halt. His hand ducked to his boot, replacing the wand there and coming up with a little brass scepter that ended in a spherical cluster of wrought hands.
  The Oversword's heart sank. He'd confiscated that himself, early this morn, from a sharp-tongued, dark-eyed Sembian caravan guard-wizard. The scepter had fairly echoed with power in his hands. Inside the hut, Ildomyl had visibly paled and hastily set the thing aside.
  What it was, exactly, the Oversword knew not, but he knew enough to fear it. For the first time the thought that he might have to flee for his life or die here on the road, as highsun stole nearer to end the morn, came to him suddenly and chillingly. The Oversword paled and looked about.
  A surprising number of local folk had appeared up the road to watch. They stood silent, still as statues, gazing at the scene.
  The old man held the brass scepter and spoke a certain word, clear and echoing and unfamiliar. There was a flash of golden, metallic light. The charging Wolves, who were almost upon him, staggered suddenly back. They scattered helplessly, arms and blades flailing, propelled away by magical hands that shoved and grasped and flunghands as big as shields, each having three long fingers between two hooked thumbs.
  The old man's hands were empty now as he dove nimbly forward to take the feet out from under a Wolf.
  They crashed to the ground together, a magical hand spread out over the black-armored chest like some gigantic spider. The old man swarmed along the writhing warrior to snatch the sword from his hands.
  The Oversword saw the stolen steel descend into the helpless throat of its former owner an instant before the constraining hand melted away into the air from whence it had come. All the other hands also quietly faded, pulsed, and vanished.
  The old man stood calmly hefting the blade he'd seized. The Wolves recovered themselves, bellowed their fury, and came for him.
  Heart in her throat, Sharantyr ran as she'd never run before, knowing she would not arrive in time, or do much good if she did. There was only one of her, and these warriors looked trained, strong, and fit. The one Elminster had hurt with magic missiles was still on his feet, moving with less pain than before. Six Wolves came on with murder in their eyes, the Oversword bringing up the rear with a sudden, snarling charge.
  The armored forms closed in around the old man, and despite herself Sharantyr screamed. The sound brought a warrior around to face her. With desperate savagery, Sharantyr flailed away at him with her blade, hammering him so hard and fast that he had no time to do anything except fend her off.
  Beyond, Wolves roared and swords clashed. Sharantyr murmured a prayer to Tempus to aid the Old Mage as her own sword slid in under the edge of her opponent's helm and came back dark and wet.
  The man fell heavily, and Sharantyr sprang aside, peering desperately to try to learn Elminster's fate. Another Wolf was already running toward her. Despite that approaching danger, the lady ranger stood for an instant in amazement.
  Elminster was still on his feet amid all those armored giants. Steel flashed in his hand, and he was laughing. She shook her head, struck aside the blade reaching for her, and stared again.
  For a moment the image of the gaunt, sharp-tongued old man in tattered robes seemed to fall away, and she saw the impish, snake-quick youth he had been many long years ago.
  His eyes blazed. He dodged, lunged, and ducked under a reaching blade with the easy agility of youth. He laughed.
  Sharantyr watched him in amazement, while almost without thought or effort her blade found the throat of the Wolf who had charged her. She no longer saw the Old Mage, but a man strong and supple, with the defiant pride of youth. A man of power delighting in the fray, the Laughing Hero of the North spoken of in legends, greatest of the carefree blades in the alleys of Waterdeep, slayer of fell things, pranksterand fearless fighter, even when alone against a host.
  Elminster, half-naked and scrawny, whirled and leapt among the blades. Around him, the black-armored Wolves coughed or cried out and fell in their blood. Always there came that low laughter, except when Elminster rose up to bury his blade in the face of the Oversword of the guard and cried, "For the dale! Let there be freedom again for the High Dale!"
  When the last man fell, there was no sound from the watching men and women. Most of the village folk seemed to have emptied out of the huts and shanties beyond the keep. A score or more had gathered to watch, and in a few hands Sharantyr saw axes, pitchforks, and clubs. She looked down at the huddled black hulks, shook her head again, and walked toward the Old Mage.
  Elminster stood leaning on his blade, looking suddenly old again. He was panting, great shuddering breaths that shook his body, but none of the blood on him was his own. He looked at her with two eyes that were very blue, and managed a smile.
  "M-my robes, Shar," he gasped. "Old bones feel the cold an' all." Sharantyr embraced him, rubbed his shoulders briskly, and hurried to snatch up his robes from where they lay.
  The Old Mage dressed, throwing down the sword as if it were something diseased and foul. He shook his head.
  "That draws deep," he said, eyes distant. "It gets . . . harder every time."
  Sharantyr put an arm around his shoulders. "I'm still amazed," she said softly, "but shouldn't we be going? With all that noise, they must have been alerted at the keep."
  The folk of Eastkeep stood watching them, not speaking. Sharantyr saw awe in their eyes, and leaping hope, and a little fear. Elminster did not seem to see them at all as he adjusted his belt and shrugged his shoulders several times to settle his robes comfortably.
  In the stillness, they heard the faint sounds of weeping from the hut.
  Sharantyr looked at Elminster. "The wizard," she asked. "Did you?"
  The Old Mage shook his head and silently motioned her to follow him. Together they went to the hut, and the Old Mage drew the door curtain aside.
  Within was the stink of fear and sweat and death. A sobbing woman, cold gray manacles still about her wrists and ankles, swung a jewelled whip to rain blows down on a bloody, huddled form. The manacles and a wild look were all she wore. The chains that had held her dangled empty from a beam overhead.
  She looked up, saw Elminster, and managed a savage smile of gratitude. Then, deliberately, she turned and brought the whip hissing down again with all the strength of a blood-spattered arm, though it was clear that the meat she struck could no longer feel it.
  "Fly now, lady," Elminster bid her gently. "Flee before other wizards come to slay ye. Out, among the people, and throw both whip and keys into one of the streams as soon as ye can. Take nothing else or they'll know ye." Her dirty bare shoulders shrugged in reply, and he added, "Ye want to live, to see them all dead, don't ye?"
  The woman listened to that, still panting out her fury in great sobbing breaths. She abruptly turned and snatched up a ring of keys from the mage's now-empty chair. Her eyes met Elminster's in fierce, silent gratitude, then she was gone into the morning.
  Elminster turned eyes that had grown old again on Sharantyr. "I bade him good morning and snatched up that scepter you saw me use. He sprang up to stop me, so I tossed it where he'd try to catch it, tripped him as he bent, and emptied a bowl of his wash water over his head. I got his keys and freed her before he could be up and hurling spells." He smiled faintly. "She snatched up the whip before I'd even freed her ankles. I nearly lost a finger to it, plucking the wand out of his belt before he could."
  Sharantyr looked at him and then at what was left of a man on the floor. She shivered for just a moment, then asked steadily, "The wand? What sort is this one?"
  Elminster sighed. "Well, it can make things larger or smaller. If we had a tenday or two to spare searching this place, the keep, and any other haunts this mala-spell may have had, I suspect we'd find all manner of missing coins, gems, and other finery made very small. We might also find argumentative or very beautiful folk that the guard stopped, shrunk to the size of thy smallest finger."
  Sharantyr stared at him, eyes large and round. "What a monster!" she hissed, looking around the hut as if every drawer and corner held coiled snakes waiting to leap out at her with hungry fangs.
  Elminster shrugged. "Ever wonder why there are more evil mages than good ones?" he asked. As he turned to go, he added quietly, "It's because power like that makes it so hideously easy to rule all about ye. Remember always, there is no such thing as a mage that is not dangerous."
  With a grunt of satisfaction, he took a handful of dusty, well-stoppered glass vials from an earthen jar by the door. "Healing quaffs," he said. "The only thing I dare spare the time to take. Let's be off, lass, before thy feared counterblow comes from the keep."
  He stepped out through the curtain and paused.
  "Ye might pick up all the food ye can findand wine, for that matter." He looked out, seemed satisfied, and added, "Never forget the food. Coins, now, are hard on the digestion and don't seem to restore a man like simple bread and cheese do."
  "Women," his companion told him dryly, "are no different. And my name's Sharantyr, 'lad.' " She met his eyes challengingly.
  Elminster laughed and replied, "My apologies, Sharantyr. Now hurry, will ye? I'll be giving this wand to one of the folk here, to hide away and use to free shrunken friends later."
  A few hurried breaths later, they vanished back into the woods, Sharantyr's belt heavier by eleven daggers she'd stripped from the fallen Wolves.
  It seemed they'd left these trees very long ago, but up the road, the fat Sembian merchant in newly slit-into-rags clothing could still be seen, sweating pounds off his rotund frame as he fretted, clambered, and pleaded to get his wine-wagons safely away before more guards arrived looking for someone to blame for the fate of their comrades lying sprawled bloodily in the dust of the road. Sharantyr cast a last look around, found herself grinning, and followed the Old Mage into the concealing green depths of the woods.
  * * * * *
  Belaerus shook his head. "Who'd a' thought it?" he said, staring at the bodies sprawled all around. "Just one old man."
  Durvin the cellarer slid the wand he'd just been given into his boot and looked at his friend sharply. "I saw only a young man, a man with a long beard, braver than we. Young enough and brave enough to fight an entire guard of Wolves for the dale. To win back our homes for us."
  Belaerus nodded hastily. "Aye, brave enough."
  "Brave enough," echoed another merchant, and there were nods and murmurs there on the road. Men straightened and set their jaws. Durvin remembered old words, long unsung, and began, his rough voice rumbling loud along the road.
  Six breaths later, when mounted, full-armored Wolves swarmed out of the keep and thundered down the road like a black wind, they found men with fierce, hard eyes and no fear in their faces standing amid the black-armored bodies on the road, singing the old Shieldsong of the High Dale.
  * * * * *
  Men rode hard that day, galloping importantly here and there about the dale. Longspear's message riders, hard eyed and quick, spurred from castle to keep and from keep to posts and barracks. In their wake, the aroused Wolves gave the High Dale a waiting air of armed alertness.
  Bands of soldiers rode the roads, peered into inn rooms and farm kitchens to check again what had been checked many times before, and plunged repeatedly into the dark cloak of trees that covered the northern slopes of the dale.
  Longspear himself, stout and hook-nosed and massive in his worn and well-used armor, sat on an armor-plated war steed as big as some cottages in the dale and eased himself around the streets beneath the frowning walls of the High Castle. Commanding and stern he looked, eyes hard and jaw grim, as he waved and pointed with huge iron-gauntleted hands. Attentive message riders galloped in obedience to his every order. But for all his authority and their energy, the intruders who'd hurled spells enough to destroy half a handful of the lord's feared mages and sent twenty or more Wolves to their graves in blade-to-blade battle remained uncaught.
  Heladar Longspear surveyed the mountains fearlessly. Unmoving, uncaring of the might he commanded, they walled in the High Dale to the north and south, at once protecting him and shielding his newfound, mysterious foes. Was Sembia behind this? Cormyr? Outlaws trying to seize a home? Or worse?
  Deep inside, a chilling whisper repeated the thought he'd been pushing down since the first blood had spilled on the Daggerdale side of the supposedly secret gate that linked him with the Zhentarim. Was a rival priest, mage or faction within the Brotherhood seeking to bring him down, to work some dark and hostile plan?
  It might be someone here in the dale. Angruin, perhaps, angry that he'd not been given open rule. Or one of the lesser mages, ambitious and impatient to better his standing in the Brotherhood. That would be bad. Danger close at hand, and skillful enough that he'd not seen it until twenty or more blade-brothers had fallen.
  Perhaps the alternative was worse. Someoneit could be anyonein the Brotherhood striking from the shadows, pursuing an unknown plan with unknown strength. A beholder, half-a-handcount of liches, a rebel cabal of priests ... all such had happened before. It was even whispered that Manshoon cold-bloodedly worked behind such intrigues, keeping rivals down and everyone afraid of each otherand of him.
  Heladar found himself sweating and forced his thoughts to more comfortable matters: affairs of war fought with swords, with no magic more than priestly healing and a few flash-and-bang spells cast by obedient magelings. Scouring the High Dale was his task right now, then a good evenfeast. After the meal, the council would gather. He'd called the moot, and he'd have to see past the masks of smooth words and stiff faces that each man there always wore. His own life might well depend upon it.
  Not for the first time, Heladar found himself thinking of the high constable he'd deposed, and wondering if his own fall would come as swiftly as the one he'd arranged for Irreph Mulmar. He felt the weight of watching eyes on him: the dale folk, who hated him as much as they'd loved Mulmar. He kept his face hard and fearless as he looked slowly around at the patiently watching mountains. Then he directed his mount unhurriedly toward the castle. Though the sun was still high and the day fair, a cool breeze seemed to come out of nowhere, tuck cold fingers over the high collar of his armor, and wind its way slowly down his spine. Heladar Longspear rode into the High Castle and wondered how much longer it would be his.

9
Death to the Tyranny of All Mages

  The great doors boomed shut, causing torches to flicker up and down the walls of the high-ceilinged great hall, reflected flames glimmering on the motionless helms and breastplates of the lord's honor guard. The Council of the High Dale was in session.
  Lord Heladar Longspear looked glumly down the great table. The searchers had so far come back empty-handed. Their mysterious enemies had slid away from seeking blades as a breeze loses itself in the woods. An old man and a girl, if the report just in from Eastkeep was to be believed. Only two, with swords and some magic, against all his warriors and. the mages of the Brotherhood.
  Yet there were almost thirty fresh graves up behind the barracks. Worse, the arch-backed chairs halfway down the table where the lesser mages sat were empty. Mrinden, Kalassyn, and Sabryn were not here. Of the three, only Kalassyn still livedand he lay abed, still too near death to walk about or sit in a chair half the evening. No one looked at the empty seats.
  Silence fell over the murmuring councillors as Heladar's gaze ranged over them all. Twelve pairs of eyes looked back at him. Longspear did not bother to rise, smile, or utter empty words of welcome. They all knew why he'd called them here.
  "Councillors," he said heavily, his eyes on the few faces he did not know as fellow agents of the Brotherhood, "I thank you for your swiftness in answering my call. Haste is of importance in dealing with any violence, unless one wants open war to erupt. We must deal speedily with the mysterious attacks and lawless outrages that have occurred in our fair dale this day and the night just past."
  He left a little silence then. As usual, the most stupid of the local merchants rushed in to fill it. Fat Jatham, they called the wheezing, heavy-lidded, pudding-bellied weaver. He wore a splendid tunic, his own work no doubt.
  "Hemah, Lord," Jatham breathed, "we've all heard wild rumors of battle, and spells, and many of your brave warriors slain. But I daresay most of usas I, myselfwere abed, asleep, for most of what went on. Will you tell us what befell?"
  Longspear stared at him, not letting anything show on his face. Was the little man's slip about the sword brothers deliberate or merely slow wits? Everyone in this room and the dale around knew with cold certainty that the men-at-armshis Wolves, the people called them obeyed only Longspear and the mages. It was not polite, however, to say so. If open defiance started, it would spread like a wind-driven fire in dry grass. And if stamping it out meant a weaver's body swinging on the newly built gibbets on the castle walls, what of that?
  He raised his hand to indicate Angruin. The cold-eyed mage brought him orders from Zhentil Keep, often making it clear he thought swordsmen like Longspear were just barely intelligent enough to obey them. He made it clear that Heladar was to take orders from him, in private, or suffer the wrath of Manshoonafter the pain of whatever dark magic Angruin Myrvult cared to inflict on him.
  Well, then, let Angruin obey Lord Heladar in public, and do it well. Called himself Stormcloak and thought himself a big man because he could work a few nasty spells on folk, did he? Let him do some work.
  A long-ago memory came to mind: an old Zhent warrior drinking himself to death, telling Heladar, "Priests and mages both are deadly to ye, boy. Deadly to us all. Mind ye keep 'em busy, for they're most apt to get into trouble and do ye ill with underhanded work when they've time to plot and scheme and skulk. Keep 'em too busy to dig ye a grave."
  Angruin dragged his cold eyes only slowly from Longspear's face and said to the weaver, "Unknown personsat least two and probably many morehave somehow entered our dale. They used magic against our loyal troops, so we suspect magic allowed them to sneak in among us. Our patrols first met with them in the practice field above the barracks, just north of here"he nodded toward the window, but not a single head in the room bothered to turn and look"last night, and there was a battle."
  He paused for effect, looking around the table. "Magical fire was hurled against our forces. For safety, we advise that no one approach that place. Spread the word among the people: Avoid the upper field. There's nothing to see there, in any case, and the magic that still lurks there can twist the unwary into the forms of snakes, newts, or worse. Our soldiers have set a guard to discourage the curious."
  "Is that," the urbane, poker-faced Sembian merchant asked calmly, "what happened to the mages who are not here with us today?" Xanther Srildar sat in his usual seat, right across from the empty chairs. Not for the first time, Longspear wondered if he was more than he appeared to be.
  Angruin obviously felt the same. "Yes," he said flatly. "We lost some of our swordsmen but repulsed the intruders."
  "How many?" The blunt question came from dark-eyed, dark-browed Blakkal Mord, a local leather worker. This one was no friend to any newcomers to the daleincluding, of course, all men of the Brotherhood.
  Angruin's eyes narrowed. Certain councillors were always trying to find out just how many soldiers the lord commanded in the dale. Were they truly simple enough to believe they'd ever be given a truthful answer?
  "A score and three," Angruin said promptly. "At the field, when we chased these enemies through the woods, and this morning, when they attacked the road guard at Eastkeep."
  There was a stir up and down the table. Not all here had heard of this before. Not surprisingly, Xanther and the other Sembian merchant, the wine dealer Saddusk, spoke together. "What befell there?"
  Angruin looked meaningfully to the Lord of the Dale. Longspear motioned him to continue and picked up his flagon. It was good wine. He gave a silent nod of thanks to Thammar Saddusk, who returned it gravely. Then he turned back to the wizard. It had been happy fortune that the wine merchant had decided to move to the dale, in semiretirement from the bustle and high prices of Sembia's crowded cities, just after Longspear had taken it. The wine at the High Castle, by all accounts, was better than what one could get in Zhentil Keep itself, unless one was both noble and too rich to care what was charged for it.
  Angruin began with a shrug. "Two peoplean old man and a young woman, the watchers on the keep wall saycame out of the woods and fought with the guard on the road. They prevailed, entered the guard hut, and then fled."
  "Prevailed?" Gulkin Hammarlin asked, his tone none too friendly. "Were all the guards slain?" The burly former hiresword was no friend to Zhent newcomers, either, and apt to be difficult. He was the best carpenter, glazier, and roofer in the dale, though; too useful to silence.
  "Yes." Angruin's mouth shut like a trap, leaving only the single word hanging in the air over the table.
  "Nine armed men?" Saddusk's dry voice asked. "What of the guard-wizard? What's his nameDommil, or whatever?"
  Stormcloak gave Longspear another inquiring look. Heladar took great satisfaction in raising his own eyebrows in mock surprise and motioning him to continue again.
  "Ildomyl," Angruin said flatly. "Dead."
  The mages Nordryn and Hcarla, Stormcloak's sneering lurkers-at-shoulders, both looked at him sharply. Nordryn and Ildomyl had been friends, and Nordryn looked shaken.
  Hcarla just looked irritated, no doubt because Angruin hadn't told him of this before the meeting. Hcarla always wanted to know everything that was going on. On two late-night occasions when Longspear had shown certain traveling ladies the private chambers of the Lord of the High Dale, Heladar had caught sight of Hcarla's familiara small, ugly, bat-winged cat. On the second occasion, Heladar had taken great delight in cutting the spying creature out of the air with his blade and watching it plummet into the moat. Hcarla had been weak and white-faced for days.
  But enough ancient history. No doubt everyone in the dale knew by now that the mercenary band that had seized the High Dale by deposing High Constable Mulmar and slaughtering the constables he commanded had come from Zhentil Keep. Anyone with wits at all knew that no independent band would include more than a handcount of wizards. The dalefolk knew that Heladar Longspear was here at the pleasure of the Zhentarim, even if no whisper of that had ever passed the lips of any Brotherhood agent.
  Yet would that connection, even proven, spur a neighboring realm, nearby merchant, or hard-luck mercenary or outlaw band to challenge the rule of the self-proclaimed Lord Longspear? Nay. 'Twas more likely to discourage any open attack.
  So, did these magical attacks, first launched through the Zhentarim-created Daggerdale supply gate, come from rivals in the Brotherhood, or were they mounted as some sort of devious test? Heladar studied the faces of the men who sat at his council table, wondering (not for the first time, nor yet, he feared, the last) which ones might be spies or waiting challengersand who, or what, stood behind each.
  With half the wizards gone, twelve sat before him at the table. Stormcloak, Hcarla Bellwind, and Nordrynthe Zhentarim mages, openly menacing, sure of their power. Everyone at the table knew they ruled in the High Dale as much as he did.
  Heladar kept his face impassiveit was second nature by nowand looked to the others. Three were Zhent agents, their loyalties known to himself and the mages but not, he hoped, to others in the dale or to watching outsiders.
  There was the local blacksmith, Kromm Kadar, staring back at him impassively. A recent addition to the council and a Zhentilar warrior of bannerlord rank, Kromm was a silent, strong man who saw all and missed nothing. His predecessor, in both council seat and smithy, had been a Sembian spy, the first man Angruin had killed openly in the dale.
  There was Alazs Ironwood, local horse breeder and trader, a sarcastic Zhentilar veteran, a Sword with much experience in battle.
  Next to him sat the balding, birdlike alchemist who served as physic, pharmacist, and tanner to the dalefolk. He was also their only priesta finger of the Black Hand, of courseand Heladar trusted him not a whit. He probably reported back to Fzoul Chembryl every time a mouse drew breath in the dale. Cheth Moonviper was his name, and as befitting a blood member of one of the oldest Zhent noble families, he was haughty, fussy, prissy, and far too perfumed and giggling for Heladar to want to approach him closely.
  Those, Heladar reflected with dark humor, were his allies.
  The other six men at the table could, in secret, serve half the Realms. Unless they were very foolish or unlucky, neither he nor any of these strutting spell-hurlers would ever know their treachery for sure until, of course, it was too late.
  Heladar eyed them sourly, suppressing a sigh. He was tired of veiled menace, intrigue, and honeyed words. Swinging a sword was more his style. Did every ruler, even of such petty places as this, have to contend with such dung and serpents? It was a wonder more kings didn't hold daily executions!
  He could think of a few that would do the High Dale, himself, and probably their wives and as-yet-unborn offspring a service by quickly and quietly swallowing a sword blade in some alley near the castle. Heading the list would be the fat weaver, Jatham Villore. The man was a loudmouthed pest and, Heladar suspected, far wiser than he pretended to be. But if the weaver was a spy, whom did he report to?
  The leather worker, Blakkal Mord, seemed altogether more sinister. A warrior, before all the gods, and not out of practice, either. He'd lived in the dale a long time, but that didn't mean he wasn't the eyes for a local power. Sembia? Cormyr? By the beard of Tempus, he could even serve the Pirates of the Isles! Heladar sighed. Hopeless, this guessing, until the man let slip his true banner. Like all the rest.
  The smooth-tongued, saturnine Xanther Srildar was almost too obviously a spy. The Sembian "rarities and collectibles" merchant could be the eyes for Sembia or any merchant cabal one might think of. He might even serve the Cult of the Dragon, the Harpers, or Gondegal the Lost King for that matter. He moved his hands like a wizard. Heladar frowned at those hands, not for the first time.
  Then there was the surly, barrel-chested carpenter, Gulkin Hammarlin, one of an old naval family from Daerlun. Gulkin had lived in the High Dale for over twenty winters after a short, hard mercenary career, and fiercely resented Longspear's rule. His hatred for the mages was even stronger, suggesting it was Zhentil Keep he stood against and not Longspear the usurper. What was more, he didn't bother to hide his leanings.
  Rundeth Hobyltar was another one. The local tailor and dyer was brighter than Gulkin, almost as much the snake as Xanther. Laconic and cynical, he took pains to appear easygoing. Heladar's informants said that, in the days before Zhentarim mages had first come to the High Dale, Rundeth had been a shrewd warrior, often hired by Sembian interests to ferret out and destroy outlaws in the mountains, and even thieves in the big port cities of the Land of Silver. Perhaps he was in the pay of someone in Sembia even now.
  And last, Thammar. The wine merchant was the only witty, friendly, serenely apolitical councillor, interested only in getting good wine into the dale for all and in lining his pockets liberally along the way. Hmmm ... retired from Sembia. Gods spit! Saddusk could be a Sembian spy, or worse. With his contacts, he could be an agent for fabled Kara-Tur or someplace even farther afield. Often it's the friendliest one, the one you least suspect, who has the dagger waiting . . . and Thammar did wear a sword rather too casually for a soft, nearly retired Sembian merchant.
  Oh, to the grave with all this pondering! Any one of them, or all of them, could well be behind this. Or it might be simply the work of a wizard gone off his head, with his daughter, apprentice, or pleasure-maid keeping him company.
  Heladar realized with a sudden chill that, in the end, it didn't really matter. If Longspear was to rule in the High Dale more than a winter longer, he must assume all of them were in league against him and waiting for a chance to bring him down. If he didn'twell, one of them at least would try.
  And if he was able or lucky enough to survive that attempt, the idea would be in their heads. One of the others would decide that the title of Lord of the High Dale sounded grand enough andsituated on the trade road between Cormyr and Sembia, while Zhent-backed brigands kept the Daerlun road dangerous and expensiveprofitable enough to make a grab for it.
  Even the best blade can grow dull, if it has to lop off too many reaching fingers.
  * * * * *
  Heladar's continuing silence had led Stormcloak on to bolder speech. Warmed by the heat of his own wagging tongue, the wizard had even begun to speak as if the High Dale's men-at-arms obeyed him andthe traditional failing of magesas if the council would agree to his every whim because no intelligent being could help but see things as he did. Heladar just smiled and went on being silent.
  Angruin was in the midst of exhorting his fellow councillors to stir their children, their neighbors, their neighbor's children, and any cats and dogs within reach to take up arms and scour every inch of the dale for these intruders, to slay them, capture them, or drive them out. The dale must be cleansed!
  Ye gods, he sounds like one of the priests. Heladar turned his gaze again around the table. Of course the mages want every blade out and every child alert. The more who fight, the more they can hide behind, hurling spells from a safe distance.
  This could be a real challenge, to the Zhentarim as well as to the lordship of Heladar Longspear. Cormyr could be lurking behind the attacks, or Sembia, or even powerful loners like the fabled Gondegal, Elminster of Shadowdale, or the willful, wandering Witch-Queen of Aglarond who flew endlessly about Faerun in the shape of a black falcon, meddling. The only thing to do was to muster the entire armed might of the dale to track down the intruders, backed by all the magic the wizards could mount. Manshoon would order that if Heladar didn't.
  There was something else, though. Even before these attacks, the wizards had been tense and troubled. Had this entire episode been prearranged by someone in Zhentil Keep, part of some deep plan to cast aside Longspear and change the rule of the High Dale again?
  Nay. That would not worry the mages so collectively and deeply. They'd looked like lost men, especially the lesser ones. At the time, he'd assumed that Zhentil Keep had given them harsh and unsettling orders not for his ears. Now, though . . . Nordryn had been upset by the news about his friend, but now his face showed not so much shock and grief as it did fear for his own skin, and a sort of helplessness. He stared down at his open hands for a moment as if not believing that they could ever cast a spell again.
  Heladar's eyes narrowed. Was that it? Ildomyl had seized a goodly amount of magic, by all accounts, and certainly the man had a wand or two. He shouldn't have fallen so easily. Had his magic failed him?
  He smiled. Watching the mages would take longperhaps too long. Better to charge in, swinging a blade, and force things his way. He smiled and said quietly, "Angruin is right, of course. We must rouse the dale."
  Stormcloak's head turned in surprise. He had almost forgotten Heladar was there at all. Longspear met his eyes and added softly, "Yet there is something I must speak to him about in private. Something about . . . spells." He raised his eyebrows, awaiting Angruin's agreement.
  That was it! There was something amiss with their magic. The mages were all looking at him as though he'd grown six hissing serpent heads, and all of them breathing fire, too!
  Heladar smiled evenly at them all, looking mysterious and enjoying it. Let them think he had his own sources rather than dismissing him as a stone-headed, sword-swinging puppet who'd dance eagerly to whatever tune they told him Zhentil Keep played. This was more the way things should be. He drummed his fingertips in satisfaction on the hilt of his sword, below the edge of the table, and leaned forward.
  The other councillors were agreeing, of course. They could hardly appear loyal, or even prudent in matters touching the safety of their homes, if they did not. If they were all spies, though, the coming turmoil could only give them chances to kill off Zhent mages and warriors, weakening the invisible but heavy hand in which Zhentil Keep held the High Dale.
  "Have we agreement, then?" he asked softly, surprising them all this time. He gathered them in with his eyes, one by one around the table. All met his gaze. All, even the wizards, nodded to his authority.
  Heladar Longspear rose to his feet and looked down that long table. "As we are all agreed," he began formally, "I have no hesitation in giving the orders: We loose all our hounds and go to war."
  * * * * *
  It was cold, churning along up to their knees in the swampy backwaters, and the smell was incredible. "See the far reaches of the Realms," Sharantyr muttered.
  "Walk where no mortal has trod. ... Is this what those mercenaries mean when they go spinning tales in the taverns?"
  "To lure idle young bravos? Aye." Elminster chuckled. "This is exactly what they mean, though they sing a different song." He strode along in the muddy water unconcerned, his long robes drawn up through his belt into a ridiculous bundle. Seeing her look, he laid a hand suggestively on his hip, batted his eyelashes at her, and winked. Sharantyr saw that he'd tied the long end of his white beard into a club knot.
  It was too much. She shouted with laughter, doubled up over the fetid water, then stopped suddenly, clapping a dripping hand over her mouth.
  "Tymora bless me!" she hissed. "I'm sorry, Old Mage! The guards"
  Elminster chuckled. "Don't worry," he assured her. "That last cliff back there, the one like the ship's prow, marks the western end of the dale, or used to. We've slipped clean past Westkeep and into what they call the Hullack Stairsor used to."
  Sharantyr chuckled at that. "I'll be hearing you say 'or used to' in my sleep."
  Elminster's eyebrows rose. "Oh?" he asked with dignity. "I was aware that I'd given thee leave to accompany me, young lady, and that ye'd behaved thyselfmore or lessimpeccably, given our physical proximity and, ah, dire straits. But I assure thee I do not recall giving thee any intimation that ye'd be welcome to listen to me while ye pretend to slumber!"
  Sharantyr sighed, and shook her head. "All right, Old Mage, all right," she shushed him. "What now?"
  "Now we look for the marker stone that should be right about. . . here." Elminster trotted around a clump of shrubs, over a fallen tree, and paused dramatically, pointing at a weathered pillar of stone.
  "You knew where to find this?"
  Elminster shrugged. "Unless someone took it into his head to move it since I placed it here, some three hundred winters ago."
  Sharantyr rolled her eyes. "And having found your marker?" she asked the sky.
  The Old Mage did not reply. He was leaning forward, staring at the stone. On the side closest to the High Dale, someone had written with the ashen end of a burned stick: "Death To The Tyranny Of All Mages." Elminster frowned at it for a long breath or two, then slowly grinned.
  He turned. "Eh? Oh, aye. We sleep hereabouts, then turn back and enter the dale openly on the morrow. That's when our fun begins."
  "You mean we attack these Zhents openly? But, your magic"
  Elminster spread open hands. "I have my baubles, and thee, to keep me safe."
  Sharantyr sighed, then smiled and said formally, "We ride well together, Old Mage." Her eyes flashed.
  Elminster bowed, gave her a sad, slow smile in return, and answered, "Ye're not the first lass that's said that to me, but I thank thee for saying it." And he leaned over and kissed her cheek tenderly.
  Sharantyr looked at him, somewhat surprised. The Old Mage smiled back at her for a moment. Then he suddenly stiffened, turned white, and abruptly sat down on some ferns.
  "Elminster!" She sprang forward and bent over him anxiously. "What befalls?"
  The wizard shook his head and waved a hand at her before reaching up to unknot his beard. "Much power was suddenly drawn out of me. It wasupsetting."
  He brightened, then frowned. "Perhaps Lady Mystra is with us again and had need of it. Orperhaps another being has found a way to steal what I carry, and the Realms are doomed." He shrugged, and brushed aside a few branches to stretch out more comfortably.
  "Ah, well," he said. "Stretch out here beside me, lasShar, sorry. No doubt we'll find out which has befallen tomorrow."

10
Wizards' Woe

  The sun rose and awakened them.
  Sharantyr felt it warm her face. She came awake, alert in an instant. The ranger lay still, feeling the hard ground beneath her, the reassuring hardness of her sword hilt under her fingers, and a familiar warmthand soundbeside her: the unconcernedly snoring form of Elminster of Shadowdale.
  She smiled, shook her head, and eased away from him to stretch her stiff legs and aching back. The sounds promptly ceased, and a familiar, irascible voice said, "Ready to save the High Dale, then? I was wondering when you'd bother to stir your shanks."
  Sharantyr paused. "You snore loudly when you're wondering about things," she told him, amused.
  Elminster regarded her with dignity. "Simply giving the insides of my skull some fresh air," he replied. "As ye seem to do often, yawning the way ye do whenever we talk about anything."
  Sharantyr waved a dismissive hand. "Simply straining not to miss a single inference or nuance of your fair speech," she told him serenely and walked away.
  The lady ranger turned after a few steps. "I shall return in a breath or two," she announced. "While I'm gone, see what you can do about dawnfry. I'm starving, and my belly seems ever hungrier than that."
  Elminster sighed. "I can certainly take thy mind off it, lass," he said gruffly, "and have thee running about in such a whirlwind of seeking spells and eager blades and shouting Black Helms that thy stomach'll soon have the heaves. But if it's real food ye want to feel sliding down thy gullet and warming thy insides, we'll have to buy that in the High Dale, as any wayfarers would. So the sooner we set off, the sooner we both eat."
  "Fair fortune to that," Sharantyr agreed from behind a tree. "Can we leave off conquering the dale until after I eat?"
  * * * * *
  "Ready to save the dale, then?" Belkram asked cheerfully.
  Itharr just looked at him. "Is there anything to eat?" A rolling growl from his stomach echoed the query.
  "No," Belkram said just as cheerfully. "I saw a few berries yestereve, two ridges back, but there weren't more than a handful."
  "Ummm." Itharr looked glum. "All this running about, hacking mages and Zhentilar strongnecks, seems a lot more enticing on a full stomach."
  "One stride before the next," Belkram said reassuringly. "If we knock over enough mages, we're sure to find one with some food. If we have to take the lord's throne of this place to do it, we can throw a victory feast, and you can stuff yourself for free."
  "Ummm," Itharr said again, stretchingand wincing at the stiff tenderness of his wound. "After we defeat all the evil ones? I'm not even certain this is the High Dale. What if we're somewhere east of Impiltur or in the fabled Far Isles?"
  "Then we'll have a long walk back," Belkram said, not unkindly. "Let's look for an inn, or at least a tavern. There must be one. We've seen a castle and a lot of homes outside its walls. We'll ask folk there if anyone's seen Elminster of Shadowdale wandering about."
  "Aye," Itharr grunted, reaching out of long habit for his blade. "And then we'll leap to our feet and try to carve a way out of the place, through seven handcounts or so of black-armored hireswords all howling for our blood."
  Belkram shrugged. "Right, so we'll buy some dawnfry first and ask questions later."
  Itharr nodded. "If I'm to be fighting for my life," he said, hefting his blade experimentally, "I'd prefer to do it knowing that I've at least had one last good meal."
  Belkram looked at him and scratched the stubble on his chin. "A real brightheart, aren't you?"
  Itharr grinned. "Let's put on our best Harper smiles as we rush to certain death, hewing and slaying with the best of them!" he chirped brightly and mockingly, and skipped down out of the rocky hollow where they'd slept, whistling a merry tune.
  Belkram sighed. "Why is it always my lot to share trail with the lunatics?" he asked the gods above as he followed. As usual, the gods did not bother to answer.
  * * * * *
  Heladar Longspear stood on the castle walls and looked around at his dale. He strode slowly, gazing for a long time east down the tunnel-like valley and looking almost as long into the west. The sentinels on the walls saluted him in respectful silence and kept out of his way. Heladar was silently grateful for that.
  He'd grown to love this harsh, stone-locked, backward placea dale of history and importance balanced on a sword's edge between proud Cormyr and rich Sembia, a place that had bowed to him, however unwillingly, for over a moon now. A place he'd felt was strong and secure in his grip despite the ongoing schemes of the mages, and the rest of the council for that matter. Secure for long enough to relax and enjoy the place.
  His High Dale. His until the night before last, at least. Now some unknown foe was lurking out there, perhaps even under his gaze right now, looking back at him from hiding, waiting to bring about his fall.
  He wheeled, cloak swirling, to stride toward the stairs leading down. He'd ordered his best armor freshly oiled and laid ready this morn, and he'd feel better once he was in it.
  He'd learned a thing or two in enough years of battle and guardianship, waiting and scouting, standing guard and snatching sleep whenever possible. He'd learned the ways of war, to trust his hunches, to smell danger, and to feel when something was wrong or when violence was coming.
  Today, for instance. Strife would come here, to the heart of the High Dale, this day. Heladar could feel it, and an old soldier's bones never lied.
  Who, he wondered for the twentieth time since dawn, was at large, swords out, in his dale? Who sought the downfall of Lord Longspear?
  He was just swinging his boot forward to descend the first step when up out of the darkness came two dark eyes he knew and disliked. The eyes looked back at him, cold and knowing, not bothering to hide their own feelings.
  Angruin. The mage who called himself Stormcloak and thought himself the true ruler of the High Dale.
  Longspear came to a silent halt on the top step, hand on hip where it could rest by his weapons, and waited.
  This whole affair could just be a clash of private plots and feuds among these mages. There need be no outside, lurking enemy, merely the creatures and servants of this ambitious, strutting Zhentarim or any of the lesser wizards beneath him.
  Longspear did not allow himself to sigh. He kept his eyes bleak as Stormcloak swept up the last steps.
  "Fair morn, Lord," the mage greeted him coldly and smoothly. "Are you well? Is there something dark on your mind?"
  Longspear eyed him back just as coldly. "The safety of my dale," he said shortly. "As usual. Will you be ready, mage, to see to the safety of the High Dale, should we be attacked?"
  "Attacked?" Stormcloak crooked one long, arched eyebrow. "Do you expect something as swiftly as all that?"
  "Sooner," Longspear growled. "Sooner." He looked out again at the peaceful trees and fields of the dale below, then up to the frowning gray walls of the mountains beyond on both sides.
  Then he brought his gaze down, hawklike, directly to meet the wizard's.
  Stormcloak's eyes were steady upon him. He waited.
  Silence. Heladar sighed inwardly and asked, "Well?"
  "My lord?" The mage added the slightest mocking twist to the title.
  "I asked you a question, mage." Heladar kept his voice cold, level, and patient. "Have you an answer for me?"
  Stormcloak was silent. Heladar propped an elbow on the nearest stone crenellation as if he had all the time in the Realms, leaned against it, and waited.
  The mage waited a moment more, testing Longspear's gaze, then said softly, "My spells are ready to defend the High Dale, for the greater glory of the Zhentarim."
  For the Zhentarimnot for Heladar Longspear.
  The Lord of the High Dale gave him a wintry smile to show that his verbal jab had not been missed and said, "What is it I hear from Zhentil Keep, then, of magic going wild and mages falling mad?"
  Angruin took a step closer, frowning. "Wild magic? Who has told you of this?"
  Longspear smiled a long, slow smile. "One," he said carefully, "whom it is better not to name. I assure you that you know him. He inhabits a lofty tower."
  Angruin kept his face mildly interested, no more. Manshoon. Longspear's words could mean only one man: he who dwelt in the Tower High. Lord Manshoon, leader of the Zhentarim. This Heladar Longspear must enjoy more favor than he'd thought.
  Longspear, who'd just launched his greatest bluff so far in his dealings with this haughty wizard, smiled and hoped he'd get away with it. "Well?" he asked again. "The day does draw on, Angruin. I can't order the men to best effect unless I know how much I can rely on your magic, and that of the lesser mages. What say you?"
  Angruin Myrvult accepted the extended hand of peace somewhat reluctantly. "Our Artthe magic of all men, from what I hear and suspecthas become somewhat . . . unsettled. Yet we stand with you as always, Lord Longspear. Moreover," he added, lifting his hands to reveal the wand at his belt that his fingers had been tightening around as they spoke, "we are never without at least one ... aid."
  "Good," Heladar told him. Before Stormcloak could add the inevitable threat, he spoke it for him. "I'll remember that."
  The Lord of the High Dale went down the stairs, feeling cold eyes on his back all the way down. He kept his shoulders broad and square, taking satisfaction in his daring at turning his back on Angruin for so long. No one else in all the dale dared to.
  * * * * *
  Jatham Villore looked out of his shop, up at the frowning bulk of the High Castle looming above the trees. "Yet the eating of bad bread may make a haunt of the dreams of even a lord," he echoed the quotation. No, the word had been "kings," hadn't it? No matter.
  Heladar and his bullying mages were upset indeed, for the first time since they'd come here. Perhaps their rule could be weakened or even broken altogether.
  That would please his masters very much.
  Jatham went quietly into his shop and bolted the door. This wouldn't take long. Just a simple spell or two to confuse and befog magical attempts to locate things and folk such as the mysterious enemies who'd twice been so bold as to strike out at the lord's Wolves and mages.
  Or even more times, if Longspear and Angruin had not told all. Jatham grinned as he bolted an inner door behind him. These cloaking spells had saved his own skin more than once. Back in Thay, he'd learned their ins and outs very thoroughly, for wise masters had told him that his success as an agenthis very survivaldepended on such knowledge. They'd been right, of course.
  Jatham laid hands on what he'd need, closed his eyes briefly to gather his will, and began the whispered chant. At long last, it was time to act.
  * * * * *
  They had almost reached the hard-eyed guards when Elminster snapped his fingers and laid a firm hand on the inside of Sharantyr's elbow, dragging her to a halt.
  "I must be getting old," he muttered. "I almost forgot." He gestured toward the bushes. "Go in there to relieve yourself," he directed.
  Sharantyr raised an eyebrow. "I don't need to at the moment, thank you very much, Old M"
  As she spoke, Elminster smoothly produced the two wands he was carrying and slid them up the sleeve of the arm he was clasping.
  "All I need ye to do is slide these under thy'hemchest, Shar," he murmured. "Beneath them, mind, where no searching guard will feel them. Hurry, now."
  Sharantyr gave him a look and did as she was bid. She came out into the road fumbling with the lacings at her belt and saw two of the guards exchange amused looks. The wands felt cold and hard next to her skin.
  He grinned at her. "I'll reclaim them as soon as I can, lass," he promised.
  "I'll just wager you will," she replied in warning tones.
  "One more thing," Elminster added hurriedly. "If I signal yousoby scratching my ear, think hard of Sembian trade, merchant contacts, and making money there. Keep thinking of those things until I scratch there again."
  "You mean someone might pry at our thoughts?" Sharantyr asked warily.
  Elminster nodded and added loudly, "I've told ye, gel, if ye drink so much before setting out, o' course the walking'll see thee in the bushes all too soon!"
  The guards smiled at his words, waving them to one side of the road and staring hard at them both.
  "A copper each for passage into the High Dale," said the larger one shortly, holding out his hand.
  Elminster meekly took two coppers out of his pursetwo coppers he'd picked up in the guard hut at the other end of the dale, not so long agoand paid them over.
  "Stretch out arms afore ye," said another guard, blade drawn. "We have orders to search all who enter the dale. Resist us, or reach for any weapon, and you'll see nothing else in this life but your own blood, all of it leaving you."
  * * * * *
  Haragh Mnistlyn leaned forward in his chair. A warrior woman traveling with an old man was certainly odd. Best give these two the full scrutiny.
  He stood up, making a certain sign. The guard who was watching for it drew his blade and motioned to another of his fellows. They took up positions near the two who were being searched, near enough to disrupt the casting of a spell with a quick lunge.
  Haragh stood under his awning, watching the faces of the two narrowly, as hard-eyed as the guards, and began the casting of a spell to read minds.
  * * * * *
  Elminster scratched one ear and Sharantyr frowned slightly. Hard, probing hands wandered over them both. They waited, unmoving.
  Until they heard a gasp.
  Everyone turned. The mage who'd sat in the chair under the canopy, back from the road, was standing horrified in the midst of well-trodden grass. In front of him, as they watched, little white flowers were appearing, first singly, then in clusters of three and more. Swiftly, silently, the flowers appeared out of nothingness, without any fuss or spell-smoke.
  The mage stared down at them, stunned.
  Sharantyr glanced quickly at Elminster. His eyes had widened just a trifle, but now he was nodding, slowly, as if he understood.
  He stepped forward, ignoring the blades held ready near him, and clapped his hands. "Beautiful!" he said enthusiastically. "I've seen no better in the tavern spell-contests of Waterdeep itself! My thanks, mage. Has the High Dale become a place where magic is embraced and its beauty appreciated?"
  Haragh's mouth opened and shut, but no words came out. He stared down at his hands, then sat down suddenly in his chair, shaking his head.
  Elminster's face fell. "Oh, dear," he said to the nearest guard. "Did he intend to cast something else? My apologies, if I've offended .. ."
  The guard looked at him. "You a wizard?"
  "Nay, nay," Elminster said with a regretful sigh. "Fascinated by the stuff. See as much of it as I can, and trade in it when Lady Luck has it so, but I can't call up even a spark, even when lowly apprentices take too many gold pieces from me for showing me how to. It's just not something the gods meant for me, it seems."
  The warrior chuckled. "Aye, you and me both, old man." He jerked his head. "Go on, then," he told them. "We'd better see to Lord High-and-Mighty." He stared over at the chair with long-suffering good humor, and Elminster chuckled in the easy fellowship of one downtrodden jack to another.
  "My thanks, goodsir," the Old Mage told him and trudged eastward into the High Dale, with Sharantyr in tow.
  * * * * *
  Elminster waited until they were safely screened from any curious eyes on Westkeep's battlements, then stopped and extended a hand.
  Sharantyr calmly loosened the lacings of her leathers, looked swiftly about, and slid his wands out and returned them to him, somewhat warmer.
  Elminster stowed them away as smoothly and said, "My thanks, Shar. We do work well together."
  Sharantyr smiled at him. "Well, Mysterious One? What happened back there?"
  The Old Mage shrugged. "Magic is going awry all over the Realms. We've just been treated to more evidence of that." He looked at her rather sadly.
  "I must warn ye: Rely not overmuch on the magic we're carrying, either."
  Sharantyr nodded slowly and took his arm. They walked on.
  "Tell me," she said in low tones as they went over a little rise and houses began to appear before them, "why you had no fear of being found out, if that mage could read minds? Did you know his spell would fail?"
  Elminster shook his head. "If I could predict its working, 'twouldn't be 'wild magic,' now, would it?"
  Sharantyr nodded. "Mystra's burden, again?" she asked softly.
  "Aye," Elminster said briefly, his gaze leaping here and there ahead of them as alertly as any battle scout.
  "That sounds very useful to a Harperor a courtier, I suppose," Sharantyr said almost wistfully. "No enemy can read your thoughts or twist your will. Why do they call it Mystra's burden?"
  "Think, if ye will," he replied, "of the loneliness ye would feel were ye to outlive all thy friends except fellow bearers of the burden. Ye'd see kingdoms fall, not once but again and again, and favorite places changed or swept away in the passing years. Think on this and ask me again why we call it Mystra's burden."
  Sharantyr was silent beside him as they walked a long way. Then she asked almost timidly, "What, then, will we do now, Old Mage?"
  Elminster looked at her in surprise. "Why, go and defeat this Longspear, of course."
  * * * * *
  Jatham almost fled out of his dark room, breathing heavily. The spells had worked, aye, but he'd never before had Art curl away from his control with almost contemptuous ease. Ye gods, what was happening to him?
  He paused out in the shop to wipe cold sweat from his brow and restore his usual lazy smile before he threw back the bolt. The smile took a lot more effort than usual.
  Rogue magic! What could have caused it? Was Stormcloak an even greater danger than he'd thought?
  Or was it the mysterious enemies? What Art did they wield?
  What dark creatures were they?
  * * * * *
  Belkram looked around at rolling fields, trees clustered along little streams that babbled down from the ever-present watching gray walls of stone above, and drew a deep breath.
  "Ready?" he asked, loosening his blade in its sheath.
  Itharr nodded. "As ever," he replied, adding a wry smile. "Harpers rush in"he quoted an odd saying Elminster of Shadowdale had uttered just last summer, but which was already well known across the North"where even fools fear to tread."
  "Aye," Belkram agreed dryly. "So let it begin." He pushed open the door and they went in. Above their heads, the worn signboard told all passersby that they were looking at "A Good Inn: The Shepherds' Rest." The sign creaked slightly in a gathering breeze, but there wasn't anyone looking at it any longer, so it soon fell quiet again.
  At about the same time, tumult wild and royal broke out with a roar inside the inn.

11
The Running of the Wolves

  " 'A Good Inn,' eh?" Itharr murmured as they shouldered their way through dark, heavy windcurtainsold hides, by the look of theminto smoky, lamplit dimness beyond. "Well, mayhap it was, once."
  "Long ago," Belkram agreed and made for a small table against a wall. The sizzling of bacon and the smell of buttered frybread was strong in the crowded, low-beamed common room.
  A few old men and withered goodwives were huddled in silence at the smaller tables. Most of the room held hard-eyed, arrogant fighting men in a variety of ragged leathers. All sported black armbands, some edged in purple. Off-duty Wolves, no doubt.
  The serving man was old, grizzled, and weary. He shuffled over to the two Harpers with a simple, "Dawnfry? Drink? Right, what'll it be?"
  "Reddarn wine" Itharr replied with an eager smile. The hot spiced drink was brought quickly. It was saltier and thicker than in better houses but went well down their thirsty throats. Dawnfry was even better, and the two Harpers fell on platter after platter like starving men.
  Or, one might say, like Wolves. One of the armsmen strode to their table. His armband had a purple border denoting rank; he was probably a Sword. Belkram looked unconcernedly up at him over a handful of hot, crumbling frybread.
  The burly man's thumbs were hooked under the guards of a dagger at his belt. He met Belkram's eyes with a gaze as cold and as hard as a stone wall, and stood over them silently, waiting for Itharr to notice him.
  Itharr finished his reddarn and said, "More, please," without looking up. Belkram kept his face straight.
  Itharr winked with the eye nearest the wall, so only Belkram could see, as he waved his flagon. "More reddarn," he explained, "when you can. I'm enjoying this excellent bacon."
  "I'm not," the man said flatly, "a servant."
  Itharr turned his head, raised his eyes lazily from the man's belt to his face, and said, "Aye, I can see that. You a hiresword?"
  The man frowned. "I'll ask questions and you'll answer, see?"
  Belkram emptied his own flagon. "Get us more reddarn while you're asking, will you?"
  A few chuckles came from the nearest tables of Wolves as the man turned cold eyes on him. "I serve the Lord of the High Dale," he said heavily, "and I don't recall any armed adventurers being allowed into the dale this last seven days or so. How long've you two been here?"
  "Not long," Belkram told him. "We're wandering minstrels, come to pay a call on friends."
  "You have friends in the dale?"
  "Manyor at least, on our last visit there were many folk here we count our friends," Itharr said smoothly. "We haven't seen them this time around. Could something have happened in the High Dale these last two winters?"
  Silence fell. The armsman scowled at Itharr, leaned a little closer, and asked loudly, "What brings you here this time?"
  "We're trying to find a friend who might have come here," Belkram told him truthfully.
  "Elminster of Shadowdale," Itharr added helpfully. "Have you seen him?"
  The Sword stiffened and swiftly drew back. The room fell so silent that faint sizzlings could be heard from the adjoining kitchen. The two Harpers looked calmly around to see hands on sword hilts all over the room. These men seemed to know Elminster's name.
  "And what are your names?" their interrogator asked from a safe distance away. He stood now beside his seat, and his sheathed sword lay on it near his hand.
  "Gondegal. The Older," Belkram replied merrily, using the name of the legendary Lost King of Cormyr, a vanished usurper. Itharr added brightly, "Gondegal the Younger."
  The man showed his teeth. "Smart tongues and ragged clothes usually mean Harpers," he said, and turned to address the tables of armed men. "Take them!"
  There was a general rush. Itharr snatched up the last of the frybread and Belkram snatched up the table. He flung it easily, as a child lobs a stone, and took down one Wolf. His chair took down another.
  Amid the general tumult, Itharr swept up his own chair and held it as a shield. "Brawling in an inn? What knavery's this?" he cried loudly. "Does justice rule no longer in the High Dale?"
  Belkram nodded. "Aye! We demand to speak to Irreph Mulmar. A man should not have to fight to have a little dawnfry in this dale!"
  One of the men chuckled, advancing. "Mulmar rules here no longer."
  "What have you done with Irreph?" Belkram asked, his voice slow and quiet. "I knew him, long ago."
  Itharr, who knew Belkram well, shivered a little despite himself when he heard his friend's voice.
  The Sword laughed, not pleasantly. "He works full days at the mill now," he said, "docile as a well-whipped ox since Lord Angruin's magic bent his will."
  "What?" said Itharr and Belkram together as their blades hissed out.
  "Take them!" the order rang out again, and the room erupted into steely war.
  * * * * *
  The crack of the whip and the cold shock of the slop that was his morning meal being dumped on his sleeping body always awakened him. In the cold, misty grayness before full dawn, the dull-eyed thing that had once been a man always licked the slop from his flesh and the smooth stone he walked on.
  They watched him. The moment he was done, the stinging crack of the whip came again, and his chains pulled him forward. It happened again about the middle of each day.
  He was shackled to a massive wooden lever that ran to a central spindle. He walked on a great circle of stone in the darkness, around and around that spindle all day, pushing the lever. Above him, grinding stones rumbled and grain spilled endlessly down with a dry rushing sound. Thick dust rose and water always dripped somewhere, unseen in the echoing dark.
  His hands had stopped bleeding an age ago. Shackles of stout metal encircled his throat and wrists. From each shackle, a chain as long as he was tall led to rings on the great lever.
  When his body grew too foul for the overseershe never saw them, just whips lashing down out of darknesspipes were opened above and icy-cold water washed away the filth. The whips and water had taken his clothes long ago; he wore only a few tattered wisps of cloth around one ankle. His arms, shoulders, and thighs had grown huge and hard, covered with a latticework of white whip scars. His hair had grown long, jaw and chest covered with matted, furlike tangles. His eyes were always dull, no fire alight behind them.
  Until this morn. The millstones rumbled overhead as usual, dust swirled, and the lever, as always, was smooth and very, very heavy. He pushed against it, driving forward a weight that seemed more than three or four dead horses. Endlessly forward. He had to shove and heave and snarl until he got it rolling, then he bent into a smooth, steady push that ate up the endless breaths of the day, around and around and around.
  A thought came to him then, as he trudged, the first unbidden thought in a great while. His working day was really not so different from that of a lot of free men.
  He chuckled at that as he pushed. It was a sound he had not made in a long, long time.
  * * * * *
  Belkram chuckled coldly as his steel found the throat of another Wolf. The Shepherds' Rest was awash with blood and smashed furniture draped with bodies. The warriors who'd been so loudly arrogant when the fray began were now silent forever or backed into a corner, fear in their white faces.
  A few deaths back, several of the Wolves had tried to break past the two Harpers and escape. Out of a side passage to bar their way came the grizzled old serving man, smiling grimly, an ancient and rusting battle-axe in his hands.
  One Wolf contemptuously tried to run him through. The old man slid aside from his lunge, punched his assailant hard in the throat, and trampled the fallen Wolf as he swung his axe at the next. When the Wolves fell back from that old axe, it descended to meet the head of the man on the floor, rising again before they could advance.
  Itharr had reached the rear of those Wolves. Steel leapt and bit, men grunted, swung, and screamed ... and a little silence befell. Itharr and the old serving man used it to share a ferocious smile across the bloody fallen.
  Belkram stalked forward to confront the last few Wolves. "We've important business at the castle," he told them almost sadly, "so we haven't time to take prisoners."
  Itharr sighed. "So sad," he murmured, and lunged. A Wolf shrieked and struck the Harper's blade aside at the last instant. His eyes were still on it when the dagger in Itharr's other hand came up into them.
  As the man fell, two Wolves charged in desperation, swinging their blades wildly. Itharr ducked under the falling body and rolled aside, lifting a boot to trip one Wolf. Belkram's blade took the rearmost in the neck.
  The serving man stood in the door, axe raised. "Who's first?" he rumbled, eyes cold. "Who'll die first?"
  The Wolves hesitated for an instant, and that was long enough for Belkram to slay the one who'd fallen and for Itharr to rise again. The last two Wolves plunged forward desperately.
  The old man's axe bore the first to one side, and Itharr thrust him through from behind. The second leapt for the door and fell through the opening with Belkram on his back, stabbing with cold ruthlessness.
  Silence fell again. Then the two Harpers rose, dusted themselves off, retrieved their weapons, and smiled at the old man. Belkram handed him six gold pieces. "For the furniture ... and the floor show."
  "Aye," Itharr agreed. "Our thanks. We must be off now."
  A light was dancing in the old man's eyes. "Whither, lads? Come you to bring down this Longspear who lords it over us?"
  The two Harpers nodded slowly.
  "We came to find a friend of ours," Belkram said quietly. "But it seems the High Dale needs more attention than he does just now. If he were here, he'd been doing what we aim to. We're off to the castle, to rouse the dale against these Wolves and their wizards." He frowned then as a thought struck him. "Does the high constable yet live?"
  "Aye," the old innkeeper said grimly. "After a fashion. As that carrion said, he's in chains, working the mill as if he were an ox."
  Belkram looked at Itharr. "That ends first." His fellow Harper nodded, the grim expression matching his own.
  "I'm coming with you," the old man said without another glance at the sprawled bodies in his taproom. The axe lifted a little. "I fought off outlaws aplenty, in my day." He handed back the gold. "And I won't take coins from men who do our work for us. No, take 'em! I haven't felt so good in many a year."
  He stepped out to look up and down the street, then squinted thoughtfully at the frowning walls of the castle rising above the rooftops nearby. "Who's this friend you came seeking?"
  Belkram saw faces peering at them from nearby doors and windows. "One Elminster, a wizard. Have you heard of him?"
  The old man's eyes widened a little. "The Elminster?" he asked. "The Old Mage? That wasn't just talk, what you told the Wolves?"
  "No," Itharr said. "We mean to find him. We promised a lady we would. Not to do him ill, either."
  The old man nodded. "I saw him beat six wizards once in a battle of spells. East of here, in Sembia it was. They were slavers, going about using spells to make folks follow 'em willingly by chaining their wits. He got proper hot, I tell you."
  He shook his head, a slow grin broadening his face at the memories. "It was something to see, that. He smashed 'em with lightning, hurled back the balls of fire they threw at him, opened a hole in the sky to swallow up aa great tentacled thing they conjured up and sent after him, and crushed one of 'em under a huge rock. Snatched it off a mountain, in the midst of all, and sent it flying like a bird across most of Sembia to drop from above." He shook his head again, smiling. "I don't suppose he's here now, is he?"
  Itharr spread his hands. Belkram squinted up into the sky.
  "No," he said slowly. "No flying rocks."
  The old man sighed. "I guess not. Ah, well. I'd hoped to see just one more good spellfight, to tell folks about, before I die." His eyes suddenly narrowed as he looked at one Harper and then at the other. "You don't know any magic, do you?"
  The two Harpers sighed, looked at each other, half grinned, and sighed again.
  "If we did," Belkram said ruefully, raising his still-bloody blade, "we wouldn't have to get this close to those who would kill us."
  The old man looked at them both for a while, shaking his head slowly. "Well," he said at last, "without magic, how in the name of all the gods do you expect to stay alive long enough to reach the castle, let alone muster the dale against Longspear? He's got six wizards or more to back him up, Zhent Blackcloaks if I can still tell anything at all about folk I meet!"
  "Well," Belkram said slowly. "We usually try to set things goinglike we did herethen just get our swords out and run with what befalls."
  "You wouldn't be Harpers, would you?" the old man asked quietly. He watched them exchange glances and said, "I thought so. That explains it, then. Some like to roll dice for coins, or trade goods, or even horses. Harpers and adventurers are the only folk who like to do it with their own lives."
  Belkram chuckled as he wiped his steel on the sleeve of a fallen Wolf. The sound was meant to sound unconcerned and casual, but came out a trifle rueful.
  * * * * *
  Daera sighed and sucked her bleeding finger for perhaps the three hundredth time. Sewing flour sacks was something the gods just hadn't meant her to do.
  She looked out the gap between two old, silvery wooden boards at the frowning mountain wall not so far away. It was probably about the three hundredth time she'd done that, too. Bright sunlight dazzled her; it was always dark in the mill.
  Somewhere far below, Father was pushing a lever endlessly around and around, driving the grindstones. It was sheer cruelty. There was water enoughand mules or oxen, tooto do the task. No, Father was there as a reminder to the folk of the dale, as she was, set to work here as a drudge, cooking, cleaning, and sewing these bloody sacks.
  Literally bloody, she thought grimly, pinching her smarting hands between her knees as she knelt on the coarse sacking. The dark spots of her spilled blood had traveled out of the dale on many a sack already. They'd seen a lot more of the Realms than ever she had, or was likely to.
  Every morning, the jailers in their magical mantles of darkness came for her. They tied her hands behind her and crammed dirty cloth into her mouth, binding it there to keep her silent. Then they led her, helpless in their cloaking darkness, down the creaking stairs and uneven floors of the mill, down to the wheel where her father howled or gibbered in his chains.
  That was her reminder. They untied her hands and led her outside in her soiled rags to load heavy flour sacks onto waiting carts, gasping and panting through her gag as hard-faced men in black armor stood guard around a group of silent folk of the dalefolk who had obviously been dragged from their doings and brought here to watch. If any tried to help or comfort her, they were clubbed senseless. It had been a long time since any of them had tried.
  She was their reminder.
  "Ylyndaera Mulmar," she told herself formally, "stop feeling sorry for yourself and get to work." On days when she didn't do what the jailers or mill maids thought was enough, her mealleftovers from the evenfeast platters of the others at the mill, always coldwas smaller. Once, when she'd been too weak from sickness to work, she'd been given nothing at all to eat.
  Daera sighed and picked up the needle again. She was alone here in the drafty mill loftand cold, and bleeding all over her work againbut her father had it much worse, chained like a bull in the cellar below.
  Time and again she'd prayed to the unheeding gods to deliver him, if not from his chains and the backbreaking work then at least from whatever magic they'd laid on his mind. His eyes were always cloudy. Even when she'd been able to make some noiseshe always paid for that with brief but savage blows and whippingsand he'd looked up, he never saw her ... or anything else. His moods swung between stupid placidity and snarling rages. They'd turned him into a lame-witted, crazed beast.
  Daera finished a line of running stitch and bit off the thread. She was too young and weak to fight the Wolves herself. A maid had called her "a young coltall long, gangly limbs and knobbly wrists and ankles." She must think of some way of getting aid, of calling on King Azoun or someone to rescue her father.
  Most of all, Ylyndaera dreamed of the day when Irreph Mulmar would be himself again and rise to drive "Lord" Longspear and his Wolves from the dale, to reclaim his title of high constable. She was seeing that day now in her mind as she settled herself with another sack. Then the crashing and screaming began below.
  She was cautious at first, fearing a beating if she wandered. Then she saw shrieking mill maids scurrying along the hall below her loft. She had to see whatever could make them run so frantically. There'd been no war trumpets or clash of armsher first leaping hope, that the dale was under attack from Cormyr or Sembia, had died alreadybut something was amiss down below.
  Where Father was.
  * * * * *
  "This is the place?" Itharr asked, squinting up at the mill. The old man nodded.
  "Our thanks," Belkram said. As he turned, the tip of his sword lifted a little as if it were eager for battle. "Wait here," he added over his shoulder and stepped toward the stout, closed wooden doors before them. Itharr moved with him.
  "Oh, no," the old man said emphatically. "I'm done with waiting and doing nothing. I'm going with you."
  Itharr turned and flashed him a smile. "Be welcome, then," he said, "but follow our lead." He nodded at Belkram, who was courteously knocking on the door.
  It opened, and a man with a ratlike face looked out, squinting in the bright light of day. "Yes?" he asked, though it was more of a challenge than a question.
  Belkram flashed his brightest smile. "Good day, sirrah! We're with the Zhentil Keep Grain Inspectors Guild and have come at the express request of High Lord Manshoon to see what a fine establishment you're running here." He'd been pressing forward as he spoke. His audience stepped back, gulped, and taking the word "running" as a cue, sprinted off into the dimness as if a band of horse lancers were galloping after him.
  "Thank you," Belkram told his retreating back. He turned to his companions, indicating the mill interior. "Shall we?"
  "Indubitably," Itharr agreed, stepping past him with a half bow, blade raised.
  The old man gave them both looks and snorted. "Young jack-fools," he growled, stumping after them.
  Inside, the mill was a dim forest of stout pillars, stacked crates, spilled flour, sturdy barrels, and piles of sacks. The two Harpers strolled unconcernedly down a cluttered aisle that opened into a large threshing floor. There, darkness awaited them.
  Four pillars of darkness, in fact, with the man they'd spoken to at the door busy beyond, struggling to get a crossbow ready.
  "We're here," Belkram said briskly, "to see the former high constable." As he strode forward, he made a gesture only Itharr saw. The shorter Harper obeyed it, moving to one side.
  The pillars of darkness were already advancing. Itharr casually tossed a dagger at the nearest. It struck something within the magical gloom and clattered to the floor. There was no play of lightnings, and the pillar shifted slightly; men walked within the darkness. The two Harpers sprang forward, converging on one dark column.
  It stepped aside, drawing close to another darkness-shrouded guard so as not to be outflanked. Behind the two Harpers, the old man sighed and flung his axe. It flashed end over end across the room and caught the doorman in the shoulder. He shrieked, dropped his half-wound bow and windlass, and collapsed to the floor, moaning. Then the old innkeeper grabbed at the nearest barrel, toppled it, and with a few practiced heaves sent it rolling at the gathered columns of darkness. They scrambled to get clear and the Harpers darted in, blades flashing. There were grunts, curses, and heavy thuds as bodies bounced on the floorboards, followed by another deep rumbling as the innkeeper sent a second barrel into the fray. "Well done!" Belkram called back as the barrel crashed into a pillar, pinning a column of flickering darkness there for a dazed moment. Belkram's blade slashed into it, thrice, and it toppled, leaving only one column of darkness, which promptly fled, racing down a back passage.
  "After him!" Itharr yelled excitedly. The old man shook his head as the two Harpers rushed off, muttering, "I'm young enough to fight but too old for a lot of charging about," as he retrieved his axe. Going from one darkness-shrouded form to another, he let his axe fall where their heads must be. Then he walked up to the writhing man with the crossbow, shook him, and growled, "How many guards are there here?"
  "II daren't tell" the wounded man began. The innkeeper punched his injured shoulder firmly, and when he repeated the question, the shrieking Zhentilar found sudden courage to dare an answer.
  "Ondarr! Ondarr! We're being attacked!" the fleeing jailer shouted as he pounded down the passage. Belkram and Itharr sprinted after him in the dimness, bouncing painfully off the corners of stacked crates and the projecting ends of barrow handles. "Ondarr!"
  They were running into the heart of the mill, where rumbling wheels ground endlessly. Passing through a succession of crowded chambers, they abruptly came out into a lamplit room where a sleepy-looking Wolf in chain mail was rising from a couch as darkness frantically tugged at his arm.
  The Wolf's eyes widened as he saw the two Harpers bearing down on him. "Ondarr, I presume?" Belkram asked pleasantly. The Wolf got his blade out just in time to parry Belkram's thrust, leaving his left arm raised and underarm exposed to Itharr's blade.
  Itharr of Athkatla ended his charge in a leap that brought him onto the bed, feet up. His blade burst through the Wolf's shoulder an instant before his feet slammed the man against the back of the couch, which broke off with a splintering crash, twisting the unfortunate Zhentilar onto the floor with Itharr atop him. The Harper's dagger made short work of the guard, and Itharr looked up to see Belkram slamming the last darkness-shrouded jailer against a pillar. The man collapsed, and Belkram thrust his hands into the blackness, groping.
  "Lost something?" Itharr asked lightly. "Or is this some new thrill?"
  Belkram made a face at him. "I'm looking for keys, Great One. If the high constable's here, he must be in some sort of cell"
  "Or right there," Itharr said, pointing. Belkram looked up and stared. The great wheels had ground to a halt because the man chained to the lever that drove them had stopped walking and was standing glaring at them with eyes that shone in the dimness like two flames.
  "Irreph Mulmar?" Itharr asked.
  "Aye," the man snarled, bunching his chains with a menacing rattle. "Who are you?"
  "Harpers," Itharr said simply. "Itharr, once of Athkatla, and this is my blade-brother Belkram, from Baldur's Gate. We mean to drive the Zhents from your dale."
  "But first," Belkram said, rising from the unseen body, "we have to find the keys to your shackles."
  "Don't bother," the naked man in the chains said in a deep voice. "Just thrust yon spike into the spindle stop over there."
  Itharr did as the man directed, and with a rattle of chains the man shoved at the lever. It shuddered but did not move. The man nodded in satisfaction, ducked under the levera wooden bar as thick as his arm, worn smooth by the hours his hands had grasped itand braced himself against it, shoving in the opposite direction from the way he'd been pushing it for so long.
  The lever groaned, and the man pitted against it snarled, veins standing out like ropes on his neck. His body quivering like a bent bow, he took a slow, deliberate step forwardand the great lever groaned and shivered and ... broke.
  And Irreph Mulmar, former high constable of the High Dale, stood tall amid the wreckage, tearing his shackles loose from the splintered wood, and said in a voice of iron, "No more."
  "Well met," Belkram said calmly. Irreph gave him a terrible smile and gathered his chains into a bunch in his right hand. "My thanks, both of you. I've a mage to slayand I must learn what has befallen my daughteras soon as I'm free of this stinking mill cellar."
  Suddenly, out of the darkness above, the pointed, rusting fang of a halberd stabbed down at him. Irreph twisted aside, flung a loop of chain over the weapon as it bobbed and reached again, and hauled hard.
  Cursing darkness came helplessly down atop him. Irreph lashed it with his chains until its groans and shrieks had died into silence. Then he swarmed up the spindle in angry haste. Belkram and Itharr exchanged looks and followed.
  Darkness fled from him along a gallery. Irreph followed, bounding along on legs stiff from not stretching for so long. Chained to the wood, there'd been nowhere to run. He laughed exultantly as he caught up with the darknessjust another man wearing a ring that cloaked him in concealing magicand flung a loop of chain around the unseen throat from behind. A dagger clattered to the floor. Limbs flailed against him frantically and gasping sounds began ... and then died away in slow agony.
  Irreph strode on to the stairs. Somewhere ahead was the sun, and the men who'd stolen his wits and dale from him. They must die, all of them. Soon.
  * * * * *
  Ylyndaera hurried down the stairs like a ragged wraith, clinging to railings from time to time to peer ahead. Doors slammed here and there, men shouted and ran, their booted feet thundering on the old, uneven wooden boards, and from below came dull crashings, thumps, and an occasional short scream. What was happening?
  Daera reached the ground floor of the mill, a huge room always piled high with full sacksor, in winter, drifting snowwhere stairs went up and down in all directions. Sunlight spilled in through the open door, and there were men running and fighting everywhere. She saw Yoster, the old innkeeper, hacking with a huge old axe at a Wolf as if he were chopping at a tree that wouldn't fall. There was blood all over the axe.
  Beyond the two struggling men she could see others, more Wolves slashing and hacking at two men she'd never seen before. Where was Father?
  There was no rumbling. The wheels had stopped! Was he dead? Free? Daera swallowed and had to duck aside as a man reeled out of the darkness, cursing, and almost fell over her. He charged on into the fray, clutching at his shoulder, trailing dark drops as he went.
  This was no place for her. Carefully, Ylyndaera peered around a pile of sacks toward the light, just in time to see one of the guards fleeing her way.
  She didn't have time to do anything but crouch in fear. He struck her with a crash, one very hard shin smashing into her side with bruising force. With a fearful curse he pitched over her and crashed to the floorboards, sword bouncing away. Winded, Daera rolled helplessly over against a pile of sacks. She did not even have breath left to moan.
  A dark form strode past, not even seeing her. It savagely swung something long and heavy and metalchains!at the scrambling guard. Metal thudded down with a horrible, heavy, wet sound. Daera heard a sob, a groan, cracking noises, and more thudding. Then silence.
  She lay still, struggling for breath. Booted feet rushed past her, and she saw the flash of a sword. It clashed and slid against chain, and Daera saw the black-armored swordsman flung back against a pile of sacks only to regain his balance and charge again.
  The terrible chains swung again, and Daera heard the man's helm crumple. The sword spun from his hand, and he crashed heavily to the floor.
  Father stalked toward her, gathering bloody chains in one hand as he came. Except for long matted hair, he was naked. Ylyndaera could not even speak as he strode past, not seeing her. Butgods be praised!his eyes weren't the dull, unseeing things that had wandered over her as he howled in the darkness, but the sharp, clear eyes of the ranger of old, the aroused and angry high constable of the High Dale.
  He was gone, out into the sun. The two strangers rushed out after him, swords in their hands, and old Yoster with his axe followed, stumbling in weariness or perhaps because he'd been hurt. On her knees, fighting for breath, she could not tell.
  Daera gasped for air, wishing she was at her father's side this instant to watch him smite down soldier after soldier of the tyrants. To see these black-armored Wolves fall...
  Gods watch over ustheir bows! He'll be slain, sure!
  A terrified Daera, still doubled over in pain, staggered out into the light. She saw much blood, and men in black armor lying still in the midst of it, hands raised vainly to clutch at life now fled.
  Dalefolk had gathered, eyes wide and excited. Down the road she saw her father's broad shoulders amid the small knot of hurrying men moving steadily on toward the castle.
  Daera stared at her neighbors as they watched him go and screamed, "Aid me! In the name of the High Dale, aid! He'll be killed!"
  They knew her as she shuddered, whooped breath back into her bruised chest, and staggered upright again. Pity was in some eyes, and rising anger in others. But at her cry, men looked away or shook their heads sadly, and women backed away.
  "They've magic, lass."
  "Aye, strong magic. We dare not..."
  Tears were rolling down her cheeks now, but Daera wiped them away impatiently and ran grimly back to one of the bodies to snatch up a fallen sword and pluck a dagger from a belt.
  She shook hair out of her eyes with a despairing snarl and rose to look around, hefting the sword. It was much too heavy; it was all she could do to hold the tip higher than her hands. She thrust the dagger through the bunched cloth at her hip, not caring what happened to the rags she wore, and used both hands to raise the blade, laying it back on her shoulder.
  When she looked down the road again, her father's striding figure was much smaller. Would she be able to catch up with him in time?
  In time to see him die? Daera shuddered, furiously blinking away fresh tears, and then saw men near her. She looked around wildly.
  Old eyes met her own. She saw pride, and anger that matched hers, and shining hope in them.
  Fourno, fiveold men of the dale, graybeards she'd known as long as she could remember, leaning on fences to talk and smoke pipes, and shuffling into the inn for a tankard. Except on their chins, their hair was sparse, and they wore clothes as ragged as her own.
  But in their hands shone old, lovingly cared for weapons, swords worn thin with years of sharpening, gleaming now, and axes with long curving blades. One carried a halberd in spiked gauntlets so old and worn that she could see his bony fingers through rents in the leather.
  "We're with ye," one said simply.
  "Aye," another spoke through a moustache that almost hid his missing teeth. "Like in the old days. We'll follow a Mulmar to the death, for the High Dale."
  "My thanks," Ylyndaera said thickly, fresh tears streaming. Then she added hurriedly, almost sobbing, "Come, then, before it's too late!"
  She hurried down the road. The graybeards trotted and shuffled and kept up with her. Some even had the breath to call out as they passed cottages.
  "To arms!"
  "For the dale!"
  "Out, lads! To arms!"
  One man looked out his door, amazed, and yelled, "Ho, Baerus! Where be ye off to?"
  The old man just behind Daera grinned ferociously and waved his sword. "The high constable's free! An' we're following the maid, hereIrreph's lassto the castle, to see to the running of these Wolves!"
  There were roars of approval, and Daera saw men with pitchforks and axes running to catch up.
  "For the dale!" another of the graybeards bellowed. The answering roar drowned out the fit of coughing that shook him a moment later.
  "For the running of the Wolves!" a younger voice roared. Daera looked around. She was leading a band now.
  "Death," she cried, "to all Wolves!"
  "Death!" they roared back at her in excitement and anger, and swept down toward the castle.

12
Blood in the Marketplace

  The sun shone down brightly. Eyes drawn into slits against its unaccustomed brightness, Irreph looked around his dale like a hungry hawk seeking dinner. In quick, sharp glances he noted changes without slowing. The chain grew warmer in his hands. Out in the sun, away from the damp, he stretched and stood taller, and felt better than he had in a long, long time.
  Which was just too bad for the two Wolves who happened to cross his path.
  The first drew steel and tried to charge in and gut him. Irreph swung his chains, danced aside, and swung them again. The man grunted, dropped his blade from numbed, broken fingers, and never had time to pick it up again.
  The second drew sword, too, then turned and ran, crying the alarm. He got about three houses away before a goodwife hobbled hurriedly down her steps, fell in front of him, and reached out carefully to trip him with her cane as he ran past. Irreph did not give him time to get up.
  "Irreph," she said eagerly, as he helped her to her feet. "Lord, are you come to lead us to war?"
  Mulmar looked down and smiled through his mask of dust, sweat, and blood. "My thanks, Ireavyn. I am. Tell all, if you will, to bring arms as soon as they are able. I march on the castle."
  "Alone?"
  "Aye," he said grimly. Her face fell.
  "And, Ireavyn, I'm your high constable, not your lord. No lord rules in the High Dale."
  She nodded almost sadly and looked around. No Wolf was watching, but over Mulmar's shoulder her face lit.
  "Look! Folk have risen, Irreph! They come! They come!"
  She stared harder and her jaw dropped open. "Is that your Daera with them?"
  Irreph whirled, almost felling the goodwife with an errant swinging shackle.
  "Gods!" he cursed as he saw Ylyndaera's white face amid all the old men. Their eyes met, and the high constable suddenly discovered something wet was blurring his eyes.
  The sun. Aye, the sun. He ran to meet his daughter, love and pride rising almost to choke him as he went.
  * * * * *
  The high constable of the High Dale walked slowly toward the castle, his chains in his hand. A crowd gathered in his wake, and those who bore weapons grew steadily in numbers. Beside him was his daughter, Ylyndaera, and behind them walked many old men of the dale, gray of beard and snow-white or thin of hair, with wrinkled old faces and stiff old limbs. They clutched weapons green or rust-red or worn thin with age, but carried themselves like old lions looking for a fight. Pride, joy, and a certain reckless defiance showed in their faces, and their eyes glinted when they looked ahead to where death awaited. At long last they were going to strike back.
  A tyrant's banner still floated from the battlements ahead. An outlander still called himself lord of their dale, took tax coins from deep in their pockets, slew them at his pleasure, and told them what to do. Enoughas some forgotten warrior had said ages ago and half the Realms awaywas enough. At long last they were going to war.
  The road under their marching feet grew wider and cobbled. For this time of day, the way was strangely empty.
  Word had spread, and the dalefolk hid and watched, or found what arms they could and came out to join Irreph. The Wolves must have gone to the castle for ordersthe marchers could see the glint and gleam of helmed heads on the walls, looking downfor none showed themselves as the ragged but growing band of dalefolk approached the dark bulk of the High Castle.
  The castle rose like a tall stone ship out of the houses in the center of the dale. A steep-sided earthen ditch surrounded the rocky ridge on which the fortress stood. A cobbled road descended steeply from its forekeep gate down to a large open space, the dale's marketplace. Since the arrival of Longspear, a dark, gaunt double gibbet had arisen in the center of this space. The great open well, once freely used by all, had been covered, its locked pumps used for the Wolves and their horses only.
  Angry murmurs rose from the crowd as the dalefolk came out into the marketplace and saw these hated reminders of unwanted rule. The murmurs became a roar as they saw what awaited beyond.
  Where the cobbled road to the castle rose out of the beaten earth, a line of Wolves stood in full coat-of-plate battle armor gleaming silver and deep blue in the sun. Swords and daggers were at their sides, and in their hands they held the long black-shafted lances they were wont to use from horseback. They barred the way grimly, the lances coming down like a forest of leveled, waiting teeth as Irreph strode steadily toward them.
  Cold eyes met angry ones. The crowd came to a slow, milling halt just beyond the sharp, steady-held lance points. The sun beat down on them all.
  The leader of the Wolves with the lances was Kalam Bloodsword, a veteran of Zhentil Keep's armies. He looked coldly at the angry dalefolk and kept all fear from his flat, commanding voice.
  "Mulmar, go back to your work at the mill or perish, in the name of Longspear, lord in this place. Go back now, and take these old men with you, or we shall slay you all before highsun."
  Silence was his answer. No one moved.
  Kalam glared at them all, looking slowly from left to right, at old men with fire in their eyes, a young maidMulmar's brat?and the man in chains, who looked back at the Wolf with death in his eyes.
  Kalam cleared his throat. "You'll all miss your meals, and your loved ones will wait for you in vainforever. Think on this and go back to your homes."
  Still, no one moved. Kalam blazed a silent curse at this Mulmar for somehow getting free of the wizards' spells, and added another at the mages. For all their arrogance, wizards were flighty, careless fools one could never rely on save to send one speedily to the grave.
  "Go now, all of you," he said, keeping his voice level. "Or we shall put Irreph Mulmar to the death, here and now. The stain of his blood will be on all of your hearts."
  "Stand with me," Irreph said almost gently. "Stand fast, folk of the dale."
  They stood. Long moments dragged past. Kalam made another silent curse, added a prayer to Tempus, and motioned his line of men forward.
  They pushed forward to take Mulmar. Practiced old hands struck aside lance points and ducked under the long shafts. Mulmar raised his chains to his shoulder, ready to flail. The Wolves, trained not to let foes who might have knives get in under wielded polearms, halted and stepped back.
  "Stand back!" Kalam roared. "Any who bar our way will hang as outlaws! Back!"
  He drew his sword and strode forward. Old men with eyes and faces like cold stone stepped into his path, weapons raised. Kalam whipped his blade back and forth like a man threshing grain. It clanged against old axes and short swords and pitchforks until sparks flew and the numbed hands of their wielders wavered. Some fell back.
  Kalam, too, stepped back and glared across the small open space he'd created. "Get back, and go to your homes!" he ordered sternly. "I want no blood shed this day. What gain will you see, if you lie dead here in the marketplace before highsun?" He looked around at cold and silent faces. "Go back!"
  No one moved. Deliberately Kalam sheathed his sword, stepped back into the line, and took up a lance.
  "Lances down!" he ordered, and the line of sharp points was leveled again. Glittering death took a step forward. And then another.
  A stone fell by Kalam's feet as if from the empty sky. The leader of the Wolves glared at the mob angrily. "Who threw that?"
  Another stone sprang past his eyes and rattled down a shield behind him. Kalam Bloodsword aimed his lance in the direction from which the stone had come and charged forward with a yell. The line of Wolves followed.
  The lance tore through a shoulder, forced a second man to leap aside, and stuck solidly into a wooden shield that was as gray with age as the bearded man who held it. The old man staggered under the impact but gathered his feet under him defiantly and set himself against Kalam's shoving.
  Kalam snarled and gained a step. Then another. A man with red hair joined the graybeard, then, and the lance went no farther.
  "Make way!" Kalam spat. The red-haired man met his eyes steadily and shoved .. . and it was the leader of the Wolves who was forced back. A low, murmuring roar of approval rose around him. For the first time since he'd come to this place between the mountains, Kalam was truly afraid.
  Another stone came winging right toward him. He lowered his head hastily and the rock struck his helm a solid, ringing blow. Kalam snarled and jerked the lance up and down roughly, trying to tear it free.
  Folk were moving now, looking over their shoulders and scattering to the right and left. Good! Reinforcements had arrived, no doubt, and not a moment too soon.
  Pushing forward into view from the rear of the crowd were two men in worn, nondescript, bloodstained leathers whom he'd never seen before, with naked swords in their hands. An old man with an older war axe in his hands followed them, grinning from ear to ear. The first two men fixed eyes on the leader of the Wolves. As he met their gazes, Kalam's blood ran cold. They meant his death.
  The leader of the Wolves let go the lance and snatched at his sword. He got it out in time to strike aside the first reaching blade, but the man danced past, moving with Kalam's parry, and struck at him from behind.
  Kalam ducked and dodged, and grunted with the sudden pain brought by the second blade, running up under the edge of his breastplate. He reeled away, doubled up against the burning, stabbing pain, and found himself face-to-face with the graybearded veteran who'd stopped his lance. His blade swept up as he snarled, "Death!"
  "Aye," came the calm reply. "Yours."
  The short sword that stopped his own blade as if it had been driven against a stone wall leapt suddenly into his face, and Kalam of the Wolves had time for only a gurgle or two before he fell and was trampled in the general surge forward. The last, fading thing he heard was a voice far behind him yelling, "Freedom for the dale! Death to the Zhent Wolves!"
  * * * * *
  Shoulder to shoulder, Heladar Longspear and Angruin Myrvult Stormcloak stood on the battlements, looking down as the mob below surged forward and the lancers were overwhelmed.
  As their roar of victory rose and the ragged band surged triumphantly up the cobbled road, Longspear ordered curtly, "Now. Break their charge."
  Guards around him hastened to the wall, loaded heavy crossbows in their hands. Their bolts fell like rain on the road below, and villagers fell backor fell transfixed, to lie crumpled on the ground like crows slain around a guarded granary.
  "And now?" Lord Longspear said, looking old. "Those are my people we're killing."
  The mage who called himself Stormcloak turned cold eyes on Heladar. "What of it?"
  "I'd rather not rule an open graveyard," Longspear replied coldly. "Who knows where it'll end, now that the bloodletting's begun? There's not a one left we can trust, and if we slay them all, what do I rule then?"
  "A strategic pass that we can hold with twice our strength in two days, by means of the gate," Stormcloak told him. "If it's rabble you want to rule over, are there no prisons in Zhentil Keep? Are there no outlaws in these mountains? Manshoon's orders will bring all he wants to let out or be rid of, and if we spread the word in Cormyr and Sembia that there are hill farms for the taking, we'll soon have the dale as crowded as you like, Lord Longspear."
  He turned away from Longspear and gave an order to the Overswords who stood behind them. "I want twenty full-armored menlances and blades, all of themmounted and ready in the courtyard as fast you can get them there."
  The Overswords looked at him, and at the magnificently armored back of Lord Longspear. The back did not turn, and Stormcloak snarled, "Move at my orders, you thickheaded orc-sons! When I signal, send them out. They're to ride down the mob at full gallop, slaying any who resist. Longspear, you lead them."
  The lord of the dale did not move or reply. The mage snarled and advanced on the Overswords, cursing them and raising threatening hands in gestures of spellcasting, until they wheeled and ran down the stairs. Men on the walls around them reloaded their crossbows and carefully looked away. Stormcloak gestured at Heladar's back.
  The Lord of the High Dale straightened rather stiffly and turned about. His eyes were clouded and distant, his expression set. Stormcloak looked at him in satisfaction and said, "Go down and lead your men, Lord. Ride to victory."
  The charmed lord tramped across to the stair in his gleaming armor. As he passed, Stormcloak considerately thrust the visor of his helm down, covering his set face.
  Then the mage glared at the men all around him and ordered, "Loose your bolts, then leave your bows here and go down to the courtyard to await my orders."
  The Sword who commanded those on the battlements said hesitantly, "Leave our bows? What"
  The mage wheeled on him. "Address me as Lord Angruin, if you would live!"
  All around them, bows were grounded, and silent Wolves hastened to the stairs.
  * * * * *
  "Back!" Belkram and Itharr shouted together, waving their swords. "Back! What good do you for the dale, by going forward and dying?"
  Crossbow bolts, fired straight out from the castle walls to carry as far as possible, hissed down around the shouting Harpers. Dalefolk groaned and staggered as they were struck. Here and there men fell, pitching onto their faces to lie still or writhing weakly in the mud.
  Men were running, now, back across the marketplace, leaving the dead behind, revealing the bloody, trampled bodies of Wolves as they receded.
  "No!" Irreph roared as the two Harpers came up to him. "What have you done, you fools? Once we've scattered, they'll ride us down one by one!"
  "High Constable," Belkram said, meeting Ylyndaera's frightened gaze, "we must fall back now and rally the people in the shops and alleys around the edge of this open space, or we'll all go down under whatever magic those wizards can hurl!"
  Even as he spoke, there was a flash of amber light, and smoke curled up from the foot of the castle road. In a spot that had been empty a moment before, Angruin Stormcloak stood grandly in his dark robes. He laughed, his cold mirth ringing out loudly across the corpse-littered marketplace, and raised his hands.
  Stones flung at him fell short. Mulmar cursed and swung around to shield his daughter, picking her up at a lumbering run with the two Harpers, back into an alley mouth. "We haven't a bow among us," the high constable said bitterly. "They took them all, and most who could wield them were maimed, cut down, or hanged here in the square."
  "You had a lot of bowmen?" Itharr asked as they crouched together against a wall.
  Irreph looked at him. "All my armsmen," he said quietly, cold death in his eyes again. He looked across the square at the wizard and whispered harshly, "All of them."
  The air crackled lightning then, and men screamed as the blue-white bolt spat and snapped down the street they stood in, dancing them with its fury until it passed and they fell burned and lifeless to the ground. As the lightning faded, men of the dale showed themselves at doors and alley mouths, waving weapons angrily.
  Stormcloak laughed again and raised his hands with nonchalant, almost clinical grace. This time a ball of fire roared down another street. As the screams died away, the strong smell of cooked flesh was borne across the marketplace by a rising breeze.
  Men began to flee, running down the streets and alleys in blind flight. The two Harpers looked at each other helplessly, then at Mulmar.
  "I will not retreat," Irreph said slowly. "They will not take me this time."
  "We'll stand with you," Belkram told him.
  "No, you will not," Irreph Mulmar said in a voice of steel. "As I am high constable, hear and obey me. You will take my daughter, both of you. Guard and keep her safe, and get her away to safetyto Azoun's court or to a lady called Mineira, a healer, in Saerb. She can get word, via the Harpers, to the mage Elminster of Shadowdale. Ylyndaera must live to rule the dale in years to come, when these serpents have fallen and been swept away."
  "We are Harpers, sir," Itharr said, "and we came here seeking Elminster, who has left Shadowdale. We think he has come here."
  "Here?" Mulmar said, rising. "Then we may be saved yet."
  As he spoke, two bolts of force, white teardrops with wavering trails of light, raced across the marketplace like tiny falling stars to strike Stormcloak. The mage roared in surprise and pain, and staggered back.
  Another pair of missiles sought him. This time the watching Mulmars and Harpers saw their source: an old man in tattered, dirty robes, crouching amid the brine barrels in front of the fishmonger's stall. Beside him was a woman in leathers, a sword in her hand.
  "That's one of the Knights of Myth Drannor," Itharr said excitedly. "Sharantyr!"
  "Then that," Belkram said slowly, indicating the man with the wand, "must be Elminster."
  Ylyndaera burst into sudden tears. "I knew there were gods," she said. "I knew they'd hear me!"

13
When Wizards War

  Angruin Stormcloak snarled in anger. They had a mage! So this was no simple uprising, but the work of a powerful enemyperhaps meddling mages from Sembia or Cormyr, but more likely from within the Brotherhood. This fool attacking him would doubtless be some apprentice given a wand and told to prove himself, but still. . .
  Stormcloak cast fire again. This time, the air in front of him turned golden, there came a melodious chiming as of many bells, and the scent of fresh-baked bread wafted pastbut no flaming death blasted those who stood against him. His magic had gone wild. Again.
  He stood alone, facing enemies across an open place, armed only with spells he could not rely on. Not a prudent situation.
  Angruin turned and beckoned to those waiting in the castle with both his arm and his will. The thread of magic held. He reached silently down it and forced Lord Longspear, mounted at their head, to roar the charge and urge his mount forward. Then the Zhentarim wizard scrambled down off the road, to the side of the marketplace where the fewest dalefolk waited to storm back at him.
  A moment later, he heard the angry thunder of many plunging hooves, and the Wolves swept down from the castle into the marketplace, scattering to level their lances and spur into the mouths of streets and alleys. For a breath or two the world was all snorting horses, creaking leather, and jangling harnesses. Then the black-armored Wolves were in among the buildings, and the ringing of steeland the shriekingbegan. Satisfied, Stormcloak stood watching as screaming men fled and fell. The folk of the dale would pay in blood for their defiance.
  War came to a certain lane on charging hooves. The lances of two Wolves flashed down as they made for the mouth of the street, bellowing laughter and claiming specific targets as their kills.
  The two Harpers there, crouched against a wall in front of Irreph and Ylyndaera Mulmar, rose smoothly, blades flashing. Belkram set his teeth and struck the lance of the first Wolf skyward.
  As the lance flew up, Itharr leapt under it to tumble the Wolf off his horse with a kick. The second Wolf rode over him without slowing, leaning out to drive his lance through the naked high constable. As the glittering point swept down, Irreph put Daera behind him with one strong hand and raised his chains with the other.
  Belkram's blade came down hard on the butt of that lance. The lance's tip leapt up and over Irreph's shoulder to skirl along the stone wall behind him in a shower of sparks.
  Then the Wolf was past, hooves thundering down the lane, and Itharr was rising out of the dust with his dagger dark with blood, letting fall the visor of the first Wolf. "Now!" Belkram bellowed, stepping out into the marketplace and waving his blade. "Strike them down in the narrow places! For Mulmar, and freedom!" Roars and waved weapons answered him; dalefolk were still up and fighting.
  Across the open space, the Zhentarim wizard snarled and raised his hand. Belkram ducked hastily back into the lane.
  An instant later, the old man on his knees among the barrels smote Stormcloak again with a pair of magic missiles, spoiling his spellcasting. The wizard's scream of rage could be heard clearly over the shouting and the thunder of hooves.
  Then a mounted Wolf waving a long, dark mace was thundering across the marketplace toward the lane.
  "Is that Elminster?" Itharr yelled as the two Harpers snatched up a lance and swung it together, like a great broom, to sweep this third Wolf out of his saddle.
  "I think so," Belkram called back as the man crashed helplessly to earth, boot heels bouncing. Itharr raced in to leap atop him, and their roll together was brief and brutal.
  Long training made Belkram look back at where the second Wolf had gone, just in time to see him spurring back, lance first. Irreph was turning to face him, chains flying. Daera hadn't fled and now could only stare helplessly at the lance leaping at her throatand scream.
  Belkram shouted and ran, knowing he'd not be in time.
  Itharr threw his sword, then his dagger after it. They flashed end over end through the air.
  Irreph shoved his daughter hard and she fell. He stepped forward to swing his chains and smash the lance tip aside, but it was already dipping and turning to follow Ylyndaera's plunge.
  A shuttered window on the other side of the lane flew open, and a red-cheeked goodwife shrieked defiance and hurled a chamber pot out at the galloping Wolf. It struck the side of his face squarely, whipping his head around as it shattered and breaking his helm, skull, and neck all in one dull crash. The falling body stopped both of Itharr's weapons on its way to the ground.
  The goodwife raised horrified hands to her mouth and screamed. Her eyes rolled back in her head, and she fell back out of view.
  The two Harpers ran to Ylyndaera, who was picking herself up gingerly, spitting road dirt and holding her scraped hands painfully curled.
  "Go hide, girl!" the high constable roared, shaking her. Then he looked up at the two men in leathers and snapped, "Take her somewhere safe!"
  "There is no such place," Itharr told him quietly.
  "I will not run from this," Daera told her father in a trembling voice. "What good is life to me if you are killed after I turn my back and run away? I'm staying!" She went to the nearest fallen Wolf and tugged a belt dagger from its sheath. It glinted in her hand as she scowled at the galloping Wolves out in the marketplace.
  Then she turned to her father, face white and hands trembling. "Let's kill us some Wolves," she managed to say before she turned away and was very sick.
  "Our swords are needed!" Belkram bellowed as Itharr tore his weapons from the fallen Wolf. "If the gods will it so, we'll meet again after the bloodletting's done!"
  The high constable nodded, holding his sobbing daughter tenderly with hands that still trailed chains. The two Harpers clapped Irreph's shoulder and ran out into the marketplace.
  Bodies lay everywhere, and not a few of them wore the armor of the Wolves. Their surviving comrades were milling about the streets and yards around the market, hacking and howling. After the initial easy butchery done by their lances and the plunging hooves of their horses, they'd found themselves surrounded, often isolated, and lacking room to readily turn their mounts. Wolves were now losing as many struggles as they won in the alleys. Old men and young boys alike leapt on them from windows and balconies above, or toppled barrels under their horses. If a Wolf fell, there was a general roar and rush, and he seldom had the time to get up again.
  Stormcloak saw that the only route he could hurl spells down without slaying Wolves as well as dalefolk was the lane that had emptied when Irreph Mulmar snatched up someone smaller and dove headlong through a window.
  He also saw two men in leathers coming for him, blades out, and knew he dare not trust in his spells to bring them down. He set his will and called Longspear back from a bloody fray far down a side street.
  The Lord of the High Dale, his armor spattered and dented, spurred his snorting, wild-eyed mount back into the marketplace, turned it with ruthless strength, and rode hard at the two men, pulling the curved horn from his belt as he came.
  The call to "retreat and rally" rang out. To a Zhentilar, ignoring a signal horn meant death; to a man they turned and fought or galloped their way back toward the open market. At their heels ran or limped the folk of the dale, closing in again around the edges of the trampled, corpse-strewn marketplace.
  They were in time to see Longspear lean out of his saddle and swing mightily with his great gore-bathed warhammer at a man on foot who wore dusty leathers and a grim expression. The man dove and rolled aside as nimbly as any acrobat and came up circling, sword flashing.
  Another Wolf lancer charged at the man in leathers from behind, but two white stars whistled from a shop front to strike the soldier down. The horse was riderless when it thundered past the man with the sword.
  Another man in leathers was running in at the lord's other side. Longspear jerked his reins about savagely, but the man's sword was already leaping for his throat. With a shriek of straining metal, the warhammer met the striking steel just in front of the lord's impassive helm and turned it aside, but the man dropped it and dove in, hurling himself at the lord's ribs and upper leg.
  The horse bucked. Armored arms flailed for balance, and Lord Longspear crashed to earth. The first man he'd struck at was waiting. His dagger went in under the lord's helm with the speed of a striking snake.
  A great, savage roar went up from the watching folk, and they were pouring out into the marketplace, running amid the still-gathering Wolves. The dalefolk leapt and swung weapons as if driven by the gods themselves. The Zhent warriors fought to stay in the saddles of bucking mounts and laid about themselves desperately with their own blades. The red, shouting chaos of Tempus, god of war, reigned over the marketplace.
  "I'm missing something!" Irreph Mulmar snarled in frustration, hearing the tumult outside the shuttered shop he'd plunged into. He thrust his struggling daughter into the arms of the fat woman who sold rope, cord, and thread there. "Ulraea, watch her for me, will you? And keep her here!"
  "Aye, sir," Ulraea began doubtfully, but Ylyndaera twisted out of her grasp like swirling wind and leapt across the room toward the window her father had brought her in by.
  "By all the gods, girl, forgive me," he said, chains rattling, and clipped her on the jaw as she ducked past.
  Ylyndaera Mulmar continued gracefully, face first, to the floor and lay there unmoving. Irreph snatched her up by the shoulders; her head hung limply. Without pause he swung her into Ulraea's arms and said, "Just hold her here, will you? She'll be right again, all too soon. I must be out there!"
  He whirled, shackles gleaming, and plunged back out through the window. One of its shutters broke off as he burst out into the battle, to hang dangling in his wake.
  * * * * *
  Stormcloak swayed amid the milling horses. He clutched his head and his gut, feeling wretchedly sick and wincing at the splitting pain in his head, all at the same time. Gods! So that was what it was like to be linked to the mind of a man when he's killed. Ohhh, gods above!
  * * * * *
  When Irreph charged out into the marketplace, a slim figure ran with him: a long-haired, beautiful woman in tattered leather armor, the one who'd earlier been with the wizard with the wand. A long sword gleamed in her hand. Irreph frowned. What had the Harpers called her?
  One of the Knights of Myth Drannor, they'd said. Irreph shot another look at her; she winked back. He'd heard of that band of adventurerswho in the Dales hadn't?and she certainly looked as if she knew how to handle a blade. He glanced back. There was no sign of the old man with the wand now. Elminster or not, he'd vanished.
  Irreph began to think, for the first time that day, that the High Dale could be his again. He just might live to see the last of these accursed Zhents gone. He bounded forward and swung his chains with a savage grin, smashing the nearest Wolf from his saddle.
  The man fell on the other side of his horse. He staggered up and got out his sword before Irreph could reach him. The Wolf's broad blade swung up, and the high constable had to leap back. His chains were too slow and heavy to stop the flashing steel of a good bladesman in time.
  Then a slim sword came past his shoulder to his rescue, taking the Wolf's blade aside. Its wielder fenced with the Wolf in a dazzling exchange of cuts and parries before sliding her blade in with silken ease through one eyehole of the Wolf's helm. The lady Knight! Sharantyr, that was her name!
  Irreph turned to her. "My thanks, Sharantyr of Myth Drannor," he said formally, as if he wore court robes and not merely hair and dirt. "Welcome to the High Dale."
  "The honor is mine, High Constable," she replied calmly, saluting him with her bloodied blade. "Shall we stand together awhile?"
  Irreph smiled and indicated the fray before them with an offering hand. She laughed and ran forward.
  The next Wolf was already beset by four dalefolk wielding pitchforks and clubs. Sharantyr ran her sword point into the back of his knee, and he fell from his saddle in pain. His attackers did not give him time to moan very long.
  They ran on, Irreph bearing to the left around the main press of horses and struggling men. "The castle!" he yelled. "We must get at the wizards. Without them, these Blackhelms are just so many swordsmen."
  Sharantyr nodded, and they ran at another Wolf in their way. Irreph's chains smashed the man from his saddle without pause. Beyond, they saw the Zhentarim wizard who'd hurled fire and lightning standing at the end of the castle road, in obvious pain.
  Sharantyr plucked a dagger from her boot and threw it, all in one smooth motion.
  Had they been closer, she might have struck the man down. As it was, he saw death flashing through the air toward him and stepped aside. They both saw him shake his head, look around, and back away. His hands moved and he was gone, vanished as if he had never been there.
  "The castle!" Irreph snarled again, and Sharantyr nodded. To their right, the two Harpers were hacking and thrusting like men possessed, leading the men of the dale against the Wolves. Pitchforks and daggers held by grim and trembling dale farmers were sending horses down in rolling agony or goading them to bolt, dumping their riders as they fled.
  Irreph determinedly smote another Wolf from his saddle with a sweep of his heavy chains. The high constable grabbed the reins of the terrified horse, hauled himself into the saddle by brute strength, and forced the animal's head around toward the castle.
  The horse snorted and bucked, plunging and twisting. Irreph hung on, his chains flailing the air. Sharantyr used her blade and voice to turn another horse aside. She ran along beside Irreph as the high constable's borrowed horse suddenly burst into a gallop toward the castle gates.
  There were Wolves in the way, those who'd fallen back to hold their line of retreat. Only one was mounted, and his horse reared and gave way. Irreph drove through the gap, flailing with his chains at the Wolves around him. On his right, Sharantyr's glittering blade leapt and cut like a shuttle on the loom of some mad weaver.
  A last shouting Wolf fell under the wild hooves of Irreph's borrowed horse, and they were through. By main strength the high constable kept his mount aimed up the road to the castle. Sharantyr sprinted along behind him and to his right, sword out.
  Quarrels hissed around them, falling like rain, as they drew nearer to the towering stone walls. Ahead, the gates stood open for the Wolves' return. Irreph leaned low over the neck of the horse and spurred it on.
  His mount stiffened under him. A crossbow bolt had struck its flank. It started to rear and spasmed again as another quarrel struck its neck just in front of Irreph's face. The world reared and rocked, then the high constable felt himself dragged from the saddle, back and to the right. He fell heavily on the cobbles in a rattling of chains, beside Sharantyr.
  She was clutching the chain she'd hauled him down by, and breathing hard. "Come!" she gasped, as a fresh shower of quarrels sought their lives hungrily.
  The twisting, rolling horse was struck again, but its agonized bulk shielded them from a bolt or two. Sharantyr led their charge up to the gates. Grim-faced Wolves were waiting for them, blades and shields raised.
  * * * * *
  As Stormcloak cast his spell, he could see the naked, wild-eyed high constable and that woman heading directly for him. All around, men were yelling or screaming or dying. In an instant they were gone as the teleport whirled him away.
  Stormcloak was suddenly somewhere quieter. The castle, yes, butgods! He was falling, only empty air under his boots! Where?
  He didn't have time for any more thought before he slammed hard into something that collapsed under him with a human shriek and a crumpling, metallic sound.
  Stormcloak lay still, fighting for air. Under him, an unfortunate guard lay unmoving. His magic had gone awry, dropping him from at least three man-heights in the air. He shook his head and struggled grimly to his feet. Another spell gone wrong, and this day was not over, not for a long time yet.
  Wolves watched openmouthed as Angruin Stormcloak rose stiffly from atop the crumpled body of the guard. His brow glistened with sweat and his face was white. He did not look back at the man who'd been beneath him.
  A simple light spell had gone crazily wrong this morn. Then a fireball had failed in the marketplace, and now this. What was happening?
  Angruin Myrvult strode toward his nearest spellbook. Seeing his face, Wolves scrambled aside to keep out of his way.
  * * * * *
  An old serving man with a battle-axe in his hands stood leaning against a wall and panting. He was covered with blood, some of it his own, and his leg hurt abominably where some Wolf had slashed it before dying. His head hurt, and his chest tightened in stabbing agony from time to time.
  He'd never before felt such pain in his life as this rending hurt within him, but he leaned on the wall, holding the comfortable heaviness of the axe in his hands, and was very happy.
  Out in the open space in front of him, Wolves were dying; many lay dead already. His friends were driving the Zhentilar warriors out! A few old men and two handfuls of untutored goodwives, lads, and farmhands were beating Zhent Blackhelms! Even in his proud days, he and his brothers-in-arms had fled from Zhents, or kept civil and quiet and as far away as possible in taverns and inns. And now he was beating them, he and his friends! The axe in his hands had bitten short the lives of eight Wolves already today, and if the wizards stayed away, the men of the dale would win the day yet.
  His eyes were suddenly wet, and he set his lips and looked around the marketplace in pride, seeing old friends and others he knew groaning on the ground or sprawled still and silent. The blood price had been high and the day was not won yet, but by Tempus, the folk of the High Dale had stood proud this day!
  He growled as the pain took him again, then turned the sound into a shout. "For the Dale!" he roared, as he had heard those two brave Harper lads cry earlier. "For freedom!"
  He swung the axe around his head and started to run, lurching and staggering as he wrestled with the hammering pain in his chest. There were Wolves still standing in his sight, still work to be done. "For the dale!" he cried again, wildly, as his running feet brought him to the Zhents. He took a sword blow on his raised axe and blundered on into the Wolf who'd swung at him, knocking the armsman down. A farmer who'd been fencing with that Wolf, scythe against blade, grinned at him for an instant and stabbed down with the scythe. The Wolf's scream turned wet and bubbly before it died away.
  The old man raised his axe, roared again, and went on to the next Wolf. The men of the High Dale were earning a victory, blow by bloody blow, and he meant to see that they got it.
  * * * * *
  "Not too old yet for such games, are ye?" Elminster asked himself as he sprang out of alley shadows to the empty saddle of a wandering, riderless horse.
  The beast snorted and neighed in alarm, bucking and twisting its head around. Elminster hauled himself up into the saddle with grim, iron-hard fingers and answered himself, "Nay... see? Look ye!"
  The horse bugled. Elminster let it dance under him as battle raged in the marketplace ahead. Few horses were left now. From the castle came the sound of horns blowing the same call he'd heard earlier: the retreat and rally.
  He'd have to move quickly or they'd all be in his way. Elminster crouched low in the saddle, grinned at the thought of how long it had been since he'd last done this, and set the horse into a gallop.
  It hurled itself forward, putting all its fear into flight, and burst through the running, milling mob with only a few shouts and a near miss or two. Then he was charging up the road to the castle gates, beard streaming behind him, a few crossbow bolts whistling past.
  * * * * *
  In the fray, Itharr thrust a Wolf through the throat and turned to Belkram, ignoring the spray of blood that drenched him. "That is Elminster, isn't it?"
  Belkram nodded, teeth shining in a sudden smile. "Definitely."
  Itharr wrenched a shield from the Wolf he'd just unhorsed and slain. "Let's go, then. After him!"
  Belkram looked about. They'd cleared a little space around them, Wolves falling back warily before the blades of the two madmen in leather. He smiled at them and advanced.
  Uneasily they gave way, and he moved to stand shoulder to shoulder with Itharr, who'd taken up the shield. Crouched together behind its angled protection, the Harpers hastened up the road to the castle.
  Bolts thudded into the shield. Some snarled across the curving metal and were turned aside. Others stuck fast, dealing numbing blows to the arms beneath the shield. One pierced through, but its gleaming tip stopped a handwidth short of the two sweating Harpers. They traded rueful glances and hurried on.
  Belkram kept a wary eye behind, blade ready, but the Wolves were too busy staying alive, as they fell back toward the castle, to chase two men already halfway up the road to the gates.
  "Storm did promise us adventure," Itharr said dryly. A quarrel struck the shield sharply, jarring them both, and glanced away.
  "I didn't think just catching up with a hundreds-of-years-old wizard would be this exciting," Belkram replied, "whether he was a trouble-gatherer or no. Well, I've been wrong before."
  They were laughing together at that like crazed men as they came to the gates and found the high constable of the dale flailing away with blood-smeared chains manacled to his wrists, holding three battered Wolves at bay as the lady ranger Sharantyr fenced with them. A trail of blood and trampled, moaning guardsmen led from the gates to the courtyard beyond, where a riderless horse was rearing and screaming, lashing out with its hooves at the Wolves who tried to calm it. Elminster was, as usual, nowhere to be seen.

14
Doom Comes to the High Castle

  Elminster of Shadowdale, once an archmage of Myth Drannor and now and forever one of Mystra's Chosen, clung to the reins as the horse moved powerfully under him, its neck strong and warm in front of his nose, its mane whipping at his face. He had time to wonder what in Mystra's name he was doing here, with quarrels whipping and humming like angry wasps through the air all around him. He also found time to shrug and grin; this was not a new thought.
  A breath later, as the horse carried him away from the clash of steel and the cries of men, he found time to answer himself. He was here simply because he was who he was. This was the way he took life, making of it what best pleased him: a tapestry as rich and deep and colorful as he could manage, much longer than most ever have the chance to weave. His tapestry, whose great weight of years all too often hung by a single thread. Because he dared it so and would not have it otherwise.
  As it hung right now. Elminster crouched low as a quarrel flashed by very close on his right, and saw the set, grim faces of angry guards growing rapidly larger ahead. Thinking on his recent conclusions about life, he told himself aloud, "My, aren't we high and mighty today, hmmm?"
  Another quarrel hummed past close by his ear, and Elminster realized suddenly that he very much wanted to go on living, even if all magic was lost to him forever.
  There was so much still to see, to read, to write, to do ... and what a great way he was going about trying to cling to life, plunging himself into the thick of a battle between Zhentarim and desperate dalefolkand, without his spells, advancing alone on a castle held against him!
  He laughed so hard at that thought, he lost his grip on one rein and had to grab almost blindly for the horse's mane. Just then the hooves of his galloping mount struck a pocket of loose stones and slid, just a little. The horse bobbed and leapt on, straight at the guards, and the old man in tattered robes on its back made a hurried, ungraceful journey to the trodden turf beside the road.
  The landing drove the breath from Elminster's lungs. He had only enough strength left to turn the violence of his fall into a roll, forward and to the right, down slope. He kept on rolling, hoping no sword would come seeking him before he could stand.
  As the world turned over and over, Elminster felt for the wand that hurled magic missiles. From somewhere above, he heard the ringing protest of a horse, heavy hooves striking metal. After a short, broken-off cry, the dull thudding became the beat of hooves at speed, moving onward into the castle.
  Well, at least his horse had attacked the castle.
  Elminster came to his feet slowly, gulping air and holding the wand ready. The gates were still openhe could see the raised log portcullis from where he stoodand his horse had vanished within.
  Guards still stood there, aye, but fewer than before. To his left as he'd ridden up, they'd been facing Sharantyr and the naked giant with the chains, engaged but keeping them at bay, standing as a human wall across the open entrance to the High Castle. These experienced, trained Zhentilar, cold-eyed and wary, were surprised at seeing war brought to them and ragtag dalefolk doing well against their sword brothers, but they weren't in any panic, or hurt or weary. In their own minds, the Zhentilar were easily a match for a woman with a sword and a naked man swinging his slave chains.
  Now two Wolves at least were down, and the survivors were fighting in earnest to hold the gate. As Elminster climbed back up through the grass as fast as he could, a Wolf slowly went down, flailing chains beating a bell-like chorus on his battered helm. An arm hung uselessbroken, no doubtand blood made a sightless mask of the face as it turned, aware of nothing but darkening pain.
  Elminster spoke gently over his wand. The sinking Wolf jerked rapidly and collapsed. One of his fellows turned, saw Elminster, and raised his blade with a yell, only to stiffen as Sharantyr's blade flashed like a striking snake into his neck from the side.
  It swung on to parry another blow, before the incredulous Wolf spat blood at the climbing mage and started to fall.
  Elminster watched him topple and wondered briefly why it is that men find it necessary to spill each other's blood so often and for so many reasons. More than a thousand years after he'd first asked himself that question, he asked it now and found no new answer.
  An old conclusion still seemed the only answer he could see: It was, and is, the nature of the beast.
  He glanced back at the marketplace, with its turmoil of jostling men, swinging weapons, and sprawled bodies, and then at the castle, where men in armor were hurrying to positions, scrambling to bring more horse-lances to serve as a bristling wall against attack. Aye, the nature of the beast. He shivered for a moment, sickened by all the butchery. Then he shrugged, looked around again, and tried to grin. Oh, well. Once committed, one must see it all through to the end.
  Or, to quote an even older saying that was undoubtedly closer to the truth, he told himself as he darted over bodies of fallen gate guards into the High Castle, "Once a fool, always a fool."
  He grinned ruefully at that, even as his feet (beginning to ache, now; was he finally becoming too old for this? A fine time to realize that) carried him across smooth-worn flagstones puddled with old rainwater, into a forecourt. Ahead, at the other end of this open space, a line of Wolves was beginning to form across the archway that led into the main courtyard of the castle. They were battling his rearing, terrified mount in a confused, shouting mass of men, but there were plenty of weapons out and no safe way through them for one old man with a little magic.
  To his left and right, railless flights of stone steps climbed the inside of the castle's outer wall, leading to battlements above. The Old Mage looked around, saw no ready crossbows, and without hesitation mounted the stair on his right.
  He strode up as if he belonged in this place, calm and even arrogant of tread, only his tattered robes making him look any different from a hundred other haughty wizards in the Realms. No doubt a few such Zhentarim magelings held sway here. He'd face spellwork of real power before the day was out.
  Elminster had almost reached the battlements, where men were looking anxiously down into the marketplace and cranking their windlasses with whirring speed to reload the heavy crossbows propped or cradled in arms everywhere, when a great commotion arose from below.
  Everyone ran or craned necks to look, in time to see Irreph Mulmar fell the last staggering gate guard with a brutal, crushing sweep of his chains.
  Wolves shouted and ran to aim their crossbows down into the forecourt. The heavy weapons had to be supported on the stone parapet to fire steadily, and when so placed could not be tilted down steeply enough to menace the high constable below. One overenthusiastic Wolf lost his weapon trying to aim straight down the wall. The crossbow slid off the stone, eluding his grab, and pitched to the courtyard below, its shattering a crashing chord amid the shouting and running feet.
  A moment later some Wolves reached the stairs. Cradling their bows on their knees, standing bent over, they fired. Bows jerked and quarrels shot wildly down. Sharantyr sprinted in through their fire and spun hard to the right, to race up the same stairs Elminster had taken. She found herself looking up into the eyes of two Wolves hurriedly reloading their bows at the top of the stair.
  Elminster had gained the battlements moments before Irreph's dramatic entry and stood haughtily among Wolves who from long practice did not look directly at a wizard; the Zhentarim were quick indeed to take offense. He glided up behind the guards at the head of the stair, waited until they were in the frantic midst of reloading, then kicked hard at the backs of their knees.
  They fell in a clatter of armor and a riot of startled curses. Sharantyr boiled up the last few steps, and her blade found their throats before they could rise.
  Men on the battlements all around them shouted in astonished fury. Elminster turned to face them, wand in hand, wondering just whom to strike at first in the forest of angry Wolves. Many of the more distant warriors hadn't seen or heard the struggle on the stairs at all and were still leaning down into the forecourt, crossbows ready now, as Irreph mounted the stairs on the far side of the entry gate.
  Bows thrummed and spat. A rain of quarrels found the high constable before he'd taken four bounding strides. One ran through his upper arm and came out across his chest. Another pierced deep into his thigh, where it stood quivering. Irreph struggled on for two strides more, shuddering in pain, then fell onto the stairs, cursing.
  Elminster cast a glance over the walls and saw perhaps seven Wolves, no more, fleeing up the road to the gates, hotly pursued by a bleeding, pitchfork-waving rabbleall that was left of the folk of the dale.
  "Shar!" the Old Mage cried, as the lady ranger reached him and coolly ran her blade through the body of the nearest Wolf. The Zhentilar was still cursing, juggling a loaded bow and trying to draw steel, as he went down. "Clear this height if ye can. Throw their bows away, or stamp on them, or kick them down! They'll be the death of us if we don't!"
  Suiting action to his words, Elminster snatched up a nearby crossbow, triggered itthe quarrel ran into the flagstones a handspan in front of an onrushing Wolf, causing him to stumble and fall heavily with a startled oathand tipped it over the battlements to be lost below.
  Sharantyr overwhelmed the Wolf beside her with three quick slashes. The man reeled against the crenellations, clutching at his cut face and arm. Sharantyr snatched up his bow and fired it along the battlements into the chest of a guard who was just raising his own weapon. That crossbow in turn went off into the back of another Wolf, who screamed, staggered against the parapet, and was gone an instant later, leaving only a fading scream behind. The lady ranger flung her bow out over the parapet without looking and caught up her blade again to leap at the next Wolf.
  "Use your dagger, Old Mage!" she snarled over her shoulder. Elminster looked at her and then down at the dagger at his belt. Drawing it forth with some distaste, he buried it in the still-writhing warrior Sharantyr had slashed. The Wolf stiffened, groaned, and went on moaning and clutching his wounds. Hmmm. Not so good.
  Elminster looked behind him. There were few Wolves on this side of the gate. Below the walls, the ground fell away steeply in a tumble of rocks and scrub trees where no ragged band of farmers and merchants would mount an attack. Only two guards were running along the battlements toward him.
  Elminster used his wand again on the foremost one, then turned back to the still-writhing Wolf. As he struggled to heave the blindly flailing man over the parapet, the Wolf's scabbarded sword bobbed and waved under his nose.
  Elminster looked at the weapon, shrugged, and drew it out. He turned. The first rushing Wolf had slowed to a stagger, but the second was shouldering past the first to charge. Elminster fired the wand of magic missiles into the man's face. As the Zhent cried out and clutched at his eyes, Elminster leapt toward him and drove the point of his blade into the man's throat.
  It slid in with such hideous ease. He'd forgotten that. Elminster looked down in disgust at the blade he held, feeling ill. He remembered to look up, though, in time to meet the other Wolf's charge.
  Steel met steel. The man was strong, and in a fury of pain, and very good. Elminster managed two frantic parries before firing the wand into the man's open, snarling mouth.
  Blood spattered the Old Mage's hair and beard. Sickened, he turned away from what was left of the Wolf, a headless body still jerking its blade about in a grotesque dance, and strode back to the one he'd taken the sword from. The man was twitching more feebly now. Elminster sighed, caught hold of his legs, and tipped him up and over the battlements.
  Then he looked along the wall anxiously. Sharantyr was only one lass in leather armor, and he'd left her to fight alone for far too long.
  His jaw dropped. Dead Wolves lay sprawled everywhere, heaped on the parapet walk. More were draped along the parapets themselves. Far around the curve of the ramparts, Sharantyr was fencing with two frightened-looking Wolves. Behind them, another pair of Zhents were hastily working their windlasses to ready quarrels for her death.
  Elminster used his wand on them from afar, cast a look to his rightthere were no bowmen atop the inner wall or anywhere else that he could see, and judging by the sounds from below, the dalefolk had reached the forecourtand started running along the wall, swinging his sword to gain speed.
  Sharantyr twisted aside too slowly and took a cut across the back of her raised left arm above the elbow. Elminster heard her sob and then snarl, and fired his wand at the man attacking Shar.
  Sharantyr was tiring and in pain. Her long hair spun wildly about her as she panted and danced, the heavy ringing of steel loud in her ears as she traded blows with a Wolf who would not fall. They had no shields. Each blow and counterblow was taken on their blades with leaden, numbing force. Sharantyr reeled back, fighting for breath, and her opponent pressed forward, daring to grin for the first time.
  Elminster's wand spat magic again, stars leaping to strike two Wolves. The man fighting Shar staggered, and behind him, one of the Wolves with bows fell heavily onto his face and lay still.
  Sharantyr lunged wearily in to slash the face of the staggering Wolf, then shoved him aside. He fell into the forecourt with a strangled cry of protest, waving his blade as if it could catch hold of something and save him. It could not.
  The lady ranger reached the last bowman. Desperately he brought up his heavy, half-winched weapon to block a thrust at his throat, then dropped it and ran.
  Sharantyr took two running steps after him, then shook her head and collapsed against a crenellation, gasping for breath. Elminster watched the man cast a look back to see that he was not pursued. The Wolf went to a nook in the wall where another stair descended. The Old Mage's eyes narrowed. He was doing something in there ... loading another crossbow?
  Elminster fished under the body of the bowman he'd felled with his wand, dragged out the loaded, ready bow, and struggled to raise it. He was still puffing and staggering when Sharantyr's hand touched his shoulder.
  "El," she panted, "what are youoh." She dragged the bow out of his hands, staggered for a moment under its weight, and fired at the nook just as the Wolf cast an anxious look back at them.
  Blood blossomed in the man's face. His head grew larger for an instant, then disappeared from sight. Sharantyr went to an embrasure in the parapet and shoved the bow out into space.
  She turned back to Elminster, breast heaving, covered with blood and sweat, and said, "Next time . . . if you live ... to pull a next time on me ... choose someplace to go for a walk... that doesn't... have any gates ... hey?"
  Elminster chuckled and kissed her cheek tenderly. Then, his arm around her, he wiped the sweat from her brow with his sleeve and fumbled under his robes.
  Sharantyr raised an eyebrow. Elminster pushed at her shoulder impatiently. "Sit ye down a moment," he ordered.
  The ranger shook her head. "No," she panted. "Do that, and I'm finished. My arms . . . tighten up, everything'll hurt... I must..."
  Her words died away as she saw him heft the sphere of iron bands in his hand. "Ye will sit down," he said, smiling crookedly, "one way or another."
  Sharantyr rolled her eyes at him, sighed heavily, and with a lopsided grin sat down against the parapet. Elminster knelt beside her and triumphantly drew out a ring, which he slipped onto her finger. It was still warm from the heat of his body.
  "Lie still," he ordered, "for a time, while I look below and see what befalls. There's been a strange scarcity of Zhent wizards since that one fled from the market. It worries me."
  Sharantyr started to laugh weakly, staring around at the heaped bodies. "Worried? Now why should you be worried? Not so long ago, you were attacking this castle alone!"
  "Alone? I had a horse," Elminster reminded her dryly. Her helpless laughter grew and grew until it became a bit wild.
  Elminster laid a comforting hand on her shoulder as he looked aroundalong the battlements and at all of the High Castle's turrets, down into the forecourt and at what he could see of the main courtyard beyond without leaving Sharantyr. Then he glanced over the battlements at the shops and cottages below.
  Of the Wolves who'd galloped forth into the marketplace, not one remained alive except the handful who'd managed to get back inside the wallsunless, perhaps, one or two of the sprawled bodies yet held a grim grip on life, or a Wolf or two had fled down the streets or found somewhere to hide.
  Outside the walls, the folk of the dale ruled, though they'd paid a heavy price in blood for their victory. On the battlements not a living Wolf stood. The Sage of Shadowdale and the lady Knight of Myth Drannor were alone with the dead.
  In the forecourt below, weary men and women hacked and staggered. The dalefolk had determined not to let a Wolf live, and the Zhentilar were as adamant that they'd hold the castle and rally to crush this uprising later.
  Or rather, most of them were adamant. As Elminster stood looking, Sharantyr's shoulder rising and falling under his hand with her still-heavy breathing, a door opened in the nearest turret.
  It was a little way along the rampart, past several nooks. Elminster began to lower himself into a crouch and then shrugged. It was too late. He and a tired-looking Zhentilar in scratched and muddy armor were staring into each other's eyes across an easy bow-flight of empty air.
  The man stepped forward but made no charge or threatening gesture. Behind him, other men pushed through the door: half a dozen or more Wolves, two carrying large and heavy coils of rope. The others hadElminster's heart sankheavy crossbows and large armory boxes of quarrels.
  Elminster watched them as they all in turn looked his way. They got to work with windlasses to ready and load their bows. The pair with the rope spent some time fashioning a long, heavy knot to join the two coils, then threw the first coil out over the battlements to plummet down, pulling most of the rope behind it.
  The sounds of battle grew louder below. More Zhents had emerged to defend the forecourt, or more dalefolk had found the courage to ascend the road into the castle. Elminster did not move to find out which.
  The Wolves were looking down the rope, now, and tossing handlengths more of it over the wall. They planned an escape, their bows ready to shoot down any who saw them and moved to imperil their descent.
  Elminster uttered a silent curse at the loss of his Art as he raised his wand. A Wolf who'd been watching him all this while was steadying a loaded crossbow on a crenellation, turning it Elminster's way.
  Elminster unleashed the wand's powers with his will and the more powerful of the item's two words. Blue smoke curled up from its tip, and three pink flowers appeared in the air flying in a line heading toward the Wolves, grew rapidly in size and splendor. Then they were gone in little bursts of rosy light.
  Mystra smile upon us all. Elminster watched the crossbow swivel around as he sank down against the wall beside Sharantyr.
  She regarded him calmly. "What befalls?"
  Elminster shrugged. "This failed," he said, waving the wand. "Unfortunately, I don't feel up to defeating the six or seven Zhentilar warriors who are up here with us." Sharantyr made as if to rise, but he held her down with a surprisingly strong hand. "They have loaded crossbows," he added nonchalantly.
  Sharantyr looked at him and sighed. "Well," she asked quietly, "shall we crawl back along the wall as fast as we can, then?"
  "It might be prudent," Elminster agreed. "Yet it claws at my craw to do so. They'll be over the wall, on a rope, and be gone, probably to raise the rest of the Zhents in the dale at our backs."
  "I did not charge the gates of this place alongside a naked man in chains," Sharantyr told him with a smile that touched her lips for the briefest of moments, "to start being prudent now."
  Elminster spread his hands in silent acknowledgement. An instant later they both heard the scrape of a boot on stone very close by. Elminster's hand plunged into his robes and came out with the iron sphere. Sharantyr was out from under his other hand like a striking serpent, crouching with her blade ready and a dagger poised to throw. She waited against one side of their nook.
  The Wolves had decided to mount a sudden rush, the heavy crossbows cradled in their hands. There were two of them, and at such close range they could hardly miss.
  Sharantyr flung a dagger into the face of the first as his bolt plunged into Elminster's ribs, and followed it with her sword, driven by all her strength.
  As she struck, she shoved against the Wolf's bow, swinging his body between her and the second Wolf's weapon. It went off too late, the quarrel whistling past her and out into air beyond the wall.
  The other Wolves were watching along the rampart. Sharantyr did not entertain them for long. She put a hand on the shoulder of the first Wolf, who was falling with a disbelieving look, his throat cut open, and vaulted over him to crash down atop the second. She hammered him brutally with elbows and knees, then used her blade before his hastily snatched dagger could find her.
  Then she spun about, keeping low, to race back to Elminster. Sharantyr only hoped she'd be in time.

15
A Short Search for Death

  Elminster of Shadowdale sat against the parapet, staring down disgustedly at the quarrel in his chest. A dark, spreading stain had already reached his lap. With trembling fingers, Sharantyr snatched the healing ring off her own finger and jammed it onto one of his.
  He chuckled weakly and patted her shoulder. "Here," he said, pressing the wand into her hand. "Ye try." He nodded his head to indicate the parapet walk behind her, and Sharantyr turned angrily to see another four Wolves coming toward them.
  She drew back her lip in a low-throated snarl, locked eyes with the nearest Wolf, who was raising his bow clumsily, and spat out the word she'd heard Elminster use: "Baulgoss."
  The smooth, unadorned stick of wood in her hand pulsed with force, and two white bolts, trailing tails as if they were tiny falling stars, leapt from it. They struck the man before he could do more than open his mouth to cry out.
  He groaned, shuddered, and dropped his heavy weapon, its bolt smacking against the parapet and glancing off over the forecourt.
  Sharantyr crouched low as the other Wolves stopped and hastily raised their bows. Then she dropped the wand into Elminster's lap and dragged him bodily along the walk and around the corner, shielding him with her own body. One quarrel flashed just over her shoulder, tearing her leathers and leaving blood and burning pain in its wake, and another cracked hard off the parapet to the right. They were safely around the corner when the third quarrel struck stone somewhere.
  Elminster was shaking in pain, teeth clenched. Sharantyr had time only to pat him on the shoulder before she sprang up and ran, bent double, along the parapet walk to the nearest fallen Wolves. There had been one or two with shields ... ah!
  She tore a shield from an unfeeling, limp arm, donned it, and hurried back to the fallen Sage of Shadowdale. Snatching up the wand, she held the shield ready and ran back around the corner.
  She heard a shout, and the shield shuddered under a heavy blow. The head of a quarrel appeared beside her arm. Had she not been holding the shield well in front of her, it might have pierced her breast. Sharantyr snarled and dodged against the parapet, risking a lowered shield for an instant, to look.
  At least one other crossbow was ready, but she'd have no time to worry about it. The three Wolves whose quarrels had just missed her had crouched down to winch their bows into readiness again. Interrupted, they were rising with drawn blades, perhaps two paces away. Sharantyr snarled and hissed the wand's command word again, staring at one Wolf under the edge of her shield.
  This time the wand brought her pulsing, purplish light and an intense feeling of icy cold. No missiles of force appeared, and her opponents did not slow or seem to feel anything. Sharantyr slipped the wand into her shield hand and backed hastily away, snatching out her own sword.
  They came at her in a rush. Sharantyr waited until they were between her and the ready bow she'd seen, then went to one knee, pretending to wobble and groaning in pain. The Wolves almost got in each other's way trying to be the first to carve her.
  Sharantyr took the first blow on her shield and leapt up, moving forward against the body of its wielder. Hip to hip, she turned the Wolf to one side, driving him off-balance into one of his fellows while she parried the thrust of the other Wolf.
  Then she spun away and was behind them all, tying up the blade she'd parried with her own. She forced it down and drove the edge of the shield into the Wolf's face as hard as she could. He fell, spitting blood, as she ducked low.
  As she'd expected, a quarrel thrummed past her, low and well aimed, thirsty for her blood. Instead, it found the knee of the Wolf turning beyond her. He screamed and fell. Sharantyr fired the wand at the one who was left.
  This time it launched a shower of sparks, but out of them a single magic missile coalesced, wavered, and streaked to its target.
  The Zhentilar snarled in pain and came at her, thrusting viciously with his sword. The lady ranger struck his blade aside with her own, drove her hip hard into his armor-clad middle, and shoved him back against the parapet. Another crossbow bolt hissed past, close by. The Wolf straggled, hurling her back, and charged.
  Sharantyr went suddenly to her knees again, bringing her shield up. It took his blade with a thunderous crash. She drove the shield up and kicked out under it as she rolled onto her shoulders.
  The Wolf went over her, cursing helplessly. He had time for one throat-stripping shriek as he plunged headfirst into the forecourt below. Sharantyr let go her shield and rolled over. The Wolf who'd taken a bolt through the knee was crawling her way, face dark with pain, sword ready in his hand. She scrambled toward him, keeping low as she held off his lashing blade with her own, and reached his feet.
  The wounded foot trailed uselessly; he kicked at her with the other. Sharantyr grimly laid hold of the trailing boot, twisted it, and set her teeth against his scream of agony. When the Wolf went limp, she dragged him up and pitched him over the battlements, looking wearily for the three surviving Wolves as she did so.
  One was watching her, a loaded crossbow ready on a crenellation. Another had just started to climb down the rope. The third was holding the rope steady where it went over the wall.
  The lady ranger fired the wand again. The man with the bow staggered back, clutching his shoulder, and cried out.
  Sharantyr charged, sobbing, fear and anger slowly rising to choke her. Had these black-helmed bastards slain the man she'd gone through so much to protect, the one man Shadowdale needed in the face of Zhentarim evil? The legendary mage half the Realms feared and the rest whispered glad tales about?
  "Mother Mystra," she prayed aloud, "aid him now, for I cannot!" Then she flung herself aside desperately as the injured man, face twisted with hatred and pain, aimed his bow and triggered it.
  The bolt slammed into her left shoulder and hurled her back along the wall. Sharantyr screamed as the trip along the rough stones twisted the quarrel, its point grating along her bones. She should have worn the shield again. She should haveoh, gods, the pain!
  Using her sword as a prop, Sharantyr dragged herself up. Her left arm burned and felt dripping wet all at once, and the world seemed to be slowly turning around her. She found her feet, somehow, and ran dizzily toward the man with the bow.
  His face was grim and white, but he drew his blade and came to meet the woman in bloodstained leathers. Her eyes met his like two daggers, but she swayed, and her left arm hung limp, his quarrel standing out of her shoulder.
  "Just what," he snarled, "brings you here, maid?" His blade leapt at her throat. Long hair parted at its passing.
  "Death," she said softly, parrying. Their blades met fingerwidths away from her throat. Steel snarled on steel, but her blade held and his was forced away. "Yours."
  She triggered the wand still clutched in her nerveless left hand, whispering the word that awakened its greater power.
  There was a burst of white light, and the warrior screamed. Sharantyr saw him reel back. A startled Wolf's face gaped at them both from outside the wall, at the head of the rope. She leapt forward with the last of her strength and brought her blade down on that tight-stretched cord.
  Strands parted and flew, and frantic scramblings came from just below her. Then the rope was gone, and two throats were crying vainly to the passing air. Their songs of fear ended very suddenly in thudding sounds.
  Sharantyr sank to her knees there by the turret door and looked about with dull eyes, fighting waves of pain. The Wolf she'd struck with the wand lay fallen beside her. She made sure of his death with her blade, then her gaze fell on his belt.
  A metal vial shone there amid the blood. With sudden urgency she tugged it free, snarling. On hands and knees, she set off on the long crawl back along the battlements.
  The vial bore a rune she knew. The magical drink it held would heal, if it could be trusted with magic going wild. Gods, but she needed it!
  The old man needed it more, the man whose life was more important than any other in the Realms, the man she'd come here to protect.
  Sharantyr crawled grimly back along the battlements, using her blade where life yet lurked amid her fallen foes, and tearing free six more vials as she went.
  She was half blind from helpless tears of pain when she turned the corner, crawling feebly to where Elminster sat in his blood. "Tymora," she sobbed aloud, "let me be in time."
  Then Tymora, or someone else listening with dark humor, rolled darkness over her like a great black cloak, and she sank into it and was gone.
  * * * * *
  "We've the gods to thank that they aren't still raining quarrels down on us!" an exhausted Itharr said, leaning wearily against a heap of corpses, notched and battered blade in hand.
  "More likely we've Elminster to thank," Belkram replied, looking back across the forecourt. Quarrels stood up from fallen, silent men, wooden doors and framing, and cracks in the flagstones like a thicket of leaning weeds. "They left off rather suddenly, and there's been no rush from above."
  Itharr squinted up at what he could see of the battlementsnot much from here. Then he shot another long look at the slit windows around the courtyard, expecting quarrels to leap out of them at any moment.
  The two winded Harpers lay resting with half a dozen men of the dale, all who could still stand and swing a sword after the bloodbath desperate Wolves had made of the forecourt. Many dalefolk had crawled or been dragged away out of the keep. Those still able to fight had no good idea of how many Wolves were left in the castle. They agreed that no members of Longspear's council had been seen elsewhere in the dale. Most or all were probably within these walls.
  There was also at least one mage of power, Hcarla Bellwind, as well as the hated Angruin Stormcloak, who'd hurled death in the marketplace and then fled. The dale-folk couldn't think of any place but here, his seat of power, that he could have gone when his magic took him away.
  Unless Wolves were roaming the battlements above, none remained alive outside the stone walls of the High Castle. Itharr and Belkram had led the men of the dale doggedly through a hail of death to hack down the line of Wolves defending the courtyard. None of them still stood, but the castle servants had loosed the war-horses, milk cows, and goats to mill about the courtyards, making charging or even staying together impossible.
  The two Harpers and the men they led were too weary to do more than watch the roaming animals for a while. They lay, moving only their eyes, amid the bodies of those they'd slain. Their roving gazes kept watch for any emerging foes, but also searched out water, good weapons, and
  "Hey!" Belkram leaned forward. "Over there." He slid down the flank of the still-warm dead horse he'd been propped against, rolled onto his knees, and clambered over bodies until he reached a certain belt. He tugged, worked at leather thongs for a moment, and came back to them with a metal vial in his hand.
  "Healing quaff?" Itharr asked.
  Belkram nodded and held it out to Gedaern, the most badly hurt daleman. "Just a swallow, now," he cautioned.
  The white-faced, sweating man drank carefully, holding the vial in both hands. Then he closed his eyes and let his hands fall slowly into his lap as the liquid worked its way down.
  When the old shopkeeper opened his eyes a deep breath later, he looked at Belkram. "Let's be at them again," he said with a wolfish grin. "I want to see all of them dead or driven out by nightfall."
  He passed the vial on as similar bloodthirsty smiles answered him.
  "Well," Itharr said, looking around, "what's the best way to get in without getting ourselves quickly killed? They'll be waiting."
  The oldest man laughed suddenly, a short bark hoarse from long disuse. "I know the best place! Ayethe bolt hole!"
  "Bolt hole?"
  "Aye," the old man said. "I helped old Lhassar fill it in with stones, when I was a lad. It's where the jakes all drained out before they dug the deep cesspool."
  Belkram rolled his eyes. "I might have known we'd end up climbing through dung before this was over." He waited until hearty, rather wild laughter had risen and died, and then asked, "So where is this?"
  The old man pointed at an inner corner of the courtyard. "Over there."
  Itharr raised his eyebrows. "The jakes drained into thene'er mind. I'm just right glad I didn't dwell here then." He rose, amid answering laughter, and swung his arms about to loosen his stiffening shoulders. "Let's to war again, then," he said quietly.
  Belkram got up. "Aye. For the dale, men, and freedom!"
  "For the dale, and freedom!" they roared back, and plunged grandly in amid the cows.
  Itharr rolled his eyes. "I hope Storm has no magic to be watching us now," he murmured as he and Belkram dodged and trotted amid anxious, milling animals.
  "Why not?" Belkram replied. "This is going to look splendid, in a breath or two, when we chase all these horses out of here so the Wolves can't flee on them!"
  In reply, Itharr rolled his eyes again.
  * * * * *
  Ylyndaera Mulmar turned, eyes flashing. "Well, watch over me, then! You'll have to do it on the run, though, because I'm going after my father! He needs me. I know it. I... I can feel it."
  She looked toward the castle, unseen through a solid wall of Ulraea's shop, and spun fiercely back to face the shop mistress, eyes flaming, hair whirling about her shoulders. "Are you with me, Ulraea?" The dagger gleamed in her hand as she mounted to the window, where the shutters still hung in ruins from Irreph's handling.
  Ulraea spread her hands helplessly and sighed. She went to a nearby table, took up a new, gleaming cleaver, and tugged the price tag from it with sudden impatience. She slashed the air with it a few times, her ample bosom shaking, and sighed again.
  "At least, child," she said reprovingly, beckoning with the gleaming steel in her hand, "if you must die a hero, let us leave by the door, hey, and not my window."
  Daera's sudden smile was dazzling.
  * * * * *
  "What? Where?" The words were out of Sharantyr's mouth before she knew she was saying them. Gentle hands were cradling her head and stroking her hair.
  She lay on something hard but warmer than stone. She ached, here and there, and her shoulder throbbed, but the rending, blinding pain was gone. Wondering, she fought her eyes open and looked around.
  Elminster's anxious face looked down at her. A soft breeze was blowing his beard caressingly across her forehead. "Shar?" he asked, voice rough. "Are ye all right?"
  Sharantyr put a hand down and rolled to her side. "I... I think so." She looked around. She was lying on Elminster's robe, on the parapet walk. Dead Wolves littered the battlements around them. A few crows had found the bodies and were fluttering about and pecking experimentally.
  The Old Mage was sitting unconcernedly in his clout and boots, the ring of regeneration gleaming on his finger. Sharantyr's gaze leapt to where the quarrel had struck him.
  All she saw was a dark, angry-looking patch. Elminster smiled and held up the quarrel, dark with his own blood.
  Sharantyr shuddered, and then dared a glance at her own shoulder. It had been clumsily bandaged with what looked like strips torn from Elminster's clout: cotton now stiff with dried blood. Her shoulder, unseen beneathshe wriggled it experimentallyfelt whole. She raised questioning eyes to Elminster.
  "The healing potions ye brought back," Elminster said. "Ye had all of them." He scratched at his beard and poked at her bandaged shoulder. "How d'ye feel?"
  Sharantyr sat up, feeling light-headed. Under her torn leathers she was sticky and ached, her stiff and bruised muscles complaining, but her probing fingers encountered none of the fresh blood and deep wounds she had feared to find.
  "Weak as a weaned kitten, Old Mage," she said with a smile, "but I'll live. Give me a few breaths more and I'll be up and swinging a sword again."
  Elminster looked at the carnage around them. "I'll stand clear of thy way when ye do," he told her dryly.
  Sharantyr answered his smile, briefly, but her eyes grew somber when she saw the dead. "I like this killing little," she whispered with sudden urgency, turning to him. "Believe me, won't you?"
  Elminster put a swift, lean arm around her. "I do, Shar. I know ye well enough, now." He looked around them and added, "Mind, we need ye to try thy hand at it a little time longer." He held up the magic missile wand. "Ye seem far more effective than this, I must say."
  * * * * *
  Daera came out into the street like a silent shadow. There was at least one man outside, in armor. A Wolf!
  The man was grinning, one armored hand clutching a twisted handful of long hair. The woman he held grimaced in pain but dared not even whimper; the long curve of his sword was hard against her throat. Another woman watched from a nearby door, mouth agape, frozen in fear.
  "A good horse your man has," the Wolf said, almost conversationally. "I've seen it." His hand yanked her back into the hard embrace of his armor, then came around to her breast.
  Deliberately, he tore the worn cloth of her bodice away. "Almost as good as his taste in women," the Wolf said, caressing her with cruel, bruising fingers. The sword brushed up and down her throat, reminding her not to scream.
  "You're going to take me to that good horse," the Wolf said grimly as he forced her steadily along the street. "Silence! You, too," he added to the watching woman in the doorway, "or I'll slit both your throats and forego the pleasure of your company."
  The awkward procession continued down the street, the captive woman feebly pointing at an alleyway. With a face dark as a hailstorm, Daera waved Ulraea to silence and went after them on silent feet, dagger ready.
  She knew he'd look around before entering the alley, and hurried. She had to get his sword away, but how?
  The armored back was very close in front of her, the smell of sweat and oiled metal strong. Ylyndaera Mulmar looked at it, knowing she had only a breath more to act, and inspiration came.
  She stepped to his blind side as the Wolf's head started to turn, and slipped her dagger delicately up into the armpit of his sword arm, where armor plate ended and old, sweat-weakened leather began.
  The man stiffened, roared in pain, and nearly dropped his blade. He whirled, snatching at it with his other hand, as three women screamed.
  Ylyndaera snarled amid the shrieks and stabbed at the man's eyes from behind.
  He shrieked, too, as blood fountained up from the wound in his armpit, and broke into an agonized, stumbling run. She watched him go, goaded by pain, as his bright blood ran down the dagger in her hand, and felt her gorge rise. No. She could not slay him that way, by finding an eye from behind, and feeling the blade go in ... ohhh ...
  As her spew splattered on the stones in front of her, a thought came. She reached for a stone she knew was loose, from long-gone days when she'd played up this alley and down others.
  The stone was large, flat, and very heavy. She caught up to the staggering Wolf, roughly tore off his helm from behind, and with both hands brought the stone down hard on his head.
  He shuddered, started to curse, and fell. She did it again. Again. And again before something gave. His body jerked under her knees before it fell still.
  As she rose, she looked into the great, dark eyes of the horse owner's wife, who stood watching, the marks of cruel fingers dark on her flesh. Daera managed a smile as she took up the man's sword, hefted it, and said, "Come with me, Jharina. I'm for the castle. We're going to kill us some Wolves."
  From behind her, Daera heard a shocked gasp. Without turning she said, "Ulraea? Bring along Tanshlee, too. She'll catch a chill, standing gawping in that doorway all day."
  Her eyes looked deep into Jharina's. The older, prouder lady looked back at the gangling girl with the sword and the bloody dagger, and drew in a deep, shuddering breath.
  "Well?" Ylyndaera asked softly. "Are you with me?"
  Jharina smiled. "Yes," she said, her voice almost steady. "Yes, I am." She stepped forward and embraced the high constable's daughter, treading on the fallen Wolf uncaringly.
  "Lead us, lass," she said, "as your father does. Lead us."
  Daera kissed her cheek, handed her the dagger, and started back out of the alley. "Hurry, then," she said. "The men may need us. All's gone quiet up there, and when magic's about, that means ill."
  The bloodstained and mud-smeared Wolf who came stumbling out of an alley just then, to make a run for the castle, was unlucky indeed. The angry howls and screams of the women warned him before they reached him, but not in time for him to outrun them on a wounded leg. He swung his blade twice, jarring Ylyndaera with two hard parries, before his leg gave way and they had him. He did not scream long.
  They paused for a moment to let Tanshlee be sick all over the body, then hastened up the road to the open castle gates. Men were hurrying about inside, halberds and swords gleaming in their hands. Wolves.
  "Tymora," Daera breathed, "let us not be too late."
  The words had scarcely left her lips when there was a great flash and booming sound from within the walls. A man's head, still wearing a helm and a shocked expression, flew past them amid a shower of stones, dirt, and other things best not examined too closely.
  "Oh, gods," Daera cursed, and broke into a run. "Come on!"
  They were almost at the gate before they heard the growing thunder of hooves clattering and pounding toward them. Frantically they flung themselves aside, diving to the turf, as the world exploded in racing horses.
  "Daera," Ulraea quavered as they hugged the ground together amid rolling dust, "could you stop praying, d'you think? Every time you call on a divine one, something happens!"
  "Oh," Daera replied, clutching her sword. "All right."

16
Stormcloak's Humor

  Elminster coughed. "If ye feel up to standing," he said, "I'd best be putting my robe back on now. Thy reputation, ye know. Besides, 'tis cold when one is old and thin and not used to drafty battlements."
  Sharantyr chuckled and rolled to her feet. She felt a little weak at the knees and caught hold of the rampart for support, but when she moved there was no great pain, and everything turned and flexed as it should. She found her sword and took it up. Its familiar weight made her feel all was well again.
  Elminster held up his robe and ostentatiously brushed it clean. After an undignified moment of struggling as he put it on over his head, he smoothed his beard and hefted his much-used wand. "I fear more bloodshed awaits us," he said, almost eagerly. "Now, if someone will show us where the battle's gotten to ..."
  As if in reply, someone not far away laughed exultantly. They tensed, staring in the direction the sound had come from, and seeing only empty walks and stairs, lifeless turrets. The sound came again, from the far side of one of the turrets. A door or a window must be hidden from their view. In unspoken accord they hurried along the battlements as silently as they could.
  "Fools," a voice that matched the laughter called, "you have come here, your hard and desperate way, only to find your own deaths!"
  The taunt was not directed at them; it was hurled down into the inner courtyard, where men with weaponspitchforks, old felling axes, and a few swords and daggersstood warily in a corner, livestock milling all around them.
  Elminster and Sharantyr exchanged glances and hurried on. They still could not see the speaker. In front of them was the turret the Wolves with the rope had emerged from. The voice must be coming from its other side.
  "Rush in by that door," Elminster whispered to the lady ranger, "only after ye hear me shout. Move as fast as ye can. Only a Zhent wizard would be foolish and arrogant enough to gloat over foes instead of striking, but he won't go on forever. Don't give him a chance to use magic on thee." He clapped her shoulder affectionately and darted around the curving side of the turret. Sharantyr held her blade high as she came up to the door.
  The storm shutters had been thrown wide on an arched window that commanded a view of the courtyard and the parapet walk most of the way around the inside of the castle. Leaning out of the window, resplendent in rich robes, a cruel-looking man wearing earrings and a triumphant sneer was fairly spitting his words down at the trapped men below.
  "Thought yourselves victorious, did you? Country idiots! Longspear ruled only as far as we let him. Now that you've swept him away and most of his stupid sword-swingers with him, what have you accomplished?"
  The man raised his hand. Elminster saw that he held a handful of winking, glowing glass spheres that spun lazily around each other, and his heart sank. Zhent blast-globes!
  "All you've done, worms, is thrown away your livesand those of your wives and daughters and mothersby hewing down all among us who might have shown you any mercy. Now you face wizards of power, dullards, and you'll discover just how we deal with defiance!"
  The globes swept up, pulsing with sudden fire as he drew back his hand to throw them. "Know, worms, that it is I, Haragh Mnistlyn, who destroys you!"
  Elminster leaned close then and conversationally said, "Boo."
  The Zhentarim turned a startled face to the Old Mage, who smiled sweetly at him and bellowed, "Now, Shar!"
  Elminster raised his wand with a confident smile and tensed to fling himself back around the curve of the wall.
  The Zhent wizard didn't disappoint him. Snarling in surprised fury, he flung the blast-globes straight at Elminster.
  If they struck anything, they would explode.
  The Old Mage hurled himself back as energetically as he'd ever done anything in his long, long life.
  There was a frozen moment when the only thing he heard was his own heartbeat booming between his ears like the muffled, deep call of a far-off marching drum. His shoulder struck stone with bruising force, and he skidded on. Lights winked and flashed past his nose.
  It seemed his life might stretch a little longer, after all. A loud crash came from within the turret, accompanied by a startled curse, as the blazing globes spun past Elminster, whirled over the inner parapet wall with a handwidth or so to spare, and plunged down into the forecourt. Safely around the curve of the turret wall, the Old Mage craned to watch the end of their flight and saw folk coming toward the gate from outside the castle.
  Folk without armor. Folk of the daleWomen! He had no time even for a prayer to Mystra but brought up his wand and hissed desperately, "Alag!"
  The wand gave forthah, praise be!a glowing teardrop of force, firing it out over empty air with a soft phut. It curved gracefully down and then seemed to leap through the air to meet the descending globes just before they could reach the open gate.
  Elminster stared hard at the gatehad he been in time?and barely heard the thin scream, abruptly cut off, from behind him. On its heels came the fury of the blast, smiting his ears like spell-thunder.
  Below, a door had just opened in a tower wall. Armored Wolves were hurrying out into the forecourt, halberds and blades ready. Well, he couldn't stop the luck of Tempus falling on them.
  The women had seen the Wolves and hesitated. Yes, that would save them! Elminster laughed aloud.
  Gods, if he only had his magic, none of this would be necessary. But still, they'd done well this day. He turned.
  "Shar?"
  A grim, blood-streaked face looked out of the door at him. "I live. That's more than can be said for this spell-hurler. He was quick, I'll give him that."
  The lady ranger came out into the light again. Her face was white, and she was shaking with rage.
  "What, lass?" Elminster asked, reaching out to her. Sharantyr turned blazing eyes on him.
  "Those snakes are laying wagers on who will kill the most with their magic," she said, seething. "He screamed just after that blast, and someone called up the stairs to see if anything had gone wrong, shouting to ask if he still expected to outdo Stormcloak's body count and claim the victor's share."
  Elminster looked at her. "So what will ye do?" he asked quietly.
  Sharantyr brushed errant hair out of her eyes and raised the bloody tip of her blade. "I'm going down those stairs," she said fiercely. "Guard my back, Old Mage."
  Elminster nodded. "I will, as best I can."
  They gazed around the battlementslong years of experience made Elminster search the sky for dragons, but he found noneand slipped into the turret, pulling the door nearly closed.
  The turret room was awash with blood. The arrogant Zhentarim was draped over the back of a chair, arms flung wide, staring forever at something unseen near the ceiling.
  Elminster's stomach turned over. Sharantyr set her teeth and hurried to the steps.
  A light glimmered below. They descended quietly, drifting to a stop when they saw men moving in the room at the foot of the stair. It was some sort of meeting room, where men were draining and refilling ornate goblets steadily as they sat at the table or strode restlessly around it.
  "Oh, we're safe enough," one cold voice was saying as Sharantyr came within hearing range. "Stormcloak sent an extra guard patrol to the roof. Ten men, I believe, and the strutting 'prentice. What's his name? Ragh, or something of the sort? The dandy who always wears court robes. It'd take old Elminster himself to break in on us here."
  In the darkness on the stairs, two sets of teeth flashed in mirthless smiles.
  The voice that spoke next was deeper and shorter. "The question is: Now that we don't have Longspear to hold on to his reins, what will Stormcloak do? We need forty bowmen at least to hold the dale. They're all roused out there now. Even if we slay every man who's raised sword against us today, we'll have to take the dale all over again."
  "A harder thing to do now, with Cormyr and Sembia both looking our way and beginning to suspect who our mages are."
  "Aye," came the deep voice again, "but will Stormcloak call for the aid we need, or will his first concern be impressing Lord Manshoon and other Zhentarim of power with his own strength and battle cunning? He may well try to win the day alone for greater glory. He cares nothing for this place. All can see that much."
  "Hush, will you. Hear? He comes. That must be his guard, for there's not another large band of sword brothers left."
  Elminster laid a silent hand on Sharantyr's sword arm to check her. Silently she laid her own free hand over his and patted it reassuringly. No. The time was not now.
  There came the sound of many booted feet, a door opening, and a single, measured tread approaching the table.
  "Councillors," came a cold, confident voice, "we hold the castle. Only a few of those who attacked us yet live. I'm told that women and young girls are all who remain to storm our gates. We've not found the mage or the two warriors who led the rabble. I suspect Cormyr is backing them, but I'll find out soon enough. As you know, the real tragedy today is the loss of our lord, slain by those two warriors." He paused, but no voice broke the silence.
  "With his fall, rule over this dale passes into my hands," the voice continued flatly, challengingly. The words fell into another silence.
  Then a deep voice said, "By what right do you claim lordship here, Stormcloak? Your magic, aye, but have you any less . . . ah, brutish claim? It is customary for the council to choose who shall rule over the High Dale." A general stirring accompanied these words, a shifting, rising tension that died into heavy, anticipatory silence.
  Stormcloak's reply was as cold as a glacier wind. "You must know, Councillor, where Lord Longspear came from and what men he led in battle. That place is where I and my fellow mages came from. You are not a fool; you tell me."
  "Zhentil Keep," the deep voice replied slowly, waiting.
  "Aye," Stormcloak agreed dryly. "Whose orders I have followed, and passed on to Longspear and others, since the day we came here. I held authority over Longspear from the first, whether he acknowledged it or not. As to the vote of this council, consider a simple sum. To be lord I need only a majority of votes, and all the Zhentarim will vote with me."
  "There are fewer of you," the deep voice reminded him, just as dryly, "than there once were."
  "Well then, good Councillor Gulkin, perhaps it is time that the real strength of the Brotherhood was made known to youto all of you. Call it a necessity of war, if you will, and if any tongues here today should slip about it later, be warned that their silencing will also be ... a necessity of war."
  A wine goblet was set down deliberately. Men stirred and shifted again.
  Stormcloak's voice came again. "Kromm Kadar is the most recent addition to this table. Our blacksmith serves Zhentil Keep. His predecessor was a Sembian spy, whom we killed. Kromm serves the same master I do; his vote will be with mine."
  Tense silence was the only reply. Stormcloak's triumphant, almost taunting voice came again. "There is also Alazs. Am I not right?"
  "Yes, Lord," came a new, thin voice.
  "Alazs breeds good horses and has sold many to Lord Longspear. I'm sure he'll continue to put good mounts under our men. He has orders to, from the same source as I get my directives. Alazs has swung a sword for the Brotherhood in the Moonsea North for many a year. Perhaps you've heard of Alazs Ironwood, the Sword of Melvaunt?"
  Silence was the only reply. Stormcloak was moving about the room; his voice receded slightly. "Are you counting, Gulkin? Have I the votes yet? Not quite. Ah, but there's another. Our physic, Cheth, is more than a man of potions, drugs, and herbs. He, too, serves the Brotherhoodand his healing seems most successful when applied to those we want healed."
  "Is this wise," a rasping voice came, "revealing us all, when you could have just voted this stump-head down?"
  "I believe so, Master Moonviper," Stormcloak replied. "I think it's important that we drop the pretenses with which Longspear wasted so much of our time."
  The listeners on the stairs heard the glass stopper of a heavy decanter set down, liquid gurgling, and the thud of the decanter returning to the tabletop.
  "Sword, would you?" The stopper was replaced and the decanter shifted again.
  "Thank you." Stormcloak sipped, swallowed, and came closer. His voice was loud, very close under them, when he continued. "I have long had my suspicions, Councillor Gulkin, that some among us may well serve other masters, unknown to me. Perhaps you know something of this and can enlighten me? No? Well, feel free to unburden yourselves, any of you, should you learn of such misplaced loyalties among us. There have always been those who meddleworshipers of dead dragons, the Harpers, and the Red Wizards, to name just three. I'll be very surprised if at least one man here doesn't know more of one such concern than he wants us to realize. Of course, we must always look to Cormyr on the one hand and Sembia on the other to take an interest in us, lying between them, the lightly patrolled backlands of both within our reach."
  They heard him walking about almost lazily in the deep silence that followed.
  "That, Cheth," Stormcloak added lightly, "is why I'd like everyone here to know just how matters stand. Besides, this will give traitors among us something to dotrying to report back to those who hold their secret loyalty, and not be discovered by us while doing so."
  "Yes, Lord Stormcloak," Cheth agreed.
  "Ah, but let us have the vote," Stormcloak's voice came again, almost purring now. "Or rather, to save time and thirsty throats, councillors, let us hear who would vote against me. Simply speak out and name the one you would have rule the dale in my stead." He chuckled and added, "In view of the situation at present, please ensure that you choose someone you know to be still alive."
  Elminster leaned over and murmured, his lips against Sharantyr's ear, "I'd not seen this humor in the man before. It's much worse than his cold, snarling side."
  Sharantyr turned her head until her soft lips were at the Old Mage's ear. "I take it, then, that you're voting against him?"
  Elminster chuckled silently. It made his beard dance against her cheek.
  "I believe you're right, Cheth," Stormcloak's voice came up to them. "It seems I am lord in the High Dale, after all. We'll have to set a feast over this. Tonight, in the Great Hall. Give the orders, won't you, Councillor Gulkin?"
  "Aye, Lord," the deep voice muttered. "Is this meeting at an end?"
  "If the council agrees," Stormcloak said silkily. There was a gruff, uneven answering chorus of assent, the sound of chairs scraping back, and the noise of booted feet moving about. The sounds receded until they died away entirely.
  "Follow the wine merchant," Stormcloak's voice came again. "He's been entirely too quiet and agreeable these six rides past."
  "Aye, Lord," someone replied, and left.
  Stormcloak's tread came closer until it was right beneath them. His hard, carefree voice said, "All right, Haragh, you can come down now. You've been crouching up there listening to all of it, haven't you?"
  Sharantyr twisted out from under Elminster's hand and launched herself down the stairs like a vengeful arrow. Her sword flashed as she came out into the light in a leap that brought her down on top of the startled wizard.
  Only the goblet in the Zhentarim's hand saved him. Her landing drove his outstretched arms up, and the goblet with them in front of his throat. Her sword cut it to twisted ruin, but Stormcloak's flesh beneath escaped, leaving him alive and able to shriek.
  Sharantyr's training made her look up as they struck the floor together. Three fully armored, capable warriors were moving toward her, weapons grating out.
  Veterans, and not alone. Two swordsmen had been going out the door after the departing councillors. They were already turning startled faces to her.
  If she carved up this Zhent wizard, she'd have no time to hold back all the swords coming for her. And who would protect Elminster then?
  Sharantyr sprang up, too busy to curse, and leapt to meet the first warrior. From behind her, a magic missile streaked into one of the faces at the door, quelling the shout it was widening to utter. The other missile must have struck the new lord of the dale. Behind her she heard him gasp, curse, and roll frantically away.
  Then she was fighting for her life and had no time to watch Angruin Stormcloak frantically teleport away.
  Harpies curse the woman, whoever she was, were his parting thoughts. He'd snatched the time to take that spell back into his mind as battle raged at the very gates of the castle. Now it was used and gone, with dangerous fools still lurking about.
  Red butterflies suddenly swirled all around Sharantyr, and with them came a drift of snow.
  She heard Elminster sigh and murmur, "Wands!" in exasperation. Then the first warrior slipped on something and fell heavily at her feet, nearly taking her with him. She caught the second blade reaching for her life at the last possible instant.
  The first man was struggling and heaving beneath her, reaching for a dagger or trying for room enough to get his sword into her, no doubt. The second man was snarling and using all his strength to force into her face the broadsword she'd parried a finger or so in front of her nose. Sharantyr set her teeth and resisted, knowing he was stronger and that the struggles beneath her were forcing her up into the waiting blade.
  "Lady, aid me," Sharantyr cried, calling on Mielikki, the goddess of the forest. "Tymora and Tempus, attend," she added for good measure, seeing death very close to her and reaching dark fingers her way.
  Then the man above her grunted and was spitting blood and teeth as a tattered, dirty, and familiar boot took him in the face. Elminster had joined the fight. He stepped on her with a muttered, "Sorry, lass," as he bent to drive his dagger into the neck of the man beneath her. Then he sprang up, robes swirling, to stamp on the sword hand of the man he'd kicked. There was a cracking sound and a roar of pain, and Elminster had the sword in his own hands and was bringing it up to parry the rushing attack of the third man.
  "Shar," the Old Mage suggested calmly as a flurry of ringing blows drove him back across her toward the stair, "cut the legs out from under this fellow for me, will ye?"
  Sharantyr grinned savagely. "I'll do better," she replied, and snaked an arm out from under the tangle of limbs to drive her sword up into the breeches under his armor skirt.
  The man screamed, gave an awkward hop, and fell to the floor, writhing in agony. Elminster dropped the sword and went to the table.
  Men were thundering back up into the room, hastily donning helms and drawing swords. Elminster picked up the heaviest chair he could find, and with a sudden rippling of muscles threw it across the room to crash into the foremost man.
  The startled Wolf went down, and the man behind him tripped and went sprawling. Elminster hurled the iron sphere he was carrying at the next man and charged forward, snatching out his dagger again.
  He used it twice with brutal haste before he reached the pinioned man. With a bleak smile he struck the sword out of the man's hand and shoved the man hard with his shoulder.
  The man was wrapped in metal bands, like a cage that has tightened around its prisoner until the bars press into the skin all around and movement is impossible. Elminster drove the helpless man backward into the door frame, where he lodged amid cracking noises of wood and bone, and a scream of pain.
  "Noisy, these Zhents," he commented as the man screamed again. Men behind him in the corridor outside the room began to curse, trying and failing to push the pinioned Wolf out of their way. "How do ye, Shar?"
  Sharantyr came to join him, blade wiped clean. "I'm still alive," she replied grimly, eyeing the man, "but I like little the thought of hacking my way through that lot. What say we go back up again and seek another way down?"
  Elminster frowned for a breath or two as unseen men shoved and cursed, doing something that made the caged man scream again. Then he nodded. "I don't like to leave magic behind, with things as they are," he said, eyeing the iron bands, "but there's no easy way to get that back without fighting all of them. I suppose I should thank Mystra and Tymora both for it merely working when I needed it."
  Sharantyr nodded and took his arm. "Come, El. Let's be out of here before someone else finds magic that works and fills this room with fireor worse."
  Elminster looked again at the now-unconscious man, head bouncing and lolling from the force of blows he was taking from behind as impatient warriors tried to force their way into the room. He sighed, drew up his robes in both hands for faster climbing, and made for the stairs. Sharantyr glided just behind him, sword ready, watching their rear as they ascended. It was turning into a very long day.

17
Beware Ladies with Steel in Their Hands

  "Is the high constable still alive?" Sharantyr asked as they came cautiously out of the turret and looked around. A quiet had fallen over the High Castle as the afternoon sun lit up its every nook and crevice. In the courtyard below, a few dalefolk could be seen cautiously probing bodies and piles of rubble and tumbled gear. Doors were closed, and turret windows shuttered. Save for a thin wisp of smoke rising from the castle kitchens, the fortress seemed deserted, as if no one lurked within, plotting victory and gathering swords and magic.
  Elminster spread empty hands. "Mulmar? I barely recognized him, ye know, with the chains an' all. He headed for the battlements by one stair while we ascended by the other. I lost sight of him after that. I seem to recall hearing him cry out when they were firing all those quarrels at us." He winced. "If he fell there, in the forecourt, I may have sent him to the gods myself a little later when I hit the Zhent's globes."
  At the memory, he drew the wand from his belt, looked at it quizzically, and sighed. "I can't remember what Art is left in this. It's gone wild so many times now, who can tell?" He shrugged. "Let us seek Irreph, whate'er befalls now. Thy thought is a good one."
  Sharantyr smiled at him. "Of course. They always are." She handed her sword to him. "Here, hold this."
  "The eternal saying of a woman to a man," Elminster observed wryly. "But why to me, and now?"
  Sharantyr grunted under the dead, dangling weight of the corpse she'd picked up. "Because I need both hands ... for this." She staggered back along the walk, the dead man on her shoulders, and dumped the carrion through the turret window.
  "Drag a few over here, will you?" she called. "Before we look for the high constable, we'd best guard our rear."
  Elminster dragged obediently. The lady ranger tossed the bodies down the stairs, Haragh first.
  "They'll carve or crush their way past the one you trapped down there soon enough," Sharantyr said. "If they have to get past all of these to come after uswell, at least they'll be slowed down. Or if they use magic to shift them, we'll be warned." She puffed, heaved, and sweated until cold, heavy bodies choked the stair and covered the turret room floor. Then she squinted at Elminster, pulling hair out of her eyes, and said, "I'll be glad when this day's done, Old Mage. I'm beginning to feel old."
  Elminster raised an eyebrow. "A thousand and more years old am I, and d'ye hear me groaning and limping and feebly protesting my age? Surely ye can manage the weight of a mere twenty-odd winters, lass!"
  He grinned at her expression and added innocently, "Or is it thirty-odd?"
  The Old Mage of Shadowdale then demonstrated the light weight of his years for all the Realms to see by running off as fast and nimbly as any naughty child at play. Sharantyr aided him by amply demonstrating his immediate need to do so.
  * * * * *
  "He lives," Elminster said tersely, kneeling by the sprawled, blackened body on the stair. Quarrels stood out from it like needles in a chatelaine's pincushion. The high constable lay in his blood amid a litter of chains, fallen Wolves, and odd weapons. "He'll want healing, even to see the moon this night."
  "Then give it to him," said Sharantyr in a voice that trembled with fresh rage. "While I do what he was trying to."
  Elminster turned. "And that is?" he asked mildly.
  Sharantyr's face was bleak. "Destroy every Zhent still in this dale." Zhents had done this to a brave man who still wore their chains, just as Zhents had chained her, too, and . . . She thrust away those memories with a shudder, letting her rage build into the fire she'd need to slay as ruthlessly as she'd need to. As ruthlessly as they always did.
  She found she was trembling, and that Elminster had noticed it and had begun to frown, so she drew in a deep breath and tried to assume a nonchalant manner. Hefting her long sword, she surveyed the notches and scrapes in its steel critically and added, "One of them owes me a new sword, too."
  "Still feeling old and worn out?" Elminster asked her pointedly, slipping the ring of regeneration onto one of Irreph Mulmar's fingers and closing the limp, hairy hand of the high constable over it.
  Sharantyr laughed harshly. "No. Not anymore." She turned away, whipped her sword through the air thrice, stretched like a great cat, and turned back to him. "Wish me luck, Old Mage," she said in a voice like silk falling onto waiting steel. "I've Wolves to hunt."
  Elminster smiled. "All of Tymora's luck upon thee, and more. Take with thee all that Mystra and I have no need for." He rose hastily, smile fading, and reached out his hand to her. Wondering, Sharantyr laid her hand in his.
  The Old Mage gently drew her to him. His lips were soft on her cheek.
  "Take care, lass," he said roughly, "for I find more and more that I do not want to lose thee."
  Sharantyr stared at him for a moment, openmouthed, then whirled about and raced away across the forecourt.
  Elminster watched her go, shook his head slightly, and sat down on the step above Irreph, wand in hand, to guard the high constable of the High Dale. There are less steady jobs.
  * * * * *
  Sharantyr ran past the astonished women of the dale, who were clutching a variety of weapons and looking nervously at shuttered windows high above them, dark arrow-slit windows uncomfortably nearer, and closed doors. She gave them one hawklike, searching glance and ran on without breaking stride, drawn sword gleaming.
  Ylyndaera stared after her and said urgently, "All of you, follow her! Come!"
  Sharantyr ran hard, hair streaming, across the muddy courtyard toward a shadow in a back corner where the men had been earlier . . . men who were not there now. They must have found a way in. She would find it too.
  Behind straw heaped up for the horses, Sharantyr found a pile of fresh stones. Then she saw the hole their removal had opened in the wall. Here the others had gone in. Here, guarded or not, she would follow.
  She halted, breathing heavily from her run, and looked all around warily. Seeing no foe, she crouched to peer into the gloom, extended her blade, and followed it into darkness.
  Her throat was suddenly very dry. She'd climbed into unknown dark places a time or six, aye, but always in the company of othersusually the merry, mighty Knights of Myth Drannor. With them, as they hewed down dragons and wizards alike while trading jests and insults, it was all too easy to feel invulnerable. But now . . . She crept onward, hoping no enemy archer or mage waited at the other end of this tunnel.
  The strong smell of deep, damp earth rose around her with a faint, clinging odor of decay. Thankfully, there were no charnel or beast smells. This was no lair or bone pit, and the way ahead was short.
  The tunnel opened out into a small, round room. Smooth-sided chutessmaller, tubelike tunnelsopened into it on all sides and from above. The higher they went, the narrower they became. This was familiar, somehow. It resembled something she'dof course! This was a privy pit, and the tunnels abovedisused, by the lack of strong smell or dung underfootled to garderobes or cruder jakes in the castle above. But where had those dalesmen gone?
  Two tunnels looked large enough to comfortably crawl in. The one to the left must lead toward the turret and the room they'd heard Stormcloak elect himself lord in. The one to the right went to the kitchens, great hall, guest rooms, and audience chambers.
  Near the great hall, there'd probably be too many people about, and it would be too large to furnish easy cover against a crossbow. Moreover, there wereor at least recently had beenWolves in the other direction. Lots of them. She peered down both tunnels but could find nothing distinctive about either, and no marks to show which way the men had gone.
  She shrugged. Left, then. Sharantyr climbed into the tunnel, slid along uncomfortably on her knuckles for a time, thought about what a target her backside must make for anyone shooting a crossbow down this tunnel, and carefully sheathed her sword. Empty-handed, she could travel at twice the speed and found it far easier to be quiet. She went on, groping in deepening darkness, as the tunnel rose, met with smaller side tubes, and grew a little smaller.
  Well, she was in the castle, but how to get out of this dark, close tunnel? Something small and four-footed scampered momentarily across her way. A rat, no doubt. Sharantyr started to wish she could see.
  What if she met with something larger and hungrier, or a trap of some sort? She wouldn't even see it in the darkness.
  She forced that thought down, concentrating instead on the sure knowledge that the chute carried waste down from somewhere, and so she must inevitably reach that origin.
  Sharantyr hoped someone's backside wouldn't be covering it when she did. She could almost hear the sly voice of the thief Torm, her sometime tormentor in the Knights, making that snide observation. She smiled to herself and climbed on.
  Then, very suddenly, her hands found a hard stone wall. She felt upward and discovered that her tunnel had ended in a shaft a little taller than she was, with some sort of grating as its ceiling. She drew her sword and probed carefully, searching for a trap. Her sword point pierced something yieldingclothand a stream of tiny pellets hissed down in a trickle past her face. She held out her hand to catch some of the grains and brought it to her nose. Rice! She had cut into a bag of rice.
  Sharantyr probed carefully, tracing the outlines of the grating. Then she sheathed her blade, took a deep breath, crouched, and sprang up high, hands outstretched.
  One hand smashed into a sack, scrabbled, and found a grip around a bar. The other smashed hard and painfully into metal. She gritted her teeth and hung by one hand for what seemed a long time, nursing throbbing fingers and shaking them in hopes nothing was broken.
  Then she reached up, got a grip on the grating with her hurt hand, and started tugging and bouncing up and down. Her hand throbbed with every move, but the grating shifted slightly, lifting with her movements. She continued, as hard as she could, but the rice bags above held the grating down, and at last she had to admit defeat.
  Sharantyr dropped again, drew her blade, and attacked the rice above her, stabbing again and again as hissing rice ran down into her hair, her bodice, and even through sliced and torn spots in her leathers.
  She went on stabbing and jabbing until she could feel no weight on the grating above, then carefully worked the empty bags aside with her sword through the grate.
  It was dark and cool in the chamber above. Very faint light filtered down to her. Sharantyr leapt up again.
  This time the grating shifted as she struck it. She let go, dropped, and instantly sprang up again, striking the grating on an angle. As it lifted, she kicked the air hard and arched her body. The grating slid sideways with her clinging to it. The lady ranger twisted and arched her body again, and before the bars could fall back into place, she got the toe of one boot up through the opening.
  The grating came down hard on her boot. Sharantyr grunted, heaved, twisted, and rolled all at once. She found herself sprawled atop more sacks of rice, still entangled with the grating, in what seemed to be a large and dark storage cellar.
  Shar laid the grating carefully back in place, found the sacks she'd emptied, and covered it with them. Then she climbed over a great many sackssome, by the sound, held dried beansinto a narrow trail among the sacks, crates, and barrels that crammed the room.
  If this place was barred or locked from the outside, she was not going to be pleased. Sharantyr drew her blade again, held it carefully upright close to her breast, and went cautiously eastward, for the trail seemed to widen in that direction, and the faint light grew slightly stronger.
  Her way ended in an old, stout wooden door. She pushed at it and then pulled, but it had no handle on this side. She felt around the door, found its edges, and carefully slipped her dagger up one of them.
  As she expected, the blade struck a catch or hasp. If it was locked or pegged down, she was in trouble. But if it could be lifted by driving the blade upwardYes! The door swung open, and Sharantyr reached for the hasp with racing fingers to quell any noise of its falling.
  Done. The room beyond was also unlit, but light reached long fingers into it from a torch in a wall bracket beyond a door or wooden gate that was more gaps and knotholes than wood. Sharantyr drifted up to it, put away her dagger, reached nimble fingers through to lift the peg that held it shut, and peeked out into the corridor.
  Two bored-looking men were seated not six paces away, sorting potatoes on a long table covered with what looked like a very old tapestry. They worked in silence, and when one of them suddenly spoke, his voice seemed very loud.
  "If you'd just kept your jaw still when he asked about the wenches instead of tryin' sly stuff, he wouldna found us out, an'" The voice held the exasperation of a renewed grievance.
  "Shut up," the other man said in a tired voice. "Be glad ye're down here carving dirt-balls instead of up there, sweating in your armor and being carved up by the idiot merchants and farmhands that some crazed-wits has stirred up. They're still attacking the castle!"
  He tossed a potato lazily over his shoulder. Sharantyr swallowed, reached upThere!and snatched it silently out of the air. She set it down very carefully at her feet and took another silent step forward.
  "Ye should have heard His Awfulness," the man went on, "when I went up to the kitchens. Fairly frothing, he was. He'd just finished telling the council that he was lord nowso there!cool as ye please, when some wench in leathers comes tumbling down the stairs and nearly runs him through with a sword. He was screaming and scrabbling on the floor, they say, and had to 'port away, to escape. As it was, this gal carved up his entire bodyguard and some of us, too!"
  "What?" the other man gasped. "All by herself? She took out Dannath?"
  "And Uthren, and Balagh. Oh, aye, this must have been some play-pretty, in truth! I'd like to see her, let me tell ye! In the dark, and her alone, if ye catch my warmest thought..."
  "May the gods," said Sharantyr conversationally into his ear, "grant thy every wish."
  As he spun around to face her, she drove her knee up hard. The man could not find breath to scream. He simply bent double, eyes staring at her in disbelief as he collapsed. Sharantyr was already stepping past him to drive her sword into the other man's throat.
  He gurgled and went down. She spun back to the first, caught his throat in a strangling grip to quell any outcry, and said softly, "Now that you've seen me, Zhent butcher, I'm afraid I'm going to have to turn down your 'warmest thought.' Here, have a potato." She plucked a smallish potato from the table, rammed it into his mouth, and held it there as her blade went into his stomach.
  The body bucked under her, and Sharantyr felt sick. If he cried out she might die, so she held him down, vomited all over him violently, and then picked up her sword again. She held her aching ribs for a moment and leaned against the wall to clear her head before moving on.
  The corridor ended in steps leading up into a passage heavy with the smell of stew. Her stomach lurched again.
  Sharantyr shook her head and stepped boldly into the hall. She strode down it, past open doors and people chopping wood and bustling about stoking cookfires. One sad-faced, gray-haired woman caught sight of her, but Sharantyr raised a finger to her lips and went on. No alarm was raised behind her.
  The passage ran east and upward. Sharantyr went up with it and was almost relieved to enter a room full of sprawled Wolves, half out of their armor, with a gaming board on a table in their midst and bloodied weapons leaning against the walls.
  She tore into them, slashing and stabbing like a maniac. Startled men cursed, scrambled to reach weapons, writhed in agonyand died. Covered in their blood, Sharantyr went on. Gods grant that after this day she would never have to kill again.
  But it is the nature of men, she thought savagely, remembering Elminster's dry voice at a campfire long ago, to forget promises, to break agreementsand to kill.
  "Gods curse and damn all Zhent Wolves!" she roared, close to tears. Her outcry brought running, booted feet and their Zhentilar owners with them, many blades raised against her.
  With a wild cry, Sharantyr charged in among them, whirling and leaping, her blade dancing and singing around her. She was no equal to Storm, or even Florin or Dove of the Knights, but they were not here and she was, and there were evil men to be struck down so that a dale might live again, and Elminster find a peaceful refuge for a day or three, andIt suddenly seemed to Sharantyr that she'd been fighting for a very long time, perhaps years, without a break, and that the blood spattering her now would never wash off. She began to cry as she fought.
  They say in Zhentil Keep that women who weep with swords in their hands are widows of the slain. If a Zhentilar rides into a place where the hand of Zhentil Keep's armies has been felt before, and women weep and run for swords at the sight of the black-helmed warriors, he will take special care to slay those women, for they will not rest, it is said, until they have avenged their husbands or died trying, to join them in the Realm of the Fallen.
  Wolves drew back from her in horror as old tales they'd heard as boys, scoffed at as youths, and forgotten as men came alive before their eyes. They stumbled back, faces white, as the woman in slashed and tattered leathers leapt and darted among them, dealing swift, endless darkness with a battered blade.
  "Die, damn you!" she wept, and gave them death.
  "How did she get in?" one man raged, parrying with all his might.
  "What boots it?" another yelled back. "Run! Run, if you would live! Ruuuughh!" Sharantyr's long blade found his throat from behind, and his run ended there in a dying plunge to the stone floor.
  In the end they all broke and ran, those who could move at all, leaving her panting and blood-drenched, alone with the dead. Sharantyr cried and cried, kneeling among death, until she could cry no more.
  She rose, white-faced in the torchlight, and thought of Stormcloak. He was the real foe, he and his mages. He must die.

18
Cheerless Obedience to Mages

  As Sharantyr's sobs died away, Lord Angruin Stormcloak, striding importantly from his chambers to the great hall, heard their last echoes and frowned. What was a woman doing in this part of the castle? Had one of the men? He sighed and had drawn breath to curse their waywardness when his eyes fell on men running toward him, terrified, blades drawn.
  "Hold!" he roared, reaching for a wand. Was this some sort of treachery? "Stand, all of you! Answer me. Why are you running?"
  They came to a clattering halt before his fury. Men shifted and would not look at him.
  "L-Lord," one armsman said, fear full in his voice, "there's a womana dragon she is, with a sword! I saw her kill ten of us or more, and"
  "And so you fled, all of you," Stormcloak said with contempt. He looked coldly around at them all, eyeing men now clearing throats and exchanging glances and looking very uneasy indeed. "Are you warriors?"
  Silence answered him. "Are you men?"
  Nods, and more silence.
  Stormcloak took a step forward. "Are you Zhentilar?"
  "Aye, Lord."
  "Yes, Lord."
  Stormcloak nodded wolfishly. "Good," he said with deep sarcasm. "I had begun to wonder about that." Then his voice changed again. "And what do Zhentilar warriors do?"
  "Obey, Lord."
  " 'Obey when told to slay,' isn't that how the song goes?" Stormcloak corrected.
  Nods answered him again. Stormcloak looked around at them all.
  "Obey whom?"
  A man swallowed. "Z-Zhentarim mages, Lord."
  Stormcloak gave him a brittle smile. "And why do you obey mages, all of you?" He looked around at them all again. In the end, to break the heavy silence, he answered his own question. "You obey magesmyself, for instancebecause if you don't, we'll unleash magic on you more terrible than any blade, more painful than any wound!"
  He looked at them as the passage rang with those last shouted words, and let the echoes die away before continuing.
  "Warriors who run one way can face one womanwith a sword," he added with a sneer. "Warriors who run the other way will face me," he said, raising his wand with slow menace and a silky smile.
  In silence, the men called Wolves by the folk of the High Dale turned sullenly, raised their swords, and went back down the passage. Slowly.
  
  Sharantyr stalked forward on silent feet, like a hunting cat. Many had fled down this passage. If she knew Zhents, they'd soon be back this way, a mage in their midst ready to use a spell or a wand to smite her down and impress all the warriors who watched.
  So another way would be better. Were there no side passages in this place? She glanced this way and that as she went, and in the end chose a stair going up. If she could not go around, she must go over. She had only one life to lose and could not afford to fight fairly, or to face large groups of thirsty swords or a mage in a large open space.
  "Well, then, Stormcloak," she said aloud, "let us see if one Knight with a sword can bring you down. It's been done to Zhentarim before."
  "Who's that? Maerelee?" a voice asked from the head of the stair.
  "No," Sharantyr replied truthfully, coming steadily on up the stairs. "It's me."
  Then she was level with the man: a Wolf in armor, frowning warily, sword out. The weapon swept up as he saw her. "Who are you?" he challenged. "I've not seen you before, here or in the dale."
  "I am your bane," she said calmly, walking toward him. Her expressionless face did not change as he tried to bat the sword out of her hand with his own. Nor did it change when, at her sudden lunge, he found himself two fingers away from death. Nor after, as he parried frantically, countered and found himself forced to parry even faster. He turned to run and she sprang after him, landing hard on his running legs.
  He fell heavily, and her blade stabbed down as she landed atop him.
  When she rolled back up to her feet, he lay still on the stones, facedown. Sharantyr looked down at him for a moment, sighed, and went on. Just how many Zhents were crawling about this castle?
  "It only takes one to kill thee," she heard Elminster's long-ago voice tell her, and smiled wryly. Thanks, Old Mage. Well said. On with it, then.
  She found the next one just inside the first room her passage entered, heading east. He was sharpening his sword and reacted with commendable speed, grinning as he whipped his blade at her stomach.
  This Wolf obviously considered himself a matchless swordsman. Sharantyr parried two lightning-fast thrusts, leaned close to spit into his eyes, stamped on his toes, ducked her blade under his parryhe was good at attacking but not so good at holding off attacksand ran him through.
  She left him twisting in agony and snarling curses at her, waving his blade weakly and ineffectually at her from the floor. Mielikki forgive me for what I've had to become, she prayed silently. I've made myself a worse butcher than any Zhentilar soldier!
  Shuddering, she opened the door at the end of the short passage she was traversing, found herself in a bunk room with four startled Zhents, sighed, and started slaying again. Just how long had she been killing? There were some days of her life that she'd very much like to forget forever, and couldn't in her darkest dreams. This was definitely turning into one of those days.
  * * * * *
  "This is fast becoming one of those days," Itharr said wearily as the Harpers battered their way through another door, stolen shields held high to ward off crossbow bolts or thrown spears from the Wolves waiting beyond. None came, so they flung the shields down and charged.
  "You're not getting bored, are you?" Belkram asked in mock concern.
  At his shoulder, Gedaern grinned and cocked his head to survey both the Harpers.
  "Are the two of ye always like this?"
  "Worse," Belkram replied mildly as three Wolves in full plate armor shouldered aside an anxious servant with a halberd and lumbered forward to meet them. " 'Ware, brothers!"
  The two Harpers stepped forward to meet the charge. The Wolves came at them swinging heavy battle-axes in great roundhouse swings the lightly armored men could not hope to stop except with their bodies.
  "Back!" Belkram called, waving a hand at the older dalesmen. He ran back to where they'd thrown down the shields, snatched one, and threw it to Itharr. Itharr ducked under a swing, dropped the shield, and had to scramble away to avoid being beheaded. The Wolves came on, grinning through the bars of their full helms.
  "Itharr, you do the sticking!" Belkram called, and laid hands on the body of a Wolf he'd killed breaths before.
  One Wolf charged him. Belkram heaved the corpse up into a cradled position across his own chest, puffing under the weight, and dumped it into the Wolf's swing, dragging axe and arm to the floor. The corpse's arms flopped loosely. Belkram sprang over them to land with both feet on the man's axe-wielding arm. The man roared hollowly inside his helm as Itharr arrived, daggers in both hands, to drive them into the sallet's eye slits. The roaring stopped abruptly.
  The two Harpers sprang away just in time, leaping and rolling to avoid the wild, chopping blows of the other two axes.
  There came a shuffling sound from behind them, and the dalesmen trotted past, carrying a heavy wooden table like a ram. They flung it into one of the Wolves, knocking him over, then snatched out their blades to attack the other Wolf together.
  The Wolf drove one to the floor with his first blow. His second hacking swing struck sparks from their weapons with its fury. A dalesman screamed as his wrist snapped under the impact and his old sword flew from it to clang along the flagstones. Then Belkram leapt in from one side, tackling the Wolf waist-high.
  They went to the floor together, but frantic axe work forced the Harper to break free and roll away without delivering any real blow.
  Itharr was getting up off the table, daggers dripping. The Wolf under it would never rise again.
  There was a shout from the room beyond, and more Wolves rushed into the room. They were lightly armored, but there were six of them.
  Itharr rushed to meet them, trying to keep them entangled in the doorway. "To me, men of the dale!" he called over his shoulder as he sheathed one dagger in his boot and drew his sword again. "To me!"
  His blades met those of the foremost Wolves, hurling them back for an instant. Then he ducked low and lunged in a move Storm had used on himages ago, it seemed. A Wolf made a strangling sound as the blade burst up between his arms to slip into his throat.
  Itharr let go of the blade in an instant, spinning to one side, and avoided the angry counterstrikes of the other Wolves. Then Gedaern of the dale was there, his old broadsword in hand, taking one Wolf's blade on his and darting out an old, hairy hand to clasp the man's other wrist and arrest the streaking dagger it held.
  Itharr spun two Wolves around with a series of lashing blows, forcing them to parry, and then lunged at one. That Wolf crashed backward into the one Gedaern was facing. Both staggered, giving Gedaern an instant to slide his blade free of the Wolf's steel and slash the man across the face. The armsman screamed as blood began to flow, and dropped his sword to clutch at his head.
  Itharr drove another Zhent back with a flurry of lunges, using weight and fury to drive the Wolf who'd run into Gedaern's foe back into him again. This time Itharr's Wolf fell. A breath later, Gedaern took down the man he'd blinded.
  Behind them, Belkram was still circling the armored Wolf with the axe. The man's swings were slower and shrewder now. He was tiring and knew the speed of the man he faced. The Harper wore an eager half-smile as they danced and spun, remembering Storm, sweat glistening on her bare shoulders, as she'd fought her way coolly through Itharr's best blade work, and his own. There was a trick she'd used ...
  Belkram feinted a lunge. The great axe swept up to block it, then drew back a little for a return blow. Belkram flung himself forward in a jump, turned his blade sideways, and thrust it into the back of the man's arms, driving them and the axe upward.
  Then the Harper dropped to the floor, kicking against the flagstones and surging forward into a roll against the Wolf's booted ankles.
  The man toppled, hitting the floor with a metallic crash. An old dalesman sprang forward, almost weeping in rage, and chopped at the man's helm until it rang like a bell.
  The blade glanced off again and again as Belkram found his feet and was forced to deal with a Wolf charging down almost on top of him.
  When he could turn back again, the Harper saw the old dalesman clutching a broken swordit had snapped against the helmand cautiously lifting the Wolf's head. It lolled loosely; the helm had held, but the neck must have given way. The old man knelt beside the man he'd killed and started to cry, gnarled old hands trembling.
  Belkram wheeled and charged back into the fray. From the room beyond, someone called, "Aid! They're in the castle! They've broken in!"
  Another voice called back, "Keep them from the great hall, or the lord'll have our soft bits!"
  "What lord?" the first voice roared back.
  "Stormcloak," was the terse reply.
  The first voice snorted. "If it's him," it said, "let him use his magic to deal with these. Our swords don't seem enough."
  "He'll find you, after, if you shirk your duty."
  "Let him," the first voice responded bitterly, "if he lives. You haven't seen these idiots fight!"
  Belkram grinned savagely, stepped around a dalesman who was falling with a groan, two swords through his body, and drove his sword point into the mouth of another Wolf. "Friend," he called out, "which way is this great hall?"
  After a startled moment, the first voice said laconically, " 'Twould be the most foolish treason to tell you that it's through here, turn right, and behind the double doors at the end of the straight passageso I won't tell you that."
  The voice started to say something more but suddenly rose into a scream and abruptly fell silent.
  "So die all traitors," rumbled a new voice.
  "Hey!" Belkram called, hewing down another Wolf. "I liked that man!"
  "Who speaks?"
  "I do," Belkram yelled. "Who are you to ask?" The last Wolf fell, and he hurried to join Itharr's rush forward to the room beyond.
  There stood a hulking armored form as wide as them both but of their own height. It lowered its war helm, and they had a brief glimpse of blond hair, scarred cheeks, and cold, calculating eyes. "I am Gathen Srund," the rumbling voice came hollowly to them. "I was Left Axe to Lord Longspear. I will avenge him, rebel traitors."
  The armored man lumbered forward, hefting a huge warhammer. There were other Wolves behind him, but they stayed well back to watch.
  The two Harpers looked at each other and darted a glance behind. All the Wolves were down, and three dalesmen were with them. A fourth dalesman sat against a wall, clutching his broken wrist and cursing softly.
  "Have you noticed," Itharr remarked, "how pompous these Zhent bully blades always are? They occupy some place, usurping rightful rule and law, and then squeak of 'rebels' and 'traitors.' It's odd ..."
  "I have noticed that, yes," Belkram replied as the warhammer swung, and they ducked and hastily sprang apart. "Scatter, men!" he added urgently over his shoulder to the dalesmen.
  They needed no urging. Belkram heard the clatter of hasty booted feet receding, then the helm of their foe rang with hollow laughter. "Hah! See them run, large-mouths! What say you now?"
  The two old men threw down their swords, halted by the overturned table, panted for an instant, and then heaved it up to their shoulders and came back to the fray in a stumbling rush.
  Itharr attacked, slashing repeatedly and jabbing at the helm's eye slits, forcing Srund to use his hammer to parry, and pulling it to one side. The table was driven in through the gap Itharr had created, crashing into the Wolf and sending him staggering back.
  "Well met," Belkram replied mildly in answer to Gathen Srund's taunt, as he sprang forward to get the war-hammer. He got a good grasp on it and was promptly dragged and battered about the floor as the awesomely strong Left Axe tried to wrench his weapon free.
  "I wonder what the Right Axe is like?" Itharr asked him, stretching over the struggle to bury his blade in one of the eye slits of the Zhentilar's helm. Gathen stiffened, dropped the hammer, fumbled for it with failing fingers, and fell over on his side with a room-shaking crash.
  The dalesmen rushed forward, but the room was emptying of Zhents as fast as they could flee. The warriors all ran down a passage to the right.
  Belkram got up, breathing heavily, and watched them go. "I wager," he said slowly as he fought for breath, "that we'll. . . soon find out. . . once they get where they're going ... and tell their tale."
  Itharr nodded. "You're right," he said simply.
  Then the two Harpers embraced each other and roared their delight. "What a fight this is!" Itharr shouted happily. "What a fight!"
  The oldest dalesman looked at him, unsmiling, and shook his head. "They're still young, indeed," he said to another white-haired veteran, who only nodded.
  Then they heard men begin to scream, down the passage.
  * * * * *
  Sharantyr came down the dark stairs like a vengeful wind. The lighted passage below was full of worried, running men with weapons. Armored men. Wolves. More to be slain.
  In grim silence she leapt down among them, and started to slay. One fell, and then another. A third slipped, and she was past him to run her blade through a foolish one without armor. He clutched himself and collapsed with a horrible groan, and she was on to the next one. Was she killing with her eyes? Men fell wherever she looked, and the passage was warm with the smell of their blood and fear.
  A fresh group of Wolves came running up the passage. She turned to them with a savage smile. The shortest warrior started the screaming as he tried to turn around and found his fellows in the way.
  Then they were all screaming. Sharantyr had never thought she'd enjoy such a sound.
  The men were fleeing from her. Behind them, bloody and bedraggled men were coming out into the passage, well-used weapons in their hands. Dalesmen!
  She snatched a glance back over her shoulder. Wolves were fleeing in that direction too, falling back to join a guard of armored men in front of a set of closed double doors. In their midst was a dark-haired man in full armor who stood a head taller than the rest. "Hold fast," he said with cold authority. "They cannot pass us."
  Sharantyr gave him a sneer and turned to join the dalesmen in their slaughter. She snuck a glance back, but the man had refused to be drawn out of the guard. He stood coldly waiting as they butchered the few milling Wolves in the passage.
  The lady ranger embraced the two men in leathers she'd seen fight so well in the marketplace and said, "Sharantyr. Knight of Myth Drannor."
  They bowed. "Itharr and Belkram of the Harpers, with true men of the dale."
  They exchanged grins, and one of the old men lumbered forward. "Give us a hug, lass. Then, live or die, I'll do it happily."
  Sharantyr shed a few tears as she put blood-spattered arms around him.
  Then they all turned, in sudden silence, to face the Wolves at the door.
  "Lay down your arms," the tall man said flatly, "or we'll kill you, as painfully as we know how." He looked at them with cold confidence and added, "Consider this: We are warriors of Zhentil Keep. We know much of killing."
  "You certainly know much about dying, after this day," Itharr told him, "if this is all of you there are left."
  "Save your brave words for pleading," the tall man told him contemptuously, "and we may let you live."
  "My thanks to you," Sharantyr told him with biting sarcasm. "Your generous pacifism overwhelms me. 'Tis so sudden and heartfelt."
  The tall man lifted his head, pointing his chin at her. "Bring me that one alive," he told the Wolves around him. "I have . . . plans for her."
  "Aye, Right Axe," several voices murmured in reply.
  Beside Belkram, Gedaern nodded suddenly. "Ah. This one's Heladar's Right Axehis trusty, like, and probably their commander, now. A merchant told me, a few months back, that he's known for cruelty and butchering women and younglings when he gets a chance. Sunthrun Blackshoulder's his name."
  The tall man laughed shortly. "Your merchant friend was right."
  Belkram saluted him with raised sword. "Then it will be a pleasure killing you, Sunthrun Blackshoulder."
  The tall man sneered. "A pleasure you'll never live to see." He drew a blade as long as the shortest dalesman there was tall. Its blade was dull black and menacingly evil.
  Belkram smiled tightly and looked around at Itharr, the dalesmen, and Sharantyr. He collected nods from them all and jerked his head forward. Calmly, unhurrying, they strode down the passage to where the Wolves waited.
  Itharr struck first. His blade met that of one Wolf and thrust it sideways toward another. That man moved to avoid catching two battling blades in the face, and the Wolf on the other side of Itharr moved to take advantage of a chance to strike at the Harper's unprotected side. This opened a gap in the line, and Sharantyr leapt through it to lunge at the Right Axe himself.
  The tall man smiled coldly, parrying with such force that her numbed fingers tingled. Somehow she held on to her sword, but now the men on either side of Blackshoulder were striking at her. She dodged, letting the blade of one man slip past her ear, and ran in under it to open his throat. Behind her, Belkram felled a man and came up against the Right Axe in his turn.
  Sunthrun Blackshoulder attacked with dazzling speed, striking at Belkram's face and throat. Only frantic parries saved the Harper's life. Sharantyr turned, punched the back of a Wolf's neck she found within reach, and lashed out with her blade to cut the Right Axe on the elbow above his free hand.
  Blackshoulder roared and turned on her. Sharantyr leapt to one side, got her arm around the neck of another Wolf, and swung him in front of her as a shield, just in time to take the Right Axe's vicious thrust. She fell back as the tip of his black blade came out of the Wolf's back, parting the plates of his armor as if it were rotten leather.
  Sharantyr rolled on the floor and contrived as she came up to trip another Wolf's feet out from under him. Itharr killed that one, tossing her a smile as he attacked the next. One of the dalesmen gurgled horribly and went down as a blade found his throat.
  They were still killing old men, these Wolves. Angrily Sharantyr ran at the Right Axe again as he shook the corpse from his blade. Belkram hacked down a Wolf to reach Blackshoulder from one side just as the Right Axe's blade came free, and the lady Knight came at him from the other.
  Blackshoulder tried to duck and parry, to force them into each other. It would have been a good move against the inexperienced warriors he obviously thought them to be.
  Both the Harper and the Knight followed the Right Axe's move. As Belkram's blade bound and lifted the Zhentilar's weapon, Sharantyr's sword found the armpit of his raised sword arm. She moved with him, driving it in deep. After a moment's resistance, her blade slid in easily. Right Axe Sunthrun stiffened, spat blood, and collapsed silently to the floor. Gedaern of the dale, intent on a battle of his own, stepped on the Axe's head a moment later and almost apologized before he saw whom he'd trampled.
  "Are there more?" Itharr asked as the Wolf he'd been fighting fell heavily against the wall and slid down it, gauntleted fingers clawing feebly for a hold.
  They looked around. Not a Wolf was left, but Gedaern and the oldest graybeard were the only dalesmen still standing. The two Harpers looked at Sharantyr, and she looked back at them.
  "Shall I?" Itharr asked, waving at the door. Sharantyr smiled.
  Belkram sighed. "Itharr, one always opens doors for a lady," he said in mock despair.
  Itharr bowed and opened the door silently. They went in.

19
How High Dale Changed Hands

  The great hall seemed full of councillors, all of them frightened and trying not to show it. They fumbled nervously for swords as the guard of Wolves seated just inside the door stopped looking bored and leapt up to bar the way with bared blades.
  Sharantyr did not slow down. With a set, grim face she struck aside the blade of the first Wolf and leaned past him to put her blade into the face of the Wolf behind, who was still rising. His gurgle as he slumped down again died away unheard amid the sudden babble of fearful voices.
  "Gods! They've reached ushere!"
  "A woman! Who?"
  "Zarduil's down! She's killed Zarduil! Wasn't he Heladar's best?"
  "The menthose two! They're the ones who slew Longspear!"
  "Steady! The guards can handle them!" Stormcloak snapped. He turned eyes of cold iron on Sharantyr, who looked icy death back at him, then deliberately turned his back on the intruders and waved the councillors back down into their seats.
  "Ignore them," the wizard said coldly. "They will be dead in a moment."
  Several of the councillors shot frightened looks past him, their expressions telling all who had eyes to see that they were not so confident. Another looked on with silent interest.
  The leather worker, Blakkal Mord, had once been a fighting man. The scars on his face and arms betrayed his past to all. None in the High Dale, he was sure, knew that he was still a warrior, in the service of the Cult of the Dragon. If they had known, he would not be here still. This Stormcloak, or one of the lesser Zhentarim magelings, would have seen to that.
  His place here was not to act openly, which was no doubt the reason he'd not been probed beyond the shielding strength of the little ring that he never took off, the one that masked his thoughts. He would save himself, and otherwise be as loudly ineffectual as these other councillors.
  Nonetheless, he was a man of the sword. He knew battle skill, and he agreed with what the excitable Moonviper had said. Zarduil had been one of Heladar's best.
  Zarduil should not have fallen. Blakkal leaned forward to see better. The door guard that Stormcloak had set for this meeting was more than the usual three thickheads, and their relief man had been added to make up a foursome of competent bladesmen. Heladar's former bodyguards had ordersZhentil Keep's orders, Blakkal had no doubtto diligently protect and serve the lord of the dale, whoever that lord was. Wherefore they, too, had been at the doors: Zarduil, Mashann, and Raeve.
  None of those three were men Blakkal cared to face, even in an unfair fight. They were Zhentilar veteransmen of steel nerves, steel wrists, and the swiftness of serpents.
  And they were being beaten. Blakkal watched one of the two menHarpers? Thief-adventurers from Cormyr?dart through Mashann's guard and run his sword tip in under the shoulder plate of the big man's armor. Something even more surprising happened next. The man in leathers ducked and wrenched and got his blade back out again to parry before Mashann's own fast sword touched him.
  Blakkal did not even try to look like he was listening to Stormcloak. The self-styled Lord of the High Dale was blathering something about treachery from neighboring realms, as if only Zhentarim were allowed to usurp the thrones of strategically located farming dales.
  Other councillors watched the fight just as intently. There were no other guards in the room. The rest had been outside the doors. The rebels should never have reached this hall.
  On at least two of the watching faces, naked hope and glee were written. The tailor, Rundethwhat was his last name? Hobble? Hobyltar!normally laconic and stone faced, had eyes as bright as new coins and was struggling not to smile. Down the table, stout Gulkin was grinning openly.
  Stormcloak shot them a look that had a cutting edge to it. Blakkal smiled; the lord was beginning to learn how Heladar had felt, sitting in that chair with a table of men who were openly trying to bring about his fall. Boots may fit just as well on other feet, as the Sembians put it.
  There was a crash as a Wolf and one of the men in leathers went through some of the chairs together, ending up on the floor wriggling like eels as they tried to get their blades into each other.
  Then Mashann staggered back on his heels, raised a failing hand to his throat, and crashed backward to the floor. The man who leapt over him was only six running steps from the table where they sat. Timid Jatham scrabbled for his dagger. Stormcloak scowled but couldn't help but to break off and watch.
  The last Zhentilar veteran reached sideways with his blade, and the charging man in leathers had to hastily dance back to ward off seeking steel. Raeve held the man for a moment, but the only other Wolf still standing was dropping his blade and sagging slowly to the floor after it, that wild-haired woman standing grim over him.
  Raeve cast one look back at them all, shook his head, and as the tattered intruders advanced, suddenly ducked and bolted through them, making for the door. Steel rang on his warding blade, and then he was through.
  Stormcloak roared at him. "Raeve! As you are loyal to Zhentil Keep, hold! Stand and fight for your lord, or by all the dark gods, I'll turn you into a dung worm!"
  Raeve turned his head as he reached the doorway, sword rising to guard his exit. He looked at Sharantyr. Silent and blood-spattered, she glided toward him.
  Raeve turned his eyes to meet Stormcloak's hot gaze, shook his head silently, and was gone.
  The lord wizard's furious magic missile twisted in the air to become a beam of shining glass shards, but they shivered and crashed against unyielding stone beside the door. A head too far to the left, and a breath too late to impress Raeve.
  Sharantyr turned smoothly to join the silent advance across the great hall. Councillors screamed, cursed, and toppled chairs in their haste to flee, as the High Dale they had ruled so cruelly and casually reached bloody weapons for them.
  Lord Angruin Stormcloak trembled with rage and dawning fear. Where had these ... these vagabonds come from? These three in leather, they were no dalefolk! They were Harpers, or worse, sent to bring him down.
  Sharantyr had come for him that day, through guard after guard. Her sword arm was so weary that she could barely hold her blade, and stinging sweat and blood were running into her eyes. Only a few steps more and she would have this wizard.
  Only a few steps more, but she suddenly could not find the strength to run.
  The snarling wizard drew back his hand and pointed directly at her as he shouted words that echoed and hissed, and crushed something small in his other hand. Black blood ran out between his fingers, and he cast a wrinkled thing awaya leech.
  Sharantyr could only go on, blade raised, face like stone. She was only three paces away ... two, now
  The still-pointing finger erupted in writhing black light, boiling upward. A moment later, a rain of black daggers was falling toward her.
  The lady ranger tried to struggle on, waving her blade to ward off the dark points. Her weapon swept through the daggers as though they were so much smoke, but when the blades struck an instant later, they were cold and very hardand they went in deep.
  Sharantyr screamed in pain and fell. Writhing on the cold, hard stone floor, clutching at her arms and gut in shuddering agony, she heard Stormcloak laugh.
  The wizard put a foot on his chair and gained the top of the table, still laughing. He spun about to stand facing the attackers, as frantic councillors raised their weapons in a protective line in front of him, yelling for him to use his spells to slay. The two Harpers slashed at the waiting blades, but it was quickly apparent that some of the councillors were not the frightened tremble-wits they'd have others believe. Steel rang on steel, and the two Harpers were fighting for their lives, two weary dalesmen at their sides. One of the men threw a dagger at the wizard, trying to ruin whatever magic he was working, but as it left his fingers he knew he was too late.
  Stormcloak's rolling laughter came again. Lightning leapt from his spread hands in crackling, spitting arcs, a bolt from each finger. He flicked his hands to lash all the rebels with the reaching lightning.
  As the bolts leapt, however, they were changing, and Stormcloak's laughter faltered. One of his spells had twisted again. Where lightning had crackled with fury, feeble blue sparks were fading away around a cluster of ceramic vessels and earthenware pottery that had not been there an eye-blink earlier.
  As Sharantyr gasped and groaned on the stones, crockery rained down out of thin air to shatter around her. A jagged shard laid open her cheek in one long gash as it spun past, and she ducked her head, hoping nothing would find her eyes or throat. Then the crashing sounds were gone and sudden silence fell upon the hall.
  "Very impressive," a new, rather acerbic voice said into the thick of the hush, commenting calmly from the doorway. "But if ye hope to challenge Manshoon for control of the Zhentarim someday, ye'll have to do better than a few teacups."
  An old man stood there, a gaunt but wiry old man in tattered robes, with long, flowing white hair and a longer beard. He stood taller than most men but was as thin as a sharp-tongued noblewoman. It hardly seemed possible that he had the strength to hold up the naked high constable, who dripped blood from many half-healed wounds and still trailed the long, heavy chains of his enslavement from arms that were gnarled and knotted with muscle.
  Yet the old man not only held up the wounded giant, he half-carried him forward into the room and leaned him carefully against the wall. When he straightened up, his eyes were like two blue-white flames as they met those of Angruin Stormcloak.
  "Ill met," he said, and every soft word cut like a leaping knife as it left his lips. His gaze bored deep into Stormcloak's eyes, and it was the Zhentarim who looked away first.
  "Elminster of Shadowdale!" gasped Cheth Moonviper of the councillors, and ducked under the table.
  Angruin Mvyrvult Stormcloak paled and snatched at the wand in his belt. He half expected the world to explode before he ever got it out, but exultantly he got it free, aimed, and hissed a word only he knew.
  Lightning leapt and crackled across the suddenly darker great hall toward the old man in tattered robes who stood empty-handed, hair wild-tangled and blood running down his face from a cut on his forehead.
  And Elminster stood there and waited for the lightning to come to him, watching calmly.
  * * * * *
  Ylyndaera Mulmar smiled a mirthless smile as a Wolf came out of a door ahead, saw them, and with a startled oath whipped out his sword. She advanced steadily, Ulraea trembling at her side.
  They were both startled when Tanshlee suddenly burst past them, shrieking, "You! You're the one! You!"
  She hurled herself on the Wolf, knocking his blade aside more by luck than skill, and took him to the floor, sobbing and raking with her nails.
  The women broke into a run. In an instant the Wolf would find room and strength to get his blade out from under her, and then it would all be over.
  It was Jharina who threw the mace she'd plucked up several rooms back, while they were still marveling at being inside the castle and unseen for so long. It wobbled through the air drunkenly and just touched the Wolf's shoulder as it went on its way past him.
  He jerked, dropped his sword from numb, burning fingers, and snarled in startled pain. Tanshlee's hands found his throat.
  She held on, white-faced, eyes blazing, as he gasped and struck at her and thrashed about, trying to break free of the deep-sunk fingers squeezing out his life. But he was too young to think of breaking those fingers, or gouging at the reproachful, staring eyes of his nemesis, or even breaking her hold by shattering her jaw with a punchand so his face went dark and then gray, and he sagged back and died.
  Daera and Ulraea stood over him, but the Wolf did not escape. They let Tanshlee have her revenge on the one who'd wronged hermonths ago, nowand stood silently by as she sobbed atop the body of the unknown man who'd fathered the child within her.
  Ulraea looked at Ylyndaera, standing there with her sword ready, and saw a much older woman than the girl who'd been hidden away in the mill. Daera raised eyes dark with fury to meet hers and said quietly, "Let's go kill us some Wolves."
  They put. a sword ready beside Tanshlee in case she needed it and wouldn't pick up the one the Wolf had wielded, left her in her own dark world of tears, and went on down the passage.
  Ahead was the din of battlethe clash of sword upon sword, shouts, and cracklingsbut muffled as if from behind a door. The three women exchanged glances. "The great hall," Ulraea said. "Of course."
  Daera swept hair out of her eyes impatiently, swung her sword at nothing to loosen her arm, which was beginning to achehow did men swing these things all day?took a deep breath, and said, "Come on."
  They'd rushed a dozen steps before fourno, sixWolves came out of a side passage. The warriors halted, half-lowered their weapons, and smiled slow, cruel smiles as they began to advance slowly.
  "Oh, gods," Ulraea said in her throat.
  Daera laughed. "There are only six of them," she said loudly, "and Tanshlee showed us just how easily they die. Are you with me?"
  Without waiting for an answer, she charged. Ulraea and Jharina exchanged despairing glances and followed.
  Jharina's mace, lying unnoticed on the floor, tripped the first Wolf. He fell heavily, and Ylyndaera's blade slid into and out of his throat before he could even draw back the breath that the fall had driven out of him.
  The Wolves saw a young maid rising to meet them, bloody blade in hand. One of them cursed, spun about, and ran. The others watched him go and then followed, breaking into frantic flight, as Ylyndaera's astonished laughter rang out down the passage.
  "For the dale!" she called after them. "For the High Dale, free again!"
  Beside her, Ulraea burst into tears.
  * * * * *
  Not far away, lightning reached the old man.
  Sharantyr, struggling to her knees in pain, found the breath to scream, "No!" but as is the way with most despairing screams, the gods did not hear her.
  Or perhaps they did. The blue-white bolt of death did not strike, but coiled in the air around Elminster's hand where a ring glowed suddenly blue-white in answer. The lightning coiled, gathering speed like an aroused serpent, then lashed back out, arrow-straight, across the great hall.
  The wizard on the table stiffened as the lightning found a home.
  The Lord of the High Dale shrieked, dancing involuntarily. Smoke curled out from his robes. Then the lightning was gone, leaving him staggering in the midst of a faint haze of smoke.
  He turned a face of clenched hatred and pain to Elminster and gasped only one word as his hand darted into his robes, came out with something dark and round and metal, and hurled it.
  "Die!"
  The sphere flew through the air, expanding into an opening latticework of metal bands as it approached the Old Mage. In the instant before the sphere struck, Sharantyr recognized it as another set of iron bands of Bilarro.
  The Old Mage stood quite still. The bands flared wide to go around him, pulsed with a brief flash of light, and then shrank with horrible speed, drawing down around the old man.
  The two Harpers battled the councillors with frantic haste. One of the councillors fell with a ragged cry, but there were still many blades between them and the wizard atop the table.
  Stormcloak crouched and drained a flask from his belta healing potion, Sharantyr had no doubtand straightened, wiping his lips. As she struggled to find strength, biting her lip and whimpering against stabbing pain, the Zhentarim wizard calmly drew forth a glass bead from his robes, smiled a brittle smile down on her, and cast a spell that brought a shimmering sphere into being about him.
  She'd seen one before: a globe of invulnerability or one of its variants. No ball of fire or bolt of lightning could touch Angruin now. The Lord of the High Dale drew himself up and sneered down at Elminster, who stood wrapped in tightening bands of iron.
  "Toothless old men seem to have haunted me of late, hurling proud, empty memories of power against meuntil I destroy them. If you had any wits left, graybeard, you'd stay at home, dreaming and grumbling by the fire, and leave mages of real power well alone."
  Elminster whispered something, and the iron bands shuddered and fell away from him, clattering about his feet like so many hoops stripped from a barrel.
  Stormcloak stared at him in astonishment. Elminster strolled forward, wand in hand, as if he were in a hurry to get to the other side of a peaceful garden, and observed mildly, "Talk grows no more expensive as the years pass, does it?"
  The wand in his hand pulsed, and spat two magic missiles. Two councillors stiffened, and one hadn't even time to groan before Gedaern of the dale hewed him to the floor.
  Councillor Xanther watched from the darkness under a table. So this was the Old Mage of Shadowdale, one old man who'd done nothing so far beyond the powers of the wand he held and a ring he wore. His magic must be gone, or failing. The Brotherhood could yet win this day.
  How, though, with Stormcloak hurling death in all directions? Stormcloak must prevail, if Elminster was to be defeated at all. Could the Old Mage be compelled to surrender the knowledge of where some hoard lay hidden, how a particular spellbook was guarded, and what words governed a certain staff or rod or wand? That old man's head must be stuffed with a vast wealth of such thoughts, treasure beyond the grasping of most mages, but how could he be kept alive to reveal it?
  From outside the great hall came the thunder of running, booted feet pounding on stone, followed by the sound of a young woman laughing, her voice high and gleeful. "For the dale!" she called. "For the High Dale, free again!" The door of the hall burst open, and a group of wild-eyed women burst in, blades flashing in their hands.
  The councillors exchanged fearful glances. The castle was lost. They were doomed. The people would probably tear them apart bare-handed!
  Elminster's unhurried walk took him to the woman in tattered leathers, still groaning on the floor. He took a ring from his fingernot the ring that had warded off the lightning, but one from his other handand slipped it onto her finger. Then he scuttled away from her, facing Stormcloak, a hand darting beneath his robes.
  "Still so haughty, Zhentarim?" he asked, raising mocking eyebrows.
  Angruin Stormcloak snarled at him and moved his hands angrily in the motions of a spell.
  * * * * *
  Irreph Mulmar tried not to gasp too loudly. Pain still throbbed deep inside with every move he made. He crawled slowly across the stone floorone he'd strode across often enough in years before this one, covering the distance that now seemed so agonizingly long in a few swift strides. He watched the old wizard skillfully take the Zhent usurper's attention onto himself, and managed a smile. Gods, he hurt. He'd not worn that healing ring nearly long enough.
  He crawled and crawled, the heavy layers of leather weighing on his shoulders. Elminster had found the hide in a room near the stables, and they'd wrapped his chains in it to silence them. The chains were heavier by far, now.
  Trying to ignore their cold weight, he crawled past the still-writhing lady ranger. She wore the ring now, and needed it worse than he did by the look of her face. Gods, but she must have cut her way through most of the Wolves in the castle to get here! Irreph took a good look at her and managed a smile. The tearing agony of his movement turned it into a grimace as he went on. The high constable looked up at the table through a growing mist of red pain and wondered if he'd get there in time.
  * * * * *
  Stormcloak hurled lightning again. Councillors fled or cowered behind chairs all around the room as the white light flashed across to Elminster, was turned aside by his ring, and crackled back at the Zhentarim mage.
  The shimmering globe around the mage absorbed the lightning. It was still sputtering and fading when the angry mage cast his next spell. Nothing happened.
  * * * * *
  Outside the castle walls, a tree tore up out of the earth with a noise like tearing canvas, shot up into the air past an astonished farmer, and headed west.
  * * * * *
  Stormcloak snarled his bafflement. His hands were already moving again. His only power lay in his magic, and nothing he'd seen yet could withstand it forever. This old man must fall.
  Magic missiles streamed from Stormcloak's fingers in a glowing swarm that leapt and darted restlessly as they sped toward the Old Mage. Around and around him they swooped and ducked, only to turn back on Stormcloak and fade away as the ring on Elminster's hand glowed more brightly.
  That glow was brighter and stronger than it had been. Stormcloak's eyes widened, then narrowed. Could the old fool be wearing a Myth Drannan ring?
  Primitive things, made long ago, they had limits and could be overloaded by the sheer amount of Art hurled against them in a short time. Stormcloak grinned. Well, then...
  Missiles streamed again from the Zhentarim's fingers, and the ring grew brighter as it hurled them back at him.
  Angruin Myrvult Stormcloak laughed aloud. His hands moved again in the same smooth, rapid gestures as before.
  The two Harpers hacked at those councillors who stood against them in the service of Zhentil Keep, or perhaps out of fear for the magic of the man who stood on the table behind them. The councillors knew how swiftly and harshly he would reward treachery, and so fought with the agility and recklessness of desperation. Their line held.
  Magic missiles swooped and swarmed around the battling swordsmen and streaked at the old man with the white beard again.
  Elminster stood watching them come. His face did not change, but the ring on his finger was fast becoming too bright to look upon. Glowing missiles circled it like sparks flying about a smith's grinding wheel and swept away again.
  The Zhentarim smiled like a cat playing with cornered prey, and his hands moved again. Sharantyr stared up at him from the floor, sudden tears blurring her sight. Blazing missiles burst forth from his fingers again and flew over her.
  Throat suddenly dry, Sharantyr turned to look. There was a sudden flash and a roar, and a puff of smoke hid the Old Mage from her.
  As she choked for breath, frantically trying to scream, Sharantyr heard the Lord of the High Dale's low, coldly satisfied laughter.

20
Feast, Fire, and Fury

  Even though Elminster was braced, waiting for the magic to strike, his body still shookand it still hurt. The ring of spell-turning, old when this Stormcloak's great-great-grandsire was a babe, shattered under the onslaught of Art.
  As Elminster had known it would. He closed his eyes against the flash and spread his fingers wide to keep them from being torn apart.
  The ring burst, its shards leaping from him, and much of his nearby flesh went with it.
  The Old Mage clutched the wrist of his torn, smoking hand and roared in pain. Well, he thought with surprising calm, staring at what was left of that appendage, those who spend centuries hurling spells must bear their share of spells coming back at them. But holy Mystra, it hurt!
  Belkram laid open a councillor's face and literally ran up the man as he fell, leaping for the table. Too late. Too cursed often, he thought grimly, Harper blades came too late!
  Stormcloak's triumphant laughter broke off long enough for him to hiss a word, and he abruptly vanished from in front of the astonished Harper.
  Belkram slashed empty air in case the wizard had merely cloaked himself with invisibility, then looked wildly around, sword held high.
  Sharantyr's raw-throated scream warned him. The Zhentarim mage stood beside Elminster, wearing a sneering smile. His hand was coming up from his robes quite slowly, and a long dagger gleamed in it.
  A dagger with a tapering, up-curving blade, a blade of black glass that winked and sparkled with many tiny, moving lights.
  "A death dagger!" Itharr gasped, turning from the councillor he'd been about to kill. "He is a Zhentarim!"
  Stormcloak gave him that cruel smile and waved a hand. Magic missiles burst from his fingers and streaked across the hall.
  Itharr stiffened as they struck him, light flaring for an instant. Then he collapsed with a groan.
  The Zhentarim laughed again in triumph and raised the dagger above his head. He met Sharantyr's horrified eyes, and she cried weakly, "No! No!" as she crawled toward him. A sudden spasm of agony made her clench her teeth, swallowing her cry. She shook her head, helpless in pain.
  Angruin Myrvult Stormcloak looked down at Elminster, dagger winking in his hand as he slowly raised it, and savored the moment.
  And then the forgotten Irreph Mulmar rose up behind the Zhent wizard like a vengeful ghost.
  The rattle of chains warned the Zhentarim. Stormcloak spun around, hands rising to ward off a heavy length of chain that swept into him like the mighty slap of a breaking wave. The first blow shattered the dagger and the arm that held it, and left Angruin gasping in pain. Tiny lightnings fizzed and crackled to the floor as the death dagger's magic fled.
  "It's too late for you to learn, wizard," Irreph rumbled, pain making his words sharp and hissing, "to beware toothless old men." His shoulders rolled like the aroused leap of an angry old lion, and the chain swung again.
  The second terrible blow split Angruin's skull like the shattering of a hurled egg striking a stone wall, and nearly tore his jaw off. The corpse clawed at the air convulsively and vainlyand fell.
  Irreph stood looking down at the body for a long time, chain clenched in his hand for another blow, but the mage called Stormcloak did not move again.
  Silence fell as dalefolk and councillors left off trying to kill each other. The high constable finally lifted his head and looked slowly around the room as if seeing it for the first time. His gaze fell on the Old Mage, who knelt clutching the wrist of a blackened, broken hand.
  "My thanks, Elminster," Irreph said thickly, "for giving me my home back again. We must feast together, later." And with a rattle of chains, he collapsed atop the body of the wizard who had dared to usurp his post.
  Elminster shook his head to clear the pain and started the long crawl to where Sharantyr lay. Her eyes had opened again, and the smile creeping onto her face was glorious to see.
  "Hurry up and heal, lass," Elminster growled as he drew near. "I'm in fair need of that ring meself."
  From atop the table Belkram said, "Drop your weapons, councillors, if you would live. All who fight on will be declaring themselves Zhentarim ... and will know their fate soon, and painfully."
  As he looked coldly down at the councillors, dalefolk encircled them with weapons ready, and Itharr struggled to his feet.
  The trapped men looked around the room, and steel clattered to the stones as councillor after councillor held up empty hands.
  Belkram waved his sword at the chairs around the table. "Sit," he suggested. "I'm sure the high constable will have some words for you before long."
  Through the open doors there came the ring of steel on steel, running feet, and a short, cut-off scream.
  Gedaern looked up at Belkram and said, "We can guard theseand Irreph, the gods bless him. Go hunting Wolves, Harper." He grinned and looked over many sprawled bodies. "The pair of you certainly seem to have the hang of it."
  Belkram looked back at him and smiled rather sadly. "It seems that way, doesn't it?" he replied softly, and looked to his comrade-at-arms. "Itharr?"
  "Here," Itharr said grimly, rubbing at parts of him that hurt. "II'll be with you, ready to end this slaughter . . . if you get down off that table slowly and give me time to catch my breath."
  From somewhere nearby in the castle came a wild yell, a clash of weapons, and another screamthis one long and lingering.
  The two Harpers exchanged glances as Belkram's feet found the floor, "By the sounds of it," he replied, shouldering his way warily through the councillors, "there may be no Zhent Wolves left to see to."
  Itharr only grunted. He limped as they started back across the great hall, but they were both trotting, blades in hand, as they went out into the passage.
  Ulraea stared after them. "They seem more like things of iron and untiring magic than men."
  "They're men," Gedaern told her with a light in his eyes. He hefted the weapon in his hands and stared at the doors the two had left by. "More than thatthey're Harpers."
  * * * * *
  "Better, lass?"
  "It's 'Shar,' remember?" Sharantyr reminded him with a mock severe look.
  Elminster spread innocent hands. "I'm an old man, lassShar. I forget things, like all old men." He looked her slowly up and down as if seeing her for the first time. By the time his gaze rose again to meet her own, Sharantyr found herself blushing.
  "Ye look whole now," he added. "What say ye?"
  Sharantyr smiled ruefully and handed him the ring. "Well enough, Old Mage. Your turn."
  Elminster put the ring on his finger and said briskly, "Good. I prefer to heal while I'm up and doing. Come." He plucked at her arm and set off for the doors at a steady stride.
  Sharantyr followed. Behind them, Gedaern shouted, "Hey!"
  Elminster did not pause. Sharantyr looked back.
  "Both of you," Gedaern said. "You heard the Harper! Hold!"
  Elminster turned at the door, and said, "Guard those councillors well, as he bid ye, young man. I've other business to see to yet." And he was gone.
  " 'Young man'?" Gedaern sputtered angrily. Sharantyr spread apologetic hands and followed the Old Mage.
  One of the councillors watching them go frowned thoughtfully and reached inside his tunic.
  Something shattered loudly on the stone floor. When Gedaern whirled around, darkness was already spreading smoky tendrils toward him.
  * * * * *
  Elminster moved slowly and kept his injured hand hidden in the sleeve of his robe. Sharantyr caught up to him and put a hand on his shoulder.
  "Elminster," she said, earnestly, "I'm well enough to get about, and fight if need be, but you! Are you in any shape to be strolling around in the midst of a battle?"
  The Old Mage gave her a tired look. "The answer to that one, lass, is the same one it's always been: I have to be."
  He looked down a side passage and added, "So rest ye assured, I am. We go this way."
  Sharantyr rolled her eyes and followed him. "Just answer me this, then. Where are we going, and why?"
  "Ah, lass," the answer floated back to her down the dim passage. "Sages and drunkards alike have been arguing over answers to that double-bladed question for longer than I've been alive."
  "Elminster!" Sharantyr wailed despairingly.
  Behind them a councillor slipped out of the great hall in the concealing smoke born of the magical globe he'd shattered. He trotted to where he could watch the lady ranger and the old man in robes turn into the side passage.
  Shouts echoed not far off, followed by the sound of running feet drawing nearer. The councillor frowned and looked hurriedly around. Selecting a certain door, he slipped into the room behind it, closed the door in silent haste, and in the darkness felt his way past the table he knew would be there to the floor beyond.
  On his knees, he drew a slim, smooth wand out of a concealed sheath on his forearm and muttered a word. The wand pulsed with a faint purplish-white radiance, and from its tip a ghostly white glow spun away to form ... an eyeball.
  The orb stared back at him, looking very much like his own eye for a silent, floating instant, then faded slowly from view.
  The councillor slid the wand back into its place, took a hidden dagger out of its sheath inside his boot, and lay down on his face, hiding the hand that grasped the dagger under him, his other hand sprawled as if lifeless.
  He blew dust away to ward off sneezing and lay still in the chill darkness. The invisible eye, driven by his will, slipped under the door and sped down the passage in pursuit of Elminster of Shadowdale.
  * * * * *
  Elminster rubbed his chin. "It's been many a winter," he said slowly, "and they've made some changes . . . but what I'm looking for should be abouthere."
  His slowing stride brought him to a halt between two closed doors. He retraced his steps to the first door and paced carefully along the passage from it. At a certain spot he took off one boot, leaving it as a marker, and padded unevenly on to the second door.
  Pacing back carefully from that door, the Old Mage found himself at his boot again, nodded, and put it back on. He looked up at Sharantyr almost challengingly.
  She merely shook her head. Elminster knelt down, touched with a questing finger the stone he'd marked, and nodded again emphatically.
  Sharantyr cast a quick look behind her, sword in hand. The passage was dark and empty. Then she bent forward to watch as Elminster dug the fingers of his undamaged hand into a dark crack that looked no different from a hundred others in the flagstone floor, and heaved.
  The stone shifted a little. Dust puffed up and swirled as it sank comfortably back into its place again.
  Elminster grunted, dug his fingers in again, shifting for a better grip, and heaved. His shoulders shook.
  Sharantyr leaned closer. "Want any help?"
  The slab rose very slowly as Elminster looked at her sourly. Sharantyr shrugged.
  Unseen above them, the floating eye drifted nearer.
  The slab grated sideways. Sharantyr stared into the darkness of the hole that the Old Mage had uncovered. Air was moving upward. Foul air.
  Sharantyr sniffed and wrinkled her nose. "A cesspool. You've found the castle's cesspool."
  Elminster sat unconcernedly on the edge of the hole. A lip ran all around its edge to hold the slab he'd dragged aside. He sat on the edge and felt around in the darkness with his feet for the footholds he knew would be there.
  "Lass, we've no defense against magic anymore," he said, holding up his blackened hand. "With the people roused, and the Harpers and Cormyrean agents I recognized among them, the Zhentarim cannot hope to hold this dale any longer and dare not try to openly seize control of it, not with so many Zhentish coins owed to Sembian merchants right now."
  One foot found what he was seeking. The Old Mage nodded again and went on. "Our work here is done. I'd as soon be gone before some Zhent mageling or other finds us and decides to enhance his reputation by blasting Elminster of Shadowdale into little wisps of smoke."
  Sharantyr raised her eyebrows. "Another gate?"
  Elminster nodded. "Very old, spell-shieldedand just beside the cesspool, where no Zhent or other high-and-mighty mage would ever get dirty enough to look for it. If we find it now, Mulmar can feast as much as he likes, and we'll be long vanished in the night before anyone comes looking for us."
  He climbed down into the hole until only his head and shoulders could be seen and beckoned her. "Ye're young, Shar," he said gently. "I know how it tugs at thy desires to leave this place before we've seen an end to it all. But learn a little wisdom and come now."
  He waited until she moved forward, and added, "Oh, aye. Bring the stone, lass, and pull it down above thee. Ye'll find lines scratched on its underside to mark how it fits."
  Sharantyr rolled her eyes in the gloom as she went to pick up the slab. With a sudden grunt of effort, she lifted it, staggered to the edge of the hole, and carefully set it down. A strong whiff of air from below made her cough.
  "You certainly know how to find troubles to land me in," the lady Knight complained as she started to follow him down the hole.
  "Ah, that's adventure, lass. Adventure," Elminster said cheerfully from somewhere in the darkness beneath her. "Some folk would envy ye."
  Sharantyr rolled her eyes again. They were beginning to water. This gate had better be close by.
  * * * * *
  As the stone settled slowly back into place, the floating eye dipped to inspect it carefully. After a moment it soared into the darkness near the ceiling of the passage and sped away like an arrow fired from a strong forester's bow.
  * * * * *
  "Lord Most High," Councillor Xanther Srildar said, in the safe confines of a tiny secret room deep under the oldest tower of the High Castle, "Brothers Angruin Myrvult and Heladar Longspear have both perished this day, and Harpers and agents of Cormyr lead the people of the dale in armed rising. This dale is lost to us. Over my head, they're taking the castle as I speak. Almost all of our sword brothers and mages are dead." Xanther's words shook only a little.
  When it issued out of the floating, darkly glowing black spindle in front of him, Manshoon's voice was silken in its easy softness. "Indeed. Have you an explanation for how this came about?"
  Xanther swallowed. His throat was suddenly dry again. The lord's tone was a sudden and cold reminder that his position as Manshoon's spy on the other Zhentarim here, a Brother above and secret from them, would not preserve his life if the lord was sufficiently displeased.
  "Yes, Lord," Xanther said boldly. "Elminster of Shadowdale led the forces that attacked the dale, accompanied by at least one of the Knights of Myth Drannor. I saw Elminster myself and overheard him talking to this Knight, a woman in leathers. He called her 'Shar.' They're presently going down a shaft that leads to the castle cesspool, where there's a hidden gate Elminster hopes to escape by."
  "Escape?" came that smooth voice out of the speaking stone, quick with interest, and Xanther began to breathe more easily. It might be that his news would please the Dread Lord of the Zhentarim enough to save his own life after all.
  "Yes, Lord," Xanther confirmed. "I heard him tell the Knight that they had no defense against magic anymore. His hand was burned where Stormcloak's magic missiles destroyed a ring of spell-turning he was wearingI didn't know such rings could be affected that way, but I saw it fly apart. He said it as if the ring had been his only defense against magic. Then he said their work was done and he'd prefer to be gone before some 'Zhent mageling or other finds us and decides to enhance his reputation by blasting Elminster of Shadowdale into little wisps of smoke.' Those were the words he used."
  The speaking stone floated before him, silent for the space of two long breaths. Then the silken voice came again. Its words made Xanther glad that the stone's magic carried only voices, and that he could neither see nor be seen by the leader of the Zhentarim.
  "Tell me, Xanther Srildar," Manshoon's voice asked him, "whyhearing that as you didyou did not attack them both at once?"
  "Iwas far away, Lord," Xanther said, swallowing, "using the wand you gave me. By one of its eyes I followed them across half the castle full of men fighting."
  The spindle floating at the height of his head hung silently.
  Emboldened, Xanther added, "Had I been there, Lord, I doubt Elminster would have spoken so plainly."
  "You've done well, Xanther," the smooth voice came again. "The Brotherhood is pleased with you, despite the disaster in the High Dale. Hear now my orders. Do whatever you can, and enlist whomever you feel necessary, to destroy Elminster of Shadowdale. Bring evidence of his death to me if you canbut whatever befalls and by any means, you must bring about his death. Your reward will be very great."
  * * * * *
  The silently listening figure that neither Manshoon nor Xanther knew was there decided it was time to withdraw before being discovered, with a chance to earn a reward instead of the cold, deadly weight of Manshoon's disfavor.
  Hcarla Bellwind drew his robe more tightly about himself and hastened to a dark and winding stair he knew of. It descended directly to the part of the cellars where a certain noisome cavern held the cesspool.
  * * * * *
  Bellwind was in too much of a hurry to close the secret door to Xanther's little room, once a private treasury vault, no doubt, and discovered by the Brotherhood long ago. The councillor, hurrying along soon after, felt cold fingers of fear touch his spine as he stared at the open door. Who had found his secret place and listened?
  Who knew Manshoon's orders and the truth about Elminster of Shadowdale; who was lurking somewhere near in the castle right now?
  Xanther tried to look about in all directions and discovered, as others have before him, that it's not easy... and that finding no immediate danger brings no comfort.
  * * * * *
  The hurrying Hcarla had no time for fear as his hastening feet descended stairs cold, dark, and worn smooth with age. Others might sneer, as Stormcloak had, at the Old Mage's feeble powers and strange behavior, but Elminster had caused Manshoon himself to flee a fight at least twice. No, Hcarla Bellwind would not begrudge the power he could gain from Elminster.
  Not begrudge, but not fear either. If he could take the Old Mage unawares, he could cast his most precious magic: a stealspell. It would draw the most powerful spell out of the Old Mage's mind into his own, for Hcarla to wield. If that mind was empty of magic, the Old Mage's magic was truly gone and he could never hope to stand against the other spells Hcarla carried.
  On the way through the cellars, a thought struck Hcarla. He paused in a room where glowing mold had been left to grow undisturbed to cast its eerie light over a workbench. He took down a hatchet from where it hung over the bench and caught up a moldering old sack from a pile nearby.
  With the Old Mage's head in a sack, Hcarla could steal away to ask questions of it at leisure, using his own adaptation of the spell that Brotherhood priests used to speak with the dead. With Elminster's loredirections to his spellbooks and hidden magical items would be enoughHcarla Bellwind could forget about Manshoon's favor or disfavor and think instead about replacing him to command the Brotherhood himself. Aye, now there was a thought.
  As he hurried on through the familiar darkness, Hcarla wondered briefly why Elminster had never tried to take control of the Brotherhood himself
  * * * * *
  "Enough!" Itharr gasped. "I'm worn out... or at least my sword arm is. There can't be more than a hand's worth of Wolves left alive in all this castle."
  Belkram came to a reluctant halt, nodding. "You must be right," he said. "Even the Zhentarim can't make men out of nothing, and nothing is all we've found for sixseven?rooms now."
  Itharr nodded. "That reminds me," he panted. "One of the men . . . yelled after us. After Elminster . .. left the hall, someone ... created... magical darkness, and some councillors ... got away."
  Belkram groaned. "Well, you've just proclaimed the task left to us: rounding up a lot of scheming councillors in their various hidey-holes all over this dale."
  Itharr waved a hand. "Time for that on the morrow," he said. "I'm more worried about archmages of Shadowdale wandering about the place."
  Belkram rolled his eyes as he opened his mouth to reply, but another, familiar voice rang out instead.
  "Hail, Harpers!"
  They turned. The clangor of arms had faded away in the bloodstained passages of the High Castle, and a man they knew was coming slowly toward them.
  Gedaern was stumbling on a leg that was no longer sound. Blood soaked his clothes and ran down his face from a cut where hair was tangled and caught fast in gore. The blade in his hand was broken, its tip shattered by the same fierce blows that had marked its length with deep notches. His breath was a wet, whistling sighing that spoke of blood spilling inside him.
  But Gedaern of the High Dale came on, eyes bright and fierce, and through the blood he was smiling. A proud, dangerous smile. A smile that Belkram would never forget, to the end of his days.
  "Fair fighting, Harpers," Gedaern said. "I thank you for this chance to hit back, at last." And he smiled that terrible smile again.
  * * * * *
  "Gods, Old Mage," Sharantyr choked as they felt around in the thick, foul air. "You sure know some romantic places to take a lady!"
  Elminster made a harrumphing, throat-clearing noise from somewhere in the darkness nearby. "When ye've lived as many years as I have, Shar, ye know all the places!"
  Sharantyr turned toward him. "So why come here instead?" A whiff of putrefaction set her to coughing again. "Can't we even go for a torch?"
  "In this bad air, ye'd probably set off a blast that'd bring the stone above down atop us, after separating thy limbs from thy body and spreading ye all over the nearest wall."
  The ranger Knight sniffed. "Without light, Old Mage, the alternative bids fair to be finding the cesspool before finding this gate, by the simple means of falling into it!"
  Keep talking, idiots, Hcarla Bellwind thought with savage glee, coming cautiously nearer in the deep, velvety darkness. Their voices would lead him close enough. Cautiously he probed ahead of him with his foot, testing for firm footing before he committed his weight.
  His foot came down on something yielding, something that squeaked and moved hastily out from under his toes. He felt the harmless pressure of teeth on his boot before whatever it was scurried away.
  "Old Mage!" Sharantyr hissed, ahead. "Did you hear?"
  "Aye," Elminster replied. "Someone stepped on a rat."
  Silence fell, deep and waiting. Hcarla snarled a silent curse. Then he shrugged. No need to come within reach of the woman's sword while he had the stealspell.
  Setting down the axe and sack with slow, stealthy care, he moved his hands in the gestures he'd learned from an old Myth Drannan tome, its ever-bright metal pages still clear in his mind's eye, and softly spoke the words that tied the magic together and hurled it on its way.
  "No!" Elminster gasped roughly, a moment later. "Oh, no."
  Like someone uncorking a wineskin and squeezing it, the power pent up within him started to flow, being drawn off into the darkness. "Lass," he snapped urgently, "close thy eyes!"
  An instant later there was a blinding flash and a shattering roar that left their faces wet.
  Hcarla Bellwind, with all his dreams, had been consumed in a white-hot fireball by the titanic power of Art surging into him.
  * * * * *
  In a chamber dark and warm, where soft limbs caressed his own in the flickering torchlight, Manshoon watched his favorite scrying crystal burst apart in the blue-white flame of Hcarla Bellwind's destruction. As the ladies in the wide bed around him shrieked and scrambled away, he sat up and hissed, "I'll have your head at last, Elminster!" His hand moved to the silken tassel of the bell cord to summon mages. Many mages.
  "Dread Lord?" the best of his companions asked, standing uncertainly beside the bed. "Shall I summon the" her voice faltered and dropped almost to a whisper "beholders?"
  Manshoon turned eyes that were very cold and dark on her. "You share my opinion of our current magelings, then? You expect them all to fail?"
  Anaithe looked back at him with the eyes of a trapped animal, licked her lips, and managed to say, "Yes."
  "Perhaps they'd do better," the High Lord of Zhentil Keep said in silken tones, "if you accompanied them in their search for Elminster. One who's seen so much she's not supposed to must have keen eyes indeed."
  Anaithe trembled, bit her lip, and brought her hands deliberately down to her sides, recovering her poise with an effort. "I shall do whatever my lord desires ... though I cannot see how I, without any magic, can be of any help in destroying an archmage."
  Manshoon smiled suddenly. "As always, your spirit pleases me. You may live."
  Anaithe's skin paled to the hue of old bone, all over. "My thanks, Great Lord," she said softly, and bowed. Manshoon heard the thread of sarcasm she couldn't quite keep from her voice, and his smile broadened. Perhaps he should teach this one magicafter she'd been humbled by a whipping.
  * * * * *
  Sharantyr spoke first, while their ears were still ringing. "What's this all over me?" she asked grimly.
  "Droplets of ambitious Zhentarim mage, no doubt," Elminster replied wryly. "Are ye all right?"
  "Ithink so. I can't tell, in the dark." The lady ranger sounded angry. "Look ... that was a blast, Old Mage, and the air around us didn't flame up to join it. So let us have light."
  Elminster nodded, and an instant later remembered to speak. "Aye, lass, but one problem occurs to me."
  "And it is?"
  "In this darkness, we'll be hard put to it to find a torch."
  Sharantyr said something very rude and unladylike that made Elminster sigh and shake his head. And then, down the passage from which the attack had come, they saw the bobbing light of many torches.
  "Say nothing of the gate," Elminster muttered hastily. "We'll seek it later."
  The sputtering torches were coming fast. A few breaths later, the two men in leathers who'd slain Longspear in the marketplace burst into the room, blades drawn and trailing a handful of armed, bloody men. "Elminster?" one of them asked, holding his torch high.
  "Aye, ye've found him." Elminster moved to stand beside Sharantyr's drawn, ready blade. "Who be ye?"
  "Itharr," said Itharr simply.
  "Belkram," Belkram added. "Storm sent us."
  "So I need nursemaids now, do I?" Elminster grunted, and waved a hand. "Well met, and thanks for thy blade work outside the walls. Ye have my favor. Go and see if Mulmar needs ye for something."
  Itharr and Belkram looked at each other, shrugged, and grinned. They were four strides back up the passage they'd come from when they heard Elminster chuckle.
  They halted and turned. "We were asked to bring you with us," Itharr said rather hesitantly.
  "By whom?" Elminster asked with an air of offended dignity.
  "Irreph Mulmar, high constable of the High Dale."
  "Oh." Elminster smoothed his beard with long fingers. "Well... let's go, then."
  They went, climbing a long and winding way through empty passages, hearing excited voices echoing from here and there as they ascended through the castle, until they reached the great hall.
  Irreph Mulmar sat on the high seat there, in fine clothes and with the chains struck off his limbs. Men and women of the dale stood around him with weapons in their hands. Elminster stepped through the door and nodded casually to him, and sudden silence fell across the chamber.
  "Ah, Old Mage?" the high constable asked awkwardly. "We're grateful for your help an' all, but we've had a bellyful of wizards ruling things."
  Folk of the dale stood watchfully by, weapons ready.
  Elminster blinked at him. "By the good gods, man, what would I want to rule anyplace for?"
  There was another moment of silence, until Gedaern started to laugh. His guffaws set others off. In a moment the hall rang with laughter, the first light and general merriment that had been heard there for many a day.
  * * * * *
  Another platter of steaming fowl banged down on the table between them, and Itharr plucked a drumstick from it without looking, his eyes on Belkram and Sharantyr.
  The two leaned toward each other over the table, chins almost in their wine goblets, as they strained to hear each other over the general din in the hall. All around them, dalefolk who should have been too exhausted to do more than snore were laughing, dancing, devouring with the speed of starving wolves everything that was brought in from the kitchens . . . and drinking as if they sat in parched desert sands instead of a mountain pass.
  "Baldur's Gate?" Shar said in pleased surprise. "Really? I was born there, too!" She grinned across the table at the tall Harper, then turned to Itharr. "So where do you hail from?"
  Itharr rolled his eyes. "All the same places as him. We've walked together for some years now, in the service of the Harp. But as to my upbringing, well... I have the misfortunein the eyes of Baldurians, at leastto have been born in Athkatla."
  "We forgive you," Belkram and Sharantyr said in perfect, unplanned unison. They exchanged startled looks and started to laugh. When they had breath to talk again, Sharantyr refilled Itharr's goblet from her third wineskin of the evening and took a drumstick of her own. "So how do two men from such prosperous cities end up Harping across the backlands?"
  Belkram shrugged. "My parents were crew on the Dancing Dolphin, a nao that sailed out of the Gate. They were slain by pirates during my twelfth summer. For a youngling, alone, the Gate's too pricey a place to fend for oneself, so I took to the roads."
  "And I," Itharr said dryly, "grew up to hate cheating folk"
  "Commerce, my boy. 'Tis called commerce," Belkram put in, setting down a goblet that seemed to have rapidly emptied itself.
  Itharr gave him a look. "Aye, commerce... what folk in Amn do. So I ran away, out of Amn, seeking something to do that was a mite more nobleand adventuresome too, if possible."
  "We met at an inn ... in Daggerford, wasn't it?" Belkram peered suspiciously at the barren depths of his goblet.
  Itharr shrugged. "Wherever. Some house that had guests who worshiped the dead dragons."
  Sharantyr raised an eyebrow. "The Cult of the Dragon?"
  "Aye, and a witty old man with white hair and a wisp of a goatee slew them all, right there in the taproom, when they drew blades on him for being a Harper."
  "And then," Belkram put in, "he sat down amid all the bodies and calmly played and sang for us. Osryk, his name was."
  "A Master Harper who's been missing for a while now," Itharr said rather sadly,
  Belkram nodded. "Aye, Osryk. Impressive, he was. We were both aflame with the idea of becoming Harpers, so he sent us to Berdusk."
  "Where Obslin Minstrelwish didn't much like the look of us," Itharr added with a sigh of remembrance, waving a half-eaten drumstick, "and decided we needed some harsh adventuring experience before we'd be worthy of the Way of the Harp."
  "It's the noise you made with his songhorn," Belkram explained patiently. "You shouldn't have claimed to be an expert horn player."
  "How was I to know it was his favorite instrument?" Itharr protested, sliding his goblet over to Sharantyr for a refill. "After all, how many halfling horn players d'you know?"
  "One is all you need," Belkram told him dryly. "And sometimes far more than you need."
  Sharantyr watched Itharr answer him with a rude gesture, and looked briefly up at the rafters. "You two must be a riotous pair to travel with," she said, shaking her head.
  "Is that an invitation?" Belkram asked eagerly, leaning even farther across the table. Shar rolled her eyes and decided she needed a refill of her own.
  "I don't think so," she said firmly, only to start back as Itharr leaned across the table just as aggressively and asked, "So how does a beautiful lady come to swing such a deadly blade, and join the Knights of Myth Drannor, hey?"
  "Ahhh," Shar began, taken aback.
  Belkram grinned at her. "Aye, it's our turn," he told her happily, steering a goblet she'd never seen before into her hands. It was as large as a man's head, and it was brim full. Belkram winked at her over its lip.
  After the moment it took her to sigh, she winked back.
  * * * * *
  The feast was long and loud, and went on through the night. Folk roared and cheered and sang old songs, and Sharantyr movedaccompanied by the two Harpersto sit with Elminster. She was soon amazed by the rapidity with which his glass became empty, was refilled, and seemed to leak its contents yet again.
  Sharantyr made the huge goblet Belkram had given her last the rest of the evening, and kept eyeing the merriment around her watchfully. If someone yet lived, particularly an archer or a wizard, who wanted the Old Mage dead, this joyful chaos would allow a very good chance to kill him
  About the time she loosened her blade in its sheath and pulled away from where she was pressed against Elminster to get steel out should she need it, she felt the pressing regard of a hostile gaze.
  Looking up quickly, she saw the burning eyes of a councillor across the table dropping swiftly away from her. Hawklike, Sharantyr watched him, her blade a finger out of its sheath.
  A long time later, amid the laughter and song and weary dancing, the man's eyes flicked up again, almost involuntarily. Xanther. Aye, that was his name. One of those who'd been spared, thus far. His eyes flicked away again to stare at something, roved about the table, and returned to stare at the same something again.
  She followed his hungry gaze as he leaned just a finger or so forward to better study whatever it was he was so intent on.
  He was eyeing the wand lying on the table by Elminster's hand.
  Another wizard? Sharantyr drew a deep breath and pondered what best to do.
  Feeling the sudden weight of the lady ranger's gaze upon him, Xanther carefully didn't look up.
  He could not fail to notice, however, the sudden gleam of naked steel as the lady ranger drew her long sword and meaningfully laid it ready on the table, its shining tip resting over the wand.

21
Death Waits Past the Lich-Gate

  Black flames leapt up, casting angry red and amber shadows on the wall behind, but the man in black paid them no heed.
  He'd seen them time upon time before, and had in fact chosen this spot for maximum effect. Blood-red dancing shadows outlined him as a tall and sinister figure of darknessmighty, awesome, and dark. It pleased him to think of himself thus.
  What use, after all, is great power if one cannot use it to indulge one's smallest conceits?
  Wherefore ManshoonLord of the Zhentarim, Over-mage of the Dark Ring, The Hand of Darkness, and the holder of many other titles he was pleased to give himself from time to timestood tall in his high-horned cloak, thigh-high boots, and silken tunic and breeches. He looked down on a keen-eyed mageling of the Brotherhood, a young, hawk-eyed youth whose eager ambition burned so hot that one could almost smell it, and smiled.
  "Avaerl of Sembresh," he asked softly and formally, "would you serve the Brotherhood in ways greater than you have so far?"
  "Yes, Lord Most High," the wizard said quickly and proudly.
  "Be not so swift to promise," Manshoon almost purred. "Others have tried and failed at the task I would set for you."
  "I shall not fail," Avaerl said boldly.
  Manshoon inclined his head and smiled. "Good," he said. "Go then, and bring me the head of Elminster of Shadowdale."
  Avaerl's eager grin slipped, just for an instant, hung lopsided on his face in a perfect match of the ghastly smile worn by many a corpse, and then returned in full. It did not waver as he bowed his head and looked back up at Manshoon. "Lord," he promised, "it shall be done. I will not fail."
  Manshoon bowed his head in dismissal. "Your reward, then, will be very great. Go in power."
  Avaerl turned on his heel, robes swirling, and strode away down the path between two waiting lines of motionless armored forms. They turned in unison to face him as he passed, impassive visors down, but made no sound or other movement.
  Avaerl carefully did not look at any of them. Their silent vigilance unsettled braver magelings than he. It was whispered among the lesser wizards of the Brotherhood that the suits of armor were empty, or appeared to be. Fell spirits, or worse magic, moved them to Manshoon's will. Helmed Horrors they were called.
  When Avaerl stepped onto the spell-guarded stair that led away from Manshoon's cave-lair, the last two Horrors stepped forward behind him to ceremoniously cross curved, naked blades, barring passage along the silent gantlet the ambitious mageling had just walked.
  Ascending steps that glowed vivid blue under his feet, Avaerl heard that whisper of metal kissing metal, and shivered involuntarily. The very sight of the uncanny Horrors chilled him, probably because the cold, deadly watchfulness of Manshoon himself moved them. It was a reminderdeliberate, without a doubtof the awesome power of the Lord Most High of the Zhentarim.
  Not for the first time, Avaerl thought himself crazy to even contemplate challenging Manshoon, some day, for lordship over the Brotherhood. Yet. . . with the power of Elminster, the Old Mage of Shadowdale, under his belt, bards would tell a different tale. He grinned as he saw himself blasting Manshoon to screaming bones, the Overmage's mind pleading for mercy as it faded away, the bones softening, sagging, and collapsing into wind-whirled dust before Avaerl's might.
  Gulkuth, he reminded himself. Gulkuth. His key to making this mere dream into reality. It was a mage's truename, the key to mastery over the man, whoever it was. By where he'd found it, written in blood on a hidden altar, it belonged to a wizard alive today. A wizard who served Bane. A wizard of great power.
  One of the Inner Ring of the Brotherhood, without doubt. But who? Or was it a trap laid by one or all of them against ambitious mages?
  Avaerl dared not reveal that name until he had power enough to use it. That meant magic enough to overmatch Manshoon, for the name could very well be his.
  If it was Manshoon's truename, and Avaerl held the knowledge and power of Elminster, the Lord Most High could not stand against him. The Zhentarim would know a new lord.
  And then a small, cold voice deep inside him added, "For a little while." Avaerl shivered again as he reached the top of the stair.
  * * * * *
  As the blades came softly together at the far end of the gantlet, Manshoon beckoned with a long and lazy arm. One of the dark-robed and cruel-faced men who'd stood silent and motionless among the dark, fanglike stalagmites stepped smoothly forward.
  "Zalarth, I have work for you."
  "I await your orders, my lord."
  Cold eyes met. Each stared into cold, falling depths in the soul of the other, and Manshoon said slowly, "Follow that puppy and do what he will undoubtedly fail to do."
  "Me, my lord?" Zalarth asked, inclining his head at other, mightier mages who stood watching from the shadows.
  Manshoon held his eyes. "I trust you the more," he said coldly, "and believe your thinking in battle to be clearer. You shall succeed where he fails, and bring me Elminster's head ... if you would rise in our councils."
  "May I use items, or the aid of others?"
  "Use what you deem necessary."
  * * * * *
  As Zalarth climbed the glowing stairs in his turn, faces swam in his memoryfaces of thieves and trained killers of the Brotherhood. From those faces, the Zhentarim wizard chose the members of the band he would lead. Elminster would die. Manshoon had commanded the death; it was as good as done. The sentence would befall.
  After too many hundreds of years, Elminster of Shadowdale would perish. Zalarth would seize his might and his magic. Zalarth would use them to rule. When bards, tavern drunks, and wizards whispered of high and mighty deeds in years to come, it would be Zalarth's name they would remember as the one who brought down Elminster of Shadowdale, not Manshoon's. Zalarth would see to that.
  * * * * *
  It was late. Smoke hung thick in the air; wine had been spilled here, there, and everywhere else; and arms that had swung swords, axes, and clubs all day were stiffening to painful, iron-hard immobility.
  All around the great hall of the High Castle, happy but utterly exhausted folk slumped in chairs or simply sprawled on the floor and gave themselves up to snoring slumber. Sharantyr stifled a yawn and glanced at the Old Mage.
  Elminster winked at her and raised a drinking jack of shadowdark ale whose owner was too fast asleep to miss it. It was full.
  "Had enough, Old Mage?" she asked, challenging him.
  "There's no such thing as enough, lass," Elminster told her severely. "After ye've seen a few hundred winters, ye'll know that. There's no such thing as too much, either. Only too little time to enjoy it in." He winked again and added with apparent innocence, "That's true for drinks, too."
  Sharantyr sighed. " 'Lass' again, is it?" she protested, then added in quieter tones, "Do you still plan to leave by the gate tonight?"
  Elminster nodded. "I'd located the gate just about the time every daleman still able to stagger along with a blade hastened up to watch. They're still watching us nowno, lass, don't look around at them; they'll get excited. We'd best to bed, or we'll never be free of all these interested eyes."
  "Bed?" Sharantyr crooked a forbidding eyebrow at him.
  Elminster rolled his eyes. "Let them show you somewhere to sleep. I'll go out for a pipe, and ..."
  Sharantyr nodded, yawned theatrically, and got unsteadily to her feet.
  Down the table, an old dalesman's face dipped forward gently onto the table. Over the now-bowed head, Gedaern, whose face had been wearing a fierce smile all evening, saw her.
  He rose a little unsteadily. "All well, Lady Knight?"
  "Aye, goodman Gedaern," Sharantyr told him truthfully, "but I am most weary after all that blade work. If there's any place in this castle I can sleep ... ?"
  "But of course!" Irreph Mulmar said heartily from behind Gedaern. He extended a massive hand to her. "I've never seen such fighting as yours, today. We and the dale owe you much. The best bedchamber in the High Castle would be honored by your presence. Let me take you to it, if?" He turned his head.
  "It is ready, Sir," Ireavyn assured him quickly, beaming. At her shoulder, Ulraea nodded happily. Shar could ask for the moon, this night, and they'd climb atop each other on the battlements to reach it down for her.
  "No, no," Sharantyr said, "please. Nothing grand. Just somewhere quiet and out of the way, with a good bed." She glanced back at Elminster, who had arisen and was unconcernedly filling his pipe. "Ahwith room enough for two, or with two beds."
  Elminster turned one twinkling eye to meet hers as he tamped and fumbled, but said nothing.
  "I know such a room," Ulraea said. "Up high, in Guards' Tower. A guest chamber. I can take you there."
  "Please," Sharantyr said. "Irreph . . . my thanks. Stay. You belong here, in this hall, with your people around you. Stay, please. Enjoy the castle being yours again. I don't want to take you away from this."
  At Irreph's shoulder, his daughter Ylyndaera smiled and nodded at the lady ranger from within her father's encircling arm.
  Irreph looked down at his daughter and then at Sharantyr, and said roughly, "My thanks, Lady Sharantyr. You see as keenly as your blade cuts. Until the morrow, then."
  "Until next," Sharantyr answered with a smile. Behind her, Elminster bowed silently.
  "Goodnight, Lady Sharantyr," Ylyndaera said, eyes shining, and Gedaern echoed her words.
  Farther down the table, Itharr and Belkram had their arms around two dark-eyed dale maids. They waved, and Belkram called, "Keep an eye on him, Lady, will you?"
  "This night more than ever," Itharr added.
  "Oh, I will," Sharantyr replied in a voice that brought guffaws from all around, and she went out, Ulraea at her side.
  Elminster came back from the fire puffing his pipe to life, gave the two Harpers a severe look, and followed.
  Gedaern looked after him and said thoughtfully, "Now there goes a man that kings and wizards and dragons an' all have found hard to kill, for more years than I and my old one and grandsire together have seen."
  Irreph watched the Old Mage walk out of sight and replied, "They don't stop trying, though."
  * * * * *
  It was a clear night. Above the dark, reaching shoulders of the peaks, stars glittered like tireless torches.
  Elminster looked up at them as he had done on countless nights, from battlements on as many worlds as he had fingers, down too many years to remember, and puffed at his pipe. He'd told the earnest young dalemen on guard that he'd just have a pipe before he retired, and to go and get drunk while there was something left. They'd laughed kindly but sensed he wanted silence and solitude, thank Mystra, and had left him.
  As the feast went on below, he'd heard them drift away, one by one, from watching a closed door. He only hoped Sharantyr wouldn't really fall asleep. After all she'd done today, waking her would be as cruel as it would be difficult.
  Elminster blew silvery-green winking sparks around himself in a friendly, dancing cloud and sighed. He'd seen so many beautiful, capable, bright women die, down the long years. He hoped Sharantyr would not perish soon, and that he'd not be the cause of her death when it came.
  He turned back to the doorway that let him watch over the guest chamber's closed door. He was regarding it fondlygods, but this lass, one of the quieter and younger Knights, apt to be overlooked in all the bustle of their deeds back in Shadowdale, was a sparkling blade, to be sure!when it opened softly and a cautious face peered out.
  A long puff later, Sharantyr stole barefoot out of the dark room, carrying a bundle in front of her from which her scabbarded sword protruded. Starlight shone briefly on shapely bare legs, and the lady ranger brushed damp hair back over her shoulders, then frowned as she deftly caught a boot on its way toward the flagstones underfoot.
  "Disrobed again, are we?" Elminster's tone was amused as he took the pipe from his mouth. "I thought so. Young lasses have such predictable notions of adventure."
  "Hush, Old Mage," Sharantyr hissed severely, holding her breeches aloft with one hand while the other struggled with a large number of extremely heavy, awkward, and active items that seemed to be continually trying to slip out of her grasp. "You may not mind if you stink like a pig in a wallow, but being sticky and filthy bothers me. I availed myself of Ulraea's kindness and had a very nice hot bath, if the word 'bath' means anything to a certain old, hard-headed, and rather strong-smelling wizard. I think the High Dale owes me that much, at least. Herehold my sword, will you?"
  Elminster bowed, took the scabbarded blade in skillful silence, reached in to help hold her shirt up at the throat while she struggled with the lacings, turned his back with courteous haste, and then turned around again to hold Sharantyr's gloves while she did up her belt.
  Then he reached up and took hold of the pipe that had been patiently floating in the air waiting for him all this time, and puffed on it again.
  Sharantyr stared at it, and at him, and sighed and smiled. In answer to his curious look she said, "Never mind, El. The pipeit's a close personal friend and a thousand years older than I am, right?"
  Elminster took the pipe out of his mouth and winked at it.
  The pipe opened a rather world-weary eye and winked solemnly back at him before swiveling to do the same to Sharantyr.
  Elminster was chuckling as he tapped the pipewhich instantly went out, leaving no smoke or odor behindand put it in a hidden pocket inside his robes. The lady ranger never was sure if the pipe was alive or if she'd just been the victim of one of his pranksome little illusions.
  * * * * *
  Xanther sneered silently at the two dale youths who stood guard. They were barely old enough to hold their spears properly and did not see him where he stood in the dimness of the passage. The Zhentarim slipped behind the concealment of a shadow cast by a bulge in the rough stone wall, and did something.
  The two young guards heard the slight noise that the secret door made as it swung open and then instantly shut again, but by the time they reached the shadow, there was nothing to be seen but an empty stone passage. They hunted around for a bitthere had been a noise, both agreedand looked warily upward. When they thankfully saw nothing waiting to fall on them, they shrugged and went away.
  By then, Xanther had slain Stormcloak's old, stupid watchspider with the heavy stone block he'd thoughtfully procured earlier, and taken the scrolls he knew it guarded. Their capped tubes rattled, and he shook a large gem out of one with great satisfaction. The other yielded a fine chain linking three plain brass finger rings, and a dagger whose quillons were a pair of batlike, furry folded wings, dusty gray and looking very much alive. He was careful not to touch it bare-handed and so activate it.
  Xanther packed all this revealed magical treasure back into the tubes that had held it. Then he hurried on, descending through dark, secret passages scarcely wider than his own hips, heading for the cellars. Heading toward the dark, waiting cesspool where he knew Elminster of Shadowdale and the wench Sharantyr would come ... to meet their deaths.
  For the greater glory of the Brotherhood. Xanther smiled a smile that held no humor and slipped on through the darkness.
  * * * * *
  "The gate lies just here," Elminster said, pointing in the fetid darkness.
  "Without light, I can't see a thing," Sharantyr said crossly, "but from the smell, I can tell that we're very near the edge of the pool. Watch where you step."
  Elminster felt for her hand, seized it in his own, and squeezed reassuringly. "That's the beauty of it, d'ye see? Kneel down here, beside me, and feel."
  His hand led hers to trace cold stone. The stink around them was indescribable. Elminster continued an unconcerned lecture. "One enters the gate by stepping out over the pool, off the edge as if one were stepping right into it. One has to start here, though, just between these two raised stones, or the step forward is into empty air and ends as a fast plunge into the muck."
  Sharantyr let him guide her hand to two stony knobs. "Do you mean we're kneeling right on the edge of it now?"
  "Aye. An exposed position, indeed," Elminster replied. "Let us up and proceed, without further delay. Hold tight to my hand."
  "Old Mage," Sharantyr said calmly, "I'm doing so. I've got a very good grip on you, in fact, and I'll yank you beard-over-ankles into this cesspool right now if you don't tell me just where this gate you're so eager to use will take us, before we step so boldly through it!"
  Elminster sighed. "Ye want all the Zhentarim in this placeand those who serve Sembia, Cormyr, the Red Wizards of Thay, and the Cult of the Dragon, besidesto find us here, don't ye? I may know a few tricks and carry a few magic trinkets, but if ye'd see my skin stay whole and my thousand-odd years stretch to a few more, ye'd not force me to fight off every eager hedge-wizard and sharpknife in this dale!" He turned and glared at her as he spoke. The lady ranger felt the burning weight of his unseen eyes on her in the darkness.
  "Old Mage," Sharantyr said firmly, "just tell and we can be on our way, provided it's not to a certain plane of fire and evil, or the center of the Grand Hall in Darkhold, or another such lunatic destination. I'd like to know what I'll have to fight before I get wherever we're going."
  Elminster tried to pull away. Her grip shook with weariness but held him like iron as she added, "And since you threatened me with all those names, suppose you also tell me just who, in this mountain dale so crammed with Zhentarim wizards, serves Thay, the Cult, Sembia, and Cormyr."
  The Old Mage sighed. "The councillors, Shar. Among them are men still loyal to the dale, a handful who bow to Manshoonall the newer members, no doubtand those who were there before Longspear's takeover, seeing to the interests of those others in secret. Trust me. When my Art served me, I spied on many a secret meeting and took note of many, many faces. Most of the High Dale's councillors are more than they seem to be."
  "And we're slipping away and leaving Irreph to that?" Sharantyr blazed at him. "All of them tired and hurtYlyndaera, Ulraea, Gedaern, and all the rest? Is your heart a stone, Old Mage? A gravestone for them all, perhaps?"
  "Easy, lass, easy," Elminster rumbled. "Didn't we rid them of enough Zhent mages to rule a small dale, between us? While ye were so busy glaring at Xantherthe weak-willed one who wanted my wand; unless my nose has lost all smell, he's a Zhent sneakat the table this even, I gave both Gedaern and Irreph identical lists of what cause each councillor serves, at least so far as I knew. Gedaern read it then and there, I know. I saw him go out, and later he came back and told me a name."
  Sharantyr frowned. "I remember that. 'Blakkal' or something, he said to you, just when the Zhent councillor got up to leave. I didn't know what he meant."
  "Aye," Elminster said to her in the darkness. "The leather worker. He served the Cult of the Dragon until Gedaern saw to him." He sighed again. "I doubt Gedaern will let Xanther live to see another sunrise, even if Mulmar leaves reading my note until then."
  "Why wouldn't he read it?"
  Elminster gave her a look that she could not see, but felt. "Everyone of the dale wanting to talk to him, his daughter clinging to him and in tears every second breath, and the first proper meal he's had for a long timewith too much to drink, I don't doubt. It would also come as no surprise to me to learn he's abed with Ireavyn right now."
  It was Sharantyr's time to sigh. "True enough. I don't suppose the Zhent councillors will amount to much. With all the wizards Manshoon already had strutting around the dale to back up their usurper, he wouldn't have needed great warriors or mages, only good spies. And I can't think agents of Cormyr and Sembia are much to be feared, given that each country will counter any moves to gain control that the other makes. But you spoke of Thay. You're going to leave a Red Wizard running loose here?"
  "Hardly that," Elminster told her. "He's a wizard, aye, but rather a decent sort and much too careful to reveal himself. When they come for him, of course, it'll be too late for him to do more than run. He's the local weaver, a fat, kindly little man by the name of Jatham Villore. I feel somewhat in his debt. Someone cloaked the Zhents' searching spells as we and the two Harper lads were gallivanting around the dale, and I rather think it was him."
  "Why?"
  "Will ye never run out of questions, girl? To shake the rule of the Zhentarim here, of course." Elminster cleared his throat. "We looked into each other's eyes, in the great hall just now, and if hundreds of years of measuring folk with my eyes has taught me anything, he's not quick to slay with his Art, that one."
  Sharantyr reached out in the darkness, found his beardit felt like the soft bristles at the base of a horse's tailand patted his cheek. "Well enough," she said. "You've done what you could for the dale. So tell me, where are we going?"
  She heard the grin in Elminster's voice. "By Mystra, lass, but ye're a keen, feisty blade! Well, then, this gate should take us to another castlemuch grander than this one, but in ruinsin the Fallen Lands."
  "Clear across Anauroch? How will we get back?"
  "One disaster at a time, lass. Come." The Old Mage tugged at her hand, and Sharantyr allowed him to pull her to her feet. The stinking darkness swirled around them like soiled velvet, disturbed by their movement. Sharantyr nearly choked.
  "What castle?" she managed to ask, feeling for the hilt of her sword.
  "Spellgard they call it now. Long ago, when it belonged to a friend of mine, it had another name."
  "What happened?" Sharantyr asked, but Elminster towed her forward with surprising strength, and the words that began above the cesspool of the High Castle ended in a cold, shadowed hall lit by glowing mosses.
  Dark archways gaped in the walls around them, and more moss hung from stone balconies above. The floor was an uneven tumble of disturbed marble, its smooth paving broken upward as if a giant had punched it repeatedly from beneath.
  Cold breezes blew around their ankles, coming from somewhere unseen, and there was no sign of life. Dust hung thick in the air, and there were no furnishings to be seen except stone seats carved into the walls in little curl-ornamented niches.
  Elminster was nodding in recognition. "Spellgard?" Sharantyr asked, to hear more about it rather than to confirm where they were.
  "Aye," Elminster said, striding forward. "As to what happened, well. . . it's a very long story and happened a long, long time ago. Let's just say that the realm of Netheril fell, and the friend I spoke ofthe sorceress Saharellived on here. But mages had very few ways of stretching their years, then." He fell silent, looking around at the moss and the tumbled stone.
  "Except being chosen by Mystra," Sharantyr said softly beside him.
  Elminster nodded slowly. "Save for the grace of Mystra," he echoed. He stood looking at nothing for a long, sad moment, then lifted his head and said almost defiantly, "Best we look about. Ye never know... some Zhent wizard might find the gate behind us."
  Sharantyr's sword slid out as she spun around to see only dust and empty air. "Not yet," she said, turning back. "Lead, El. You know this place."
  Elminster strode toward an archway. "Saharelgard it was called, when I knew it. I've been here once since, but I was too busy running then to look around."
  "Too busy running?"
  "Running from, and fighting, a family of mages who'd learned how to turn themselves into dragons."
  "Oh"
  Elminster waited, and her expected question came: "What happened?"
  "I'm with ye today, eh, lass? What else would ye know?"
  * * * * *
  In a room that was deep and dark and spherical, a figure stirred on a round bed. Dark robes rustled, tatters falling away into dust, as the thing on the bed sat up and leaned forward as if sniffing the air.
  It had been awakened by an intrusion, the sudden presence of more magic than it had ever felt in one being before. Awesome magic. What befell in the Realms above now? The figure rose in a sudden, smooth movement and spread its hands.
  A door that had been closed and sealed for centuries suddenly ceased to be, exploding into dust. The figure strode forward in uncanny silence.

22
Magemoot at Spellgard

  One instant saw a high-ceilinged hall empty of all but glowing moss and tumbled stone. In the next breath, a young man in robes stood in its midst, crouching as if facing a foebut his hand held a wand, not a sword. He darted hurriedly four steps to one side and looked all around. No sign of anyone. Where was he?
  Silence hung heavy in Spellgard. Avaerl of Sembresh peered around in the weird, dim light of the glowing mosses and muttered a quick spell.
  Abruptly he disappeared. Invisibility cloaked him as he stepped carefully to another spot and murmured his next spell.
  Unseen, he rose slowly and silently to the uppermost balcony, glancing into archways and along passages as he passed them. In some, cold radiances pulsed and flickered, but Avaerl had seen the mushrooms called glow-caps before and knew them for what they were.
  He'd learned of Elminster's woman companion from his informant in the High Castle, but of those two or the route they had taken, he saw no sign. Avaerl breathed out a soundless sigh, then shrugged and set foot on the stones of the highest balcony. Let the hunt begin.
  * * * * *
  "Itharr," said a voice from the darkness at the foot of the bed, "I hate to do this, really I do, but we've got a problem."
  "The Zhentarim have sent an army? Well, defeat them, and tell me about it in the morning," Itharr said sleepily.
  "Not as simple as that," Belkram said kindly. "Get up, and bring your sword. Elminster's gone."
  "Oh, dung," Itharr said, coming all the way awake, little chilly feet of foreboding racing down his spine. "When?" As he asked the useless question, he gently slipped a warm but very heavy head from his shoulder. Its owner murmured something, slid a caressing hand along his thigh, settled into a new position, and began to snore.
  "Mine did that, too," Belkram said in amused tones, handing Itharr his scabbarded sword. The buckle hit the younger Harper in the face.
  Itharr spat it away and snarled, "Clothes first, you dolt. I don't consider them optional."
  "Here. Hurry."
  Itharr hurried, grumbling all the while in low, muttered whispers. "He's probably just gone to relieve himself, or look at the stars, or find a wench who'll have him."
  Belkram tried to hand him his sword again. This time, Itharr was ready.
  "Remember what Storm told us," Belkram said. "Even if he is just out on the nearest battlement, his safety is too important to risk. Besides, Sharantyr's gone too, and their clothes and weapons."
  "Tymora aid us," Itharr groaned, leaping up. Together they ran to the door. Itharr winced as a lonely and bewildered voice called his name softly and sleepily from the bed behind him, but he did not answer or slow down.
  Belkram clapped him on the shoulder as they hurried down the passage. "Gedaern woke me up, and he did it by running into the room bellowing at the top of his lungs. He smashed straight into the bed and fell on top of us. I thought you'd appreciate a gentler awakening."
  "My thanks," Itharr said dryly. "Has he left it just to us, or have we a band of willing idiots to help us scour the dale in the dark?"
  "We have such a band, and now they have two willing idiots to lead them," Belkram replied brightly.
  Itharr grunted something that his companion didn't quite catch.
  * * * * *
  Zalarth Bloodbrow smiled grimly at the startled shout and the splash. A fitting reward for disobedience, he thought, watching the thief thrashing and spluttering in the cesspool. There were only two others left. The rest of his men had walked exactly as he'd directed, and the gate had taken them elsewhere already. He motioned those two forward as if to aid the one in the pool. The moment they were in front of him, he moved his fingers in the quick movements of a spell.
  The limbs of the thrashing man abruptly froze, and he stared at the wizard in wide-eyed, openmouthed, silent horror as he sank slowly into the thick brown ooze. The soundless mouth slid from view, then the unmoving, staring eyes. The hair coiled momentarily amid bubbles . . . and then there was nothing.
  The two Brotherhood thieves turned to look at Zalarth, their throwing knives leaping into their hands as if they commanded their own magic.
  The cruel-faced Zhentarim shook his head and sighed. "His heart? A seizure, perhaps? Better it happened here, I suppose, than in the midst of whatever we'll find through there." He nodded at the empty air where the gate must be.
  "Mind you step off the edge there, between the two bumps, and not try to jump in from one side as Lesker did." He shook his head again, frowning, thin-lipped. "He didn't have seizures, did he? Or anything of the sort?"
  The two men shook their heads silently. The knives did not leave their hands.
  Zalarth frowned down at the now-placid surface of the cesspool. "Unless," he said slowly, "there's something alive in there, feeding on Lesker now."
  He looked up and said briskly, "We'd best be gone from here before it sends up tentacles or the like."
  He'd scared them sufficiently. Without further demur the thieves stepped forward into the gateand were gone. Zalarth hastily advanced to position himself between the two stone knobs before the torch went with them.
  In the sudden darkness, he conjured up an invisible protective shield of force around himself, just in case one of his men had second thoughts and decided to greet him with a thrown knife.
  Then Zalarth of the Zhentarim stepped forward in the darkness and went to war.
  * * * * *
  "I think I know where he might be, or might have gone, at least," Itharr said suddenly as they stared wildly around at empty battlements.
  "Well?" one of the dalemen demanded. "Speak!"
  "Where we caught up to him earlier," Itharr said, turning to Belkram, "and he called us nursemaids. Remember?"
  Belkram nodded. "You think he's down there? At the cesspool?"
  Itharr shrugged. "He was after something there, amid the stink, and we interrupted him. He'll have gone back to it when he thought everyone was too drunk or to asleep to see him."
  "Treasure?" Belkram asked, raising a puzzled eyebrow.
  "No," Itharr said very quietly. "Another gate, if I'm not mistaken."
  Belkram stared at him and swallowed. Then they were both sprinting through dark, empty passages, seeking stairs that led down and taking turns cursing and panting for breath.
  The men of the dale thundered after them. "The only folk crazier than these Harpers," one grunted, rounding a stair post at breakneck speed in the darkness, "is wizards."
  "Thank the gods for that," said the man behind him. "If they weren't, we'd still be kissing Longspear's feetand another part of that Stormcloak's body, too."
  They'd bounded down another flight of stairs before the first daleman replied dryly, "I'd wondered what you were about, those long evenings."
  He was answered in turn by a ruder suggestion. Then they were nearing the cellars, and Gedaern hissed them to silence.
  * * * * *
  Xanther waited and waited, but there came no further sound. He'd heard the wizardone of Manshoon's killers, if his memory held rightmuttering, and then the faint scrape of a boot on stone. Then, only silence.
  Xanther carefully emptied one scroll tube into his lap and felt about until his fingers closed on the cold hardness of the gem. He knew what it must be, given the three words written on the inside of the scroll tube's cap that he'd read earlier, and closed his eyes as he spoke the first of those words.
  The prism-shaped gem gave forth a cone of pale light. Good; he'd chosen the right word. By its light, he saw that the cesspool and its surroundings were empty of all people.
  Hmm. "Between the two bumps," the wizard had said, and intimated that passage between them was critical to avoid falling into the cesspool. Xanther put away the tube's contents again, except for the handy gem, and got up. Two bumps, on the edge of the cesspool...
  There was a sudden sound behind him. A muffled thudno, a flurry of such sounds. The thudding of booted feet coming quickly down stone steps and along the echoing passage. Dalefolk!
  Xanther hurried toward the stinking pool, eyes searching frantically. Ahthere! Two bumps!
  He eyed the reeking pool and sighed. He'd have preferred time to make sure of the route before stepping out over that.
  The sounds grew louder, and he heard the unmistakable voice of one of the men in leathers who'd fought Stormcloak in the great hall.
  Xanther sighed again, and stepped out from the edge. The light in the cavern abruptly went out.
  * * * * *
  "A light!"
  "Where?"
  "Gone now, sir, but there was light here a moment ago, I tell thee!"
  Throw your torch forward," Belkram ordered. "Those with bows to the fore, but no one advances until I give word."
  He and Itharr looked each other over quickly. "Got a dagger or two, besides your blade?"
  Itharr nodded. "As usual." He grinned as he added, "I think it's your turn to go first."
  "My thanks," Belkram told him in dry tones and darted forward, keeping low. He crouched near the guttering torch, peering around intently, then beckoned them with a wave.
  What could be seen of the dark, foul-smelling cavern was empty. In the center of the cracked, uneven stone floor was the cesspool, its surface still. Itharr waved the men with torches toward the far reaches of the place, to light up every niche and corner.
  He and Belkram exchanged glances and nodded. "A gate, without doubt. We have to enter it in exactly the right way, or we'll never find it."
  "That could take days," Belkram sighed.
  "It could," came a voice from behind them. "But if you'll allow me to show you the way, it can take you but a moment."
  They all turned. In the passage behind them, the fat weaver, Jatham, stood in his night robe, holding a hand lamp and regarding them calmly.
  Gedaern's eyes narrowed. "You"
  "Serve Thay? Aye. I thought Elminster might tell you." The weaver watched the frowning daleman come toward him and added, "I'd like to make a deal with you, Gedaern."
  "Oh, aye? And what sort of deal could you and I come to?"
  "You let me live, to leave the dale peacefully with my possessions on the morrow. In return, I tell you all I know of the other councillors' loyalties and doings, and show these two Harpers the gate they seek."
  "Just let you go, after all you've done? Why"
  "Or you could thank me. Most of what I've done, this last year or so, is work against the spells and schemes of the Zhentarim as much as I could. My efforts have kept many in the dale alive, even some here in this cellar now."
  "How could you save lives and trick wizards? Aye? Tell me that!"
  Jatham spread his hands. In the gesture, his left hand let go of the oil lamp, and it hung motionless in the air in front of him, its flame flickering slightly. "With my own magic, of course," he said mildly. "It's not much, but it's enough to make any thoughts of slaying me or driving me out of the dale very, very foolish indeed."
  Gedaern eyed the weaver suspiciously. He darted a glance to the two Harpers. They looked back at him expressionlessly and spread their hands to signal their indecision.
  Gedaern frowned. "What's to keep you from blasting us all with your magic the moment we go to bed, then?"
  "I am," said another voice from behind the weaver.
  Jatham turned quickly. "You should not have come down, love. This is not safe."
  "It was necessary," Ulraea told him crisply. Her eyes were lined with sleep, and her unbound hair hung in wild tangles about her, but she drew herself up in her tattered nightdress proudly and regarded Gedaern with what seemed almost like a challenge in her eyes. "Jatham is mine, Ged. I know him as no other in this dale, and I tell you he has not worked against us of the dale while Longspear lorded it over us, and will not do so this night. If you must, set a guard in our room tonight."
  Gedaern stared at her, openmouthed. It was several long breaths later that he visibly remembered to swallow. "Ulla?" he said at last, voice cracking. "Y-you . . . love him? You'll go with him?"
  Ulraea nodded, eyes on his. "If you'll let me." She looked around at them all. "If you're so fearful of what my Jath will do with his magic, guard meand take my life if he works ill."
  Jatham reached for her involuntarily. "No!" he cried, in an anguished voice.
  "No," Gedaern's voice overrode his, loud and flat. "It won't be necessary. Go back to your beds, both of you, after you show us this gate and tell us where it leads. If you'll do that, we have a deal."
  He sheathed the notched, scarred sword he bore and walked slowly to where the weaver stood. He raised his hand, palm out, standing nose to nose with the Thayan agent.
  Jatham did the same, and slowly they both brought their hands down to touch each other's chest in the old dale custom. A bargain was made. Both men nodded solemnly.
  Then Jatham said briskly, "The gate can only be entered by stepping out over the cesspool from a certain place, the spot between the two little humps of stone, on this sidesee, here? It will take you across half Faerun to the far edge of Anauroch, the Great Desert. Those who go through reach a central hall in an old, ruined castle, a place they call Spellgard today. It's a one-way journey, and the castle has a fell reputation. I recommend that those who love the High Dale not take the gate. The way between there and here is long, and not safe."
  "That's our road, then," Itharr said quietly.
  Belkram nodded and said, "Our thanks, Jatham . . . and Gedaern, and all of you, for risking your necks again this night. May the High Dale know peace for a good long time now. We must leave you in haste, for we're charged to follow Elminster and keep him safe."
  Jatham raised an eyebrow. "May I ask why?"
  The two Harpers exchanged a look. Belkram shrugged. "The one who set us this duty told us it was the most important task in the Realms. Elminster of Shadowdale must liveor, I fear, even gods will fall."
  In the shocked silence that followed, the two young men saluted their fellows-in-arms with raised blades, nodded a special farewell to Gedaern, and without hesitation marched out over the cesspool.
  In midstep above the mire, with all eyes on them, they vanished. Itharr and Belkram were tired, hurt, and walking into unknown danger. But they strode ahead without pause, for they were Harpers.
  * * * * *
  Spellgard was tall and dark and gloomy. Mushrooms and luminescent mosses grew here and there about its empty stone chambers. There was no sign of life. Even the torn, dusty cobwebs seemed to have been spun long ago by spiders now vanished. Yet there was a curious presence about the place, a silent, waiting feel as if something unseen were watching. They went on in silence.
  Room after room was empty save for little heaps of collapsed wood, gilt, and stone where furniture had fallen before relentless passing years. Here and there, the archmage without magic and the lady Knight found the scars of battle: scorched, blackened areas on the walls and floor, shattered stone panels, and buckled flagstones. This strife had happened long ago. Mold, moss, dust, and rot overlaid all. Elminster shook his head from time to time as they went on through the silent, waiting castle. Silence reigned.
  * * * * *
  The Zhentarim thieves were trained, experienced men. Gloomy ruins did not begin to test their nerves. They spread out, slim black-bladed swords ready in their hands, and moved slowly forward, watching and listening intently, making no more noise than a faint breeze. Behind them, Zalarth tried not to make too much noise as he followed.
  The brightest archway opening out of the high-ceilinged hall led into a smaller chamber. It was thickly grown with gray-green glowing moss, and dark stalks of mushrooms half the height of a man reared up in the corners. The men peered all around the room carefully, paying special attention to the ceiling, before they proceeded through it, avoiding all the growing things, to the archway beyond.
  It led into another chamber, smaller still. A large, smooth-carved, unadorned stone table leaned in the center of this room, one leg crumbling. Beyond the table were two archesand someone standing facing them!
  Or something. It was tall and very thin, clad in dark and dusty robes. Its face was skull-like and white, its eyes dark sockets.
  A lich! Or perhaps just an illusion, a trap laid by Elminsteror even by Avaerl. The men cast glances back at Zalarth. In calm silence he gestured, making the Brotherhood's hand signs for "advance" and "beware." In cautious unison they approached.
  The figure moved. Something tinkled to the stone floor, falling and rolling. An unmistakable sound: coins. Another trap-lure, or just a pocket collapsing in the rotting garment of something that should be in a grave, not on its feet?
  They were close enough now to see the figure wasor had beenfemale. Long gray-white hair framed a withered, dead face. As Zalarth watched, a chill spread icy fingers along his spine. Two points of glittering light, deep in the dark eye sockets, were expanding rapidly.
  As the Zhentarim wizard tensed to lash out with a spell, the skeletal figure spoke. "Well met and welcome, adventurers. Put aside your weapons and speak with me in peace, if you would. I mean no harm. I've waited so very long for someone to find me."
  More looks. Zalarth gave the "weapons out and ready" sign and asked calmly, "Whoor whatare you, and what place is this?"
  "I am Saharel, and this is my home. The years have been no kinder to me than to Netheril itself, but I still abide here. Who are you?" The voice was feminine and dry, as loud as Zalarth's own, and held a trace of pride.
  Once-beautiful long hair, now a mold-covered, wild mane of gray and white, clung to the shriveled, half-skeletal travesty of a face as the figure bent forward.
  In answer, Zalarth began the ugly syllables of a spell to control undead.
  The figure scowled and said sharply, "Now is that friendly? What do you here? Are you come merely to plunder?"
  She waved a skeletal hand, and a thief more frightened than the rest hurled his knife.
  The figure watched the blade whirl through the air at her, and raised a hand with sudden speed to protect her face. The knife tore through the wasted flesh to lodge between two bones in the forearm. The figure raised her arm to study it.
  "So you would bring death to me, where the gods failed? Die, fools, and despoil my home no longer!"
  The figure gestured. Purple and black bolts of magic spat from each bony finger, streaking unerringly across the chamber to smite the thieves.
  His spell done, Zalarth watched aghast as his men shrieked, stiffened, and died. The lichif it was a lichwas ignoring his magic, and he could feel no ties of Art to give him power over it.
  "What are you, that you defy my Art?" he asked, one hand darting to the other.
  The undead lights of her eyes regarded him coldly. "An archlich. Apologize, if you would live."
  "I'm sorry indeed to have met with you," Zalarth said from the depths of his heart, and turned the ring he wore.
  Abruptly he was elsewhere, back in the great hall he'd first entered when coming through the gate. He ran, then, ran as he had not done for years, feet pounding on the stones. Headlong down a dark passage, up a stair, through a weirdly lit, moss-choked gallery, and up another stair.
  It opened onto a landing that led to another ascending stair on one hand and an archway on the otheran archway that opened onto a balcony overlooking another large hall. What ruin was this? It was huge, andHe glanced over the edge of the balcony, stopped, and stood very still.
  In the room below stood Elminster of Shadowdale, the ranger Knight at his side. Her sword was drawn, and he held a wand. Both were facing that young fool Avaerl.
  "Die, old fool," Avaerl taunted the bearded, battered old man, a wand glowing in the young mage's hand. "Die by the order of Manshoon, Lord Most High of the Zhentarim! Die at the hand of Avaerl of Sembresh!"
  Sharantyr drew and hurled a dagger in one smooth, flashing movement and charged after it, leaping over small piles of rubble. "I think he's trying to talk us to death, Old Mage!" she cried, raising her blade.
  Avaerl howled and clutched at his slashed fingers, the wand falling as the dagger spun away into the gloom. Sharantyr raced toward him, hair streaming behind her.
  Lightning flashed and cracked from a balcony above, outlining her in blue-white dancing death. She staggered, groaned loudly, and fell to her knees.
  Zalarth stared across at the balcony whence the bolt had come, then swiftly ducked low and moved far aside from where he had been standing.
  Cold laughter came from the dimness that had spawned the lightning. "Not so threatening now, are you, Sharantyr?"
  The speaker moved to the low, broad stone balcony rail and stared down triumphantly. "And so it is by the hand of Xanther that the famous Elminster shall perish!"
  The old man had moved forward involuntarily as the lady ranger was struck. He stopped now, amid the rubble, and sighed. "If ye knew just how many times I've heard that line down the yearsand mind, mageling, Manshoon himself has said it, twice, and I'm still standing for all his empty boasting!"
  Xanther snarled and aimed his wand. Elminster calmly took out his pipe and sucked on it.
  Lighting flashed, but Elminster was suddenly elsewhere. He appeared out of empty air on the balcony just behind Xanther, pipe glowing in his hand, and calmly tipped the councillor forward over the rail.
  Xanther had time for the raw beginnings of a scream as he plungedjust before he struck the raised edge of a shattered stone table that rose out of the rubble like the edge of a giant's shield.
  It was old and gray and very, very hard. The sharp sounds of Xanther's bones shattering echoed loudly in the hall. His body bounced limply and then hung motionless atop the table. Rivers of dark blood ran swiftly down the stone.
  "Shar! Shar, do ye live?" Elminster called, his voice trembling.
  The lady ranger lay still in the dust, but the Zhentarim she'd not managed to reach snarled a word and pointed an angry hand at Elminster.
  Magic missiles flashed through the air. The Old Mage sighed, cursed, and sat down on the balcony floor to await them. Their strike shook his body, and he grunted in pain.
  Zalarth Bloodbrow smiled savagely and cast a fireball, grandly but carefully, onto that balcony.
  Its flash and roar shook the hall, and Zalarth reached for the teleport ring he wore. The she-lich could hardly fail to hear that. He had to snatch some proof of Elminster's demisewhatever was left, he supposedand hie himself back to Manshoon before she came.
  Under his boots, the stones were still hot. Roiling dust and smoke curled in the air. Zalarth searched all about, coughing and waving smoke away, but look as he might, he could find no sign of Elminster.
  He heard a thud below and struggled to the rail to see Elminster standing over the fallen Avaerl, pipe in one hand and a bloodied chunk of stone in the other. "That's for what ye did to the lass," the old man told the slumped mageling severely before he scurried to the fallen ranger, did something, and was gone again.
  Zalarth frowned and reached for his own ring. Two could play this game.
  He chose another balcony, stared at it until he'd seen it clearly, and turned the ring on his finger.
  From this height, the broken body of the councillor looked like a sprawled toy. Zalarth looked around hastily. Except for some mushrooms, he was alone. Behind him, dark archways led off to unknown chambers. The wizard crouched, drawing a wand from its sheath on his thigh, and peered over the balcony rail.
  There! On another balcony, below and across the hall, stood Elminster. The Old Mage of Shadowdale was puffing his pipe into life and looking down into the hall.
  He'd manage no last-breath escape this time. Zalarth held the wand up and ready as he turned the ring again.
  Abruptly his view of the hall changed to include Elminster, two steps away, raising sardonic eyebrows above his pipe. An instant later, the old man was gone, and Zalarth's wand spat death at empty air.
  Zalarth choked off his snarl of anger as he saw the she-lich through an archway, striding up a broad stair toward him. His wand spoke again, but she only smiled and shook her head as the wand's magic was turned away by an unseen shield in front of her. She raised a clawlike hand, and Zalarth desperately twisted his ring as he looked over the balcony rail.
  The ring took him there, to the floor of the hall, in the shifting rubble. In a breath or two she'd be hurling spells down at him, to say nothing of what Elminster might do. He had only an instant to choose a new destination.
  Unfortunately, the mageling was rising up in front of him like an awakened zombie, face streaming blood. Wild eyes met Zalarth's, and bloody lips parted in surprise.
  "Master Zalarth! How come you h?"
  Zalarth snarled in frustration. The wand crackled, and Avaerl of Sembresh stiffened, sobbed, and buckled at the knees.
  "Gulkuth," he whispered hoarsely, with his last breath, raising a faltering hand. "Gulkuth!" And then he crashed on his face and lay still. Dust curled up around him.
  Zalarth shrugged. Gulkuth? A spell? He looked through the nearest archway, reaching for his ring. At any moment rending magic could rain down on him from above.
  Something stirred under his feet, and the Zhentarim staggered and almost fell. He looked back.
  Sharantyr was struggling to her knees, feeling for her sword. Dust caked her wild-tangled hair and the side of her face, and her eyes were bright with painbut a ring gleamed brightly on her finger, and she was rising, steel in hand.
  She meant his death. Zalarth's wand came up and he said coldly, "It is always a pleasure to destroy a Knight of Myth Drannor. Die, bitch!"
  "Excuse me," said a calm new voice from very close by, and Zalarth felt his elbow struck sharply. His aim was driven wide; the wand's power smote a stone wall harmlessly.
  "Met are we, mage of the Zhentarim," another voice said formally, "and the pleasure, I assure you, is all ours."
  "Aye. Farewell, tyrant mage," the first voice said, and Zalarth Bloodbrow scarce had time to look from one grimly smiling speaker to another before two long swords passed each other in his chest, sliding in with silken ease and leaving a sudden rising burning in their wake, a burning worse than anything he'd ever felt.
  Zalarth felt himself falling, falling with mouth open but no breath left to speak, hands open but with nothing to grab. He stared hard into the rising white mists that had not been there an instant ago, and sank forever into the nothingness beyond them.
  "Best chop off that finger, there. There's no telling what Zhent rings will do, and I'd hate to have to kill this one four or five times," Belkram said briskly. Itharr nodded, looking all around.
  "Where's Elminster gotten tah, there!" He pointed.
  Belkram looked up to the balcony where the Old Mage was unconcernedly puffing on his pipe. Elminster waved to them lazily.
  The two Harpers shouted in horror. Behind Elminster, a bone-white face had appeared, a gleam in its dark eye sockets and a widening grin stretching its ghastly jaw. Long, skeletal arms reached for the Old Mage, and there was nothingutterly nothingthat Itharr or Belkram, or Sharantyr coming unsteadily to her feet beside them, could do.
  Sharantyr threw back her head in despair, and screamed. "Mystra, aid us all!"

23
Until Magic Do Us Part

  "And so it ends," Manshoon said in disgust, turning away from the glowing scrying bowl. "As always . . . mages of the Brotherhood cut down by sword-swinging louts because they're too foolish, or arrogant, or set on their course with no wits to spare for looking around them. This bodes ill for us all. Time and time again we suffer these embarrassments. If the Brotherhood does not triumph in such little things, we will surely fail and be swept away and forgotten."
  Silent faces looked back at him, Anaithe's among them. Fear was written plainly on allin dark eyes, sweat upon temples, and lips that trembled in their hard set. The Lord Most High looked around at them all in long, sour silence. In sudden rage he turned, robes swirling, to snatch down a staff from where it floated in the air above.
  "This is too important to ignore," he snapped. "Elminster's carrying greater power in him now than I've ever felt in any being. Left alone, he is a great danger to us, and if we can seize what he holds, none will be able to stand against us. Guard this place well in my absence, Belaghar, or you will pay the price."
  "But, my lord," the wizard called Belaghar protested, waving a hand toward the bowl. "Is this wise? The Brotherhood needs your leadership now more than .. . ever ... and, if... you ... sh ..." His words slowed and finally died to silence under the cold weight of Manshoon's venomous gaze.
  "Think you I am a fool?" the lord of the Brotherhood asked coldly. "Do I seem likely to be thrown down by any of those"he stretched a long finger toward the glowing waters of the bowl"as two minor magelings were? If it so seems to you, then it is you, Belaghar, who are the fool."
  He strode to a certain archway in the shadowed gloom, then slowed, turned, and added with dark humor, "Gain wisdom, Brother, while I am gone, if you would hold your place among us."
  He looked around slowly at the other mages in the room and added softly, "All of you know, I think, what sort of torment will befall you if any treachery or misjudgments occur in my absence. It would be prudent to see that no such unfortunate supervenities greet me upon my return." He stared at them for two long, silent breaths and added, almost in a whisper, "And I shall return."
  The lord of the Brotherhood made a certain sign in the air before him, and a beholder that had hung invisible over the bowl until now faded slowly into view, its dark eyestalks coiling and writhing menacingly.
  Manshoon made a slight bow in its direction and said, "Watch well, Quysszt, as you always do. You have my permission to act freely to keep things here as we have agreed." He smiled slowly, turned away, then looked back and added, "Guard yourself, my love." It was unclear if he addressed the silent, white-faced Anaithe or the beholder looming low above her head. The High Lord of Zhentil Keep favored the wizards with a calm, deadly look and went out.
  The sigh of men letting out long-held breaths was audible all over the room. A moment later, it was underlaid by the deep, dry humming few men hear and live long enough, thereafter, to tell of: the sound of a beholder chuckling.
  As the sound grew, the gathered Zhentarim suddenly recalled various urgent tasks and concerns that required their immediate presence elsewhere. The room emptied in almost undignified haste.
  The eye tyrant's mottled body descended slowly into the glowing water of the bowl, and the sound it made deepened into the gentle, steady humming of contentment.
  A rat scuttling across a far corner of the room stopped, amazed, at the sound. An eyestalk turned its way almost lazily, and the dark rodent was plucked into the air. It soared helplessly into the gigantic, crooked, many-toothed maw of the monster, which opened to receive it. With a grunt of satisfaction, the beholder settled into the water and rolled.
  When it rose up, dripping, it began to indulge itself in one of its favorite amusements: spitting the bones of prey at nearby targets.
  Nearby stood a lifelike statue of a nude woman holding an oil bowl over her head. Whispers among the Brotherhood that this brazier was a captured slave turned to stone were supported by the expression of terror on the openmouthed stone face. Quyssztellan turned slightly in the air above the bowl, and the rat's freshly bared skull struck that mouth with such force that the bone shattered into dust and fragments.
  The beholder chuckled again and chose another target.
  * * * * *
  "Where will it all end?" Noumea's voice was anguished. "And why was I ever chosen as Magister? I am too weak for this. Mystra needs a war leader among archmages now, not my feeble powers and doubting."
  The tall, slim, conical column of silvery gray light beside her emitted what could only be called a mind-sigh. Its mental voice echoed in her head.
  Ye were chosen, and the Lady is seldom mistaken. Thy kindness and care will be much needed in time soon to come. After the destroyers lash out, the harder task must follow: rebuilding, so that the next destroyer will have something to work upon. The silvery cone flickered, and tiny motes of light drifted about within it. Be of stout heart, Lady Magister. We shall all have need of thee.
  Noumea brushed long hair back out of her face for perhaps the six thousandth time since the Lady had fallen silent. "But how can I fight Manshoon? I have not his power, nor hisruthlessness. I was not made to slay or lay cruel Art upon anyone."
  Ye will do what ye must, as we all do. And soon ye must curb Manshoon. He grows ever more powerful, and there are no gods to gainsay him. Azuth's mind-voice sounded grim, resolute. Have ye not understood what we have seen of his doings?
  The Magister swallowed and nodded. "That spell he devised, it urges on wildness in Art. When he casts it on mages or their spells, their Art is more likely to go awry and destroy them, or bring harm to them through the anger and fear of others."
  And so, daughter of Art: what must ye do?
  Noumea brushed hair back from her face again and drew herself erect. Her skin had turned the color of fresh-fallen snow, but her face was set in determined lines. "I must fight Manshoon." She stared into the darkness around them for a moment, looking regal and serene in her power. Then she turned to the silver-hued cone and seemed to crumple.
  Trembling, she whispered, "Lord Azuth, I am afraid."
  Afraid? Of Art?
  "No," Noumea gasped into the silvery light, "I'm afraid that when I strike with Art, I'll find ... I enjoy it."
  If ye do, does that give thee the license to do nothing, Lady Magister?
  The slim maiden shook her head. "Against gods, I cannot act. Against runaway mages, I must act."
  The silvery cone that was all that was left of the Lord of Mages sent her a warm, comforting mind-touch of agreement and satisfaction. Noumea embraced it suddenly, weeping. Where her tears fell on the warm, electric softness of the glowing cone, tiny winking lights were born.
  * * * * *
  Laeral watched the delicately fluted wineglass float silently and smoothly toward her. When it paused before her, she thanked it gravely. Lathlamber sparkled and glowed within. She smiled, and her slender fingers closed gently around the warm crystal.
  "Lord?" she called softly, knowing he who sent it must be near. In answer, the table grew a fluid, shifting wooden hand, reached out to her leg, and scratched her . . . just on the itch where her boot tops always chafed. Laeral purred contentedly and sighed, "Oh, KhelI do love you."
  "I know it," came a quiet reply from her feet. The grave face of the Lord Mage of Waterdeep rose out of the floor and ascended steadily as his body floated up through the solid, polished obsidian slabs.
  Laeral's dark, beautiful eyes widened for an instant over the wineglass. Then they crinkled into a smile of pure pleasure. "You never cease to amaze me," she said lightly, set down the glass, and threw her arms about him.
  They embraced, there in an upper room of Blackstaff Tower, kissing in fondness and then in passion. After fiercely embracing one another for a time, they loosed and studied each other, and sighed as one.
  "More bad news, Lord?" Laeral asked, knowing her lord and love well, and reading in his face more than he ever thought it showed.
  Khelben nodded, unsmiling. "Chaos grows across the Realms. Beasts not seen in an age swarm over the land, roaming even into the streets of large cities like Iriaebor and Crimmor. Brigands and all manner of orcs, drow, and goblinkin are on the move, raiding, and from everywhere come reports of religious fanatics burning, slaying, and inciting others to open war. The gods themselves are walking Faerun, destroying this and ordering thatand always, Art grows wilder, less reliable, more savage and apt to have unforeseeable effects."
  Laeral nodded. "So much has been apparent for some days, Lord. Yet I sense a darker shadow. Unburden yourself, please. We work better together than when one of us broods alone."
  Khelben smiled. "I apologize ... I can see myself when you speak so. Well, then, my dark thoughts are bent on Manshoon of the Zhentarim. He has set to work in all this fright and wild worry to develop a spell that augments the wild effects of other spells. He's been using this dark magic to turn the Art of foes back on them, or to bring harm through the wild effects of twisted spells."
  Laeral nodded, her eyes large and dark. "So I have heard from two sources, now. You have seen him work this?"
  Khelben nodded grimly. "It is high time, and past time, that we dealt with the Black Master of the Zhentarim, whatever the cost to us. I think I shall begin preparations."
  Laeral reached for him. "The danger! Especially now, when our Art is needed to protect and defend, and this wildness of magic aids his dark spells."
  Khelben nodded again. "I know all this, and yet it is a responsibility I cannot evade longer. If Noumea were more . . . warlike, the task is rightfully hers. But time passes, and his power grows, and she acts not. So ..."
  Laeral managed a smile. "If you go up against the Dread Lord," she said quietly, "do not deny me room to stand at your side."
  Khelben came toward her then, opening his arms to her embrace. "No," he said quietly, "that one thing at least I have learned in our years together. I will not try to keep you from the fray, or tell you what is wisest and safest, or try to shield you. I love you too much, Lady, to so insult you anymore."
  A thought then came to him, one he'd had several times before. Nothing in all Faerun tasted so sweet as one of his Lady Laeral's kisses.
  * * * * *
  Long, skeletal arms went around the Old Mage. He took his pipe out of his mouth as he saw them come into view, turned smoothly within their tightening embrace, and said, "Ah, it is you. Well met, my lady."
  Then, without a trace of repugnance, he leaned forward and kissed the tattered skin and bared bone and teeth of the undead thing's grinning mouth.
  "Oh, Elminster," came a loud, dry voice in reply. "The years have dealt with you far more kindly than they have with me."
  "Not by my Art," Elminster said gently, and his tone was sad. "I am as you see me now by the grace of Lady Mystraand it is not, I must tell you, entirely a blessing."
  "Live by your charm, Old Spellhurler," came the wry response, "and die by it."
  Elminster chuckled, then seemed to remember the shocked audience below. "Excuse me," he asked, "but do you mind if I introduce you to my companions?"
  "Not at all, El. They are welcome in my home."
  Elminster bowed to her as if he faced a queenly lady and not a mold-covered, half-skeletal horror clad in rotten rags. Then he turned and looked down over the balcony rail.
  Three silent, openmouthed, wide-eyed folk stood with blades wavering in their hands, looking up and obviously not knowing what else to do.
  "Will ye come up?" Elminster asked. "I'd like ye to meet the Lady Saharel, queen in this, her castle of Saharelgard."
  The undead lady came to stand at his shoulder and beckoned them with a smile. It looked ghastly, but its warmth was evident in her tone. "You may as well call it Spellgard, El. I've heard that name often down the years and become used to it. I think I'm even starting to like the name. Terribly pretentious, if I'd laid it upon this crumbling pile of mine, but rather impressive when bestowed out of fear by someone else."
  She leaned over the rail, her wild, gray-white hair trailing forward. "Come up, yes. Please come up, and excuse the mess and general. .. decay. I've not the skill at Art or practical knowledge to keep my home in good repair. Moreover, I sleep much of the time, and when I wake I half expect to find that the whole thing has come down on top of me and I'm buried under my own folly ... not an unusual fate for wizards, I'm told."
  Elminster winced. "Ye haven't changed," he complained.
  "Oh, no? Tell that to my mirror, the only one I haven't broken in rage over the years. I was beautiful once."
  As Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr came hesitantly up the stairs, weapons sheathed, they saw Elminster draw the gaunt, long-haired lady to him. Her bared bones clung to his old arms.
  "Ye still are, Saharel," he said, "when I look at you, and not merely what's left of your skin." After a moment he grinned and added, "Didn't I tell thee, once? Ye have beautiful bones."
  The undead lady in his arms sighed loudly and swung her skull-like face toward Sharantyr. "He hasn't changed much, has he?"
  Despite herself, Sharantyr came to a halt, but she managed a smile and said, "If you mean he was prone to shameless flattery and leering ways, when first you knew him, Ladyno, he has not."
  Then she forced herself to step forward and sketched a court salute, that archaic bob of one lady to another.
  Saharel shuddered. "That didn't catch on, did it?" Then she put bony fingers to her mouth. "Forgive me, Lady," she said, quickly. "I did not mean to offend ... I have had few visitors of thy gentle nature, and am somewhat out of practice at common courtesies. Pray accept my apology."
  "Lady," Sharantyr said haltingly, "none is needed."
  The undead sorceress turned to Elminster and poked him sharply in the ribs. "Well, Spellhurler? I've never known your tongue to be so laggard before! You said you'd introduce us, and here I am speaking to a charming young lady and know not her name. What manner of gallant are you?"
  "No gallant, Lady," Elminster said in an affected mock-courtier's voice, "but, I fear, a rogue."
  "Words more true were never uttered," Belkram said to Itharr in a whisper loud enough to be heard all over the vast hall.
  Elminster's glare was lost in the mingled, tinkling laughter of Sharantyr and Saharel. The Old Mage sighed loudly, looked up at the ceiling (which offered him no visible support or even agreement), and said, "May I present the Lady Saharel, Sorceress of Saharelgard, of the High Mages of Netheril?" He knelt, and lifted his hand to indicate the undead sorceress. "The Lady Saharel!" he declaimed grandly.
  The two Harpers bowed solemnly and Sharantyr repeated her salute. Elminster rose between them and said to Saharel, "Good lady, I present to you three distinguished adventurers of the sword. Firstly, the Lady Sharantyr of Shadowdale, Knight of Myth Drannor."
  Saharel stepped forward to lay a hand over Sharantyr's. The bones were cold, smooth, and hard but patted her fingers reassuringly. "Try not to mind my looks," came the dry voice. "I would be your friend." Then she added, "I am glad to hear that Myth Drannor flourishes."
  "Well, actually," Elminster said rather sheepishly, "it does not. It lies in ruin, but the Fair Folk have recently withdrawn from the elven court, and this brave lady is one of a band who have dedicated themselves to guarding the city from those who would pillage it, and to rebuilding its glory someday."
  "So how come you here?" Saharel asked, gazing at Sharantyr.
  The ranger sighed and said, "I came to guard him." She pointed at Elminster.
  "Guard?" The undead lady, obviously astonished, turned to look at Elminster. "From me?"
  "Ah, nono," Elminster said. "It's a delicate matter. Oh, gods blast, ye may as well know it, too." He straightened up. "The gods walk Faerun, Saharel, even as we speak. They are thrown down among us by a greater power, and much of their might stripped from them. By Mystra's will I hold much of her power, and the carrying of it has stripped from me the use of my own Art. I can't conjure up even a hand-glow .. . and I must survive, to pass on what I hold to Mystra or to some mysterious successor she spoke of."
  He sighed and then grinned. "It's all rather a mess, I suppose."
  "And I suppose," Saharel said archly, "you're going to try to pretend to me that you had no part in causing all this?"
  "Ah, indeed," Elminster replied. "For once."
  Two twinkling lights rolled in the skull's empty eye sockets, a sight that made Sharantyr and the Harpers burst into helpless laughter. The glowing eyes came down to fix themselves on the two young men, whose laughter rapidly died away under the eerie scrutiny.
  "And who are these two loud, handsome young men?"
  "These are Itharr and Belkram," Elminster said with a grand gesture, "of the Harpers."
  "Oh, so that caught on, did it? Welcome, gentle sirs, welcome."
  "That?" Itharr asked, guessing what she meant.
  At the same time Belkram said, "Lady, we have come here from the High Dale by means of a magical gate, to defend Elminster. We have been given to understand that his survival, and that of the Realms entire, are one and the same."
  "Well, ye don't have to be so melodramatic about it, lad," Elminster said testily. "It's not the first time around for me at this, ye know."
  "What?" the ranger and the two Harpers erupted, more or less together.
  "Oh, no," Saharel said, obviously enjoying this. "But come. Let us find a place where there's furniture left to sit on in some comfortthe Fountain Hall, perhaps, so you can drink your fill. This one, at least"she poked the Old Mage again"is apt to flap his jaw so much he gets thirsty."
  "Besides," the undead mistress of Spellgard added as she led the way from the balcony along a narrow, dark hall, waving aside cobwebs, and down a crumbling stair, "there are things I must tell you before I grow tired of your fearful looks, you young three. I'm an archlich, not one of your evil lichnee. I don't eat people, or chill the life from them, or steal their spells or souls, or suchlike. It's quite safe to touch me."
  "Aye," Elminster agreed absently. Saharel favored him with a look. Elminster's companions all saw it, in the darkness, by the light the archlich had begun to shed. Her hair and white flesh seemed to glow with a faint silvery radiance.
  They noticed another curious thing. As Saharel walked along, her arm now linked with Elminster's, she seemed to grow more substantial with each passing breath. Her silvery skin seemed to expand into the smooth curves of a tall, beautiful woman. Her face now seemed almost whole, and her eyes more the orbs of a living maiden than two weird, twinkling lights in the empty eye sockets of a skull.
  "If I may ask," Sharantyr ventured as they turned into a rubble-strewn gallery and walked on over the fallen, dusty ruins of arched double doors into a darker chamber, "what did that look mean, Lady? Or is it something private between you?"
  The archlich, who swept along like a silvery beacon in the gloom before her, looked back. "It was, once. This old rogue of yours had the temerity to break my defensive spells and walk in upon me one night. In time, we . . . came to be lovers."
  One silvery hand, not quite all flesh yet, stroked Elminster's cheek. Itharr shivered despite himself as they strode on in the darkness, and his hand crept to the hilt of his sword.
  "It seemed the best way to end our rivalry," Elminster murmured.
  Saharel laughed. "So calculating, Old Spellhurler? You seemed rather... warmer, at the time."
  Elminster came to a sudden halt. Three swords grated out of their scabbards in response, but Saharel scarce had time to look her reproach their way before Elminster swept her into a tight embrace and kissed her. The tensely watching Sharantyr reflected, with sudden rueful amazement, that this is what bards meant when they sang "kissed deep, and with passion." Their lips met and clung, and Saharel began to moan and murmur in Elminster's embrace, and move against him, her tall body swaying.
  Itharr coughed loudly and said to Belkram, "Did you notice, back in the dale, that the price of potatoes was a full two coppers above what the merchants were selling them for in Shadowdale?"
  "Aye," Belkram agreed brightly. "That I did, and commented on the fact to one shopkeeper. A bad harvest, he told me, and higher transportation costs. They ship entire wagonloads of manure up from Sembia, you know, to dress their fallow fields."
  "Wagonloads? Sembia has that to spare?"
  "Well, all those people, crowded together in the coastal cities. It can't all flow out to sea, you know. When the gratings and sewers and all back right up, they set to work with shovels, and start thinking of the High Dale. Then, of c"
  "Do you gentle sirs mind?" Elminster asked testily. "You're worse than Azoun's jesters! I'd like to kiss my old friend a time or two in dignified silence ... if it's not too much trouble."
  Three mouths opened to reply, but their chance was forever swept away from them in the tumult that abruptly followed.
  The floor ahead of them erupted into a rising pillar of red, swirling flamesflames that wailed with the tortured voices of unseen men. The room shook, and dust and small stones fell from the unseen ceiling above.
  Three swords flashed back reflected firelight before blue-white, blinding lightning spat out of the pillar and snaked three long, frighteningly fast fingers out to kiss the drawn steel.
  Three swords blazed with cold fire, and three throats screamed in agony. Dazed and burned, scarcely clinging to life, Sharantyr and the two Harpers dropped their smoking weapons, staggered, and fell.
  Deep laughter roared and echoed from the flames, and a voice that boomed around the chamber bellowed, "Ah, but it feels good indeed to fell those dear to you, Elminster of Shadowdale! I'll make you suffer before I steal the very wits from you!"
  "Manshoon!" Elminster said in disgust to the archlich in his arms. "He'll never grow up, I fear. All this grand voice and needless cruelty .. . like a small child playing at being a wizard."
  "A small child, Elminster, is what you'll be," the booming voice continued, an edge of anger in it now, "after I send a mindworm into your mouth to eat its way up into your brain and steal all your thoughts, to make them mine!"
  Elminster made a rude sound and waggled his fingers in a certain old gesture much used by small children everywhere. Gently he disengaged himself from Saharel and took out his pipe.
  A bolt of lightning snatched it away from him.
  "Oh, no, you don't, 'Old Mage.' I watched you earlier. Think yourself clever, don't you, with your rings and your spheres and your little pipe? Stumbling along from droll little joke to impressive little phrase, hiding your lost Art behind cryptic words and wands that are almost drained now, aren't they? What a feeble fool you've become! Scarce worth my taking on the spells to defeat you." As the great voice rolled across the room, the faint cries in the flames died away. Manshoon's cruel magic had drained the last life energy from certain unwitting Zhentarim magesthose he deemed his most powerful rivalsall over Faerun. Their energies had brought him here to triumph. The flames drifted nearer and grew brighter. "You can't trick me, Elminster. And you can't hope to stand against my magic. This is the end of you, finally. The defeat and utter destruction of the much-vaunted Elminster at the hands of the Zhentarim he hates so much. At the hands of Manshoon."
  There followed much laughter. Sharantyr, lying in darkness with the healing ring Elminster had put there earlier glinting on her finger and the stench of her burned hair heavy in her nostrils, heard it faintly as she struggled back to consciousness.
  "You won't trick me as you did Bellwind. I'll take your power and your knowledge both, through the worm, and not link our minds. You cannot escape, Elminster. You are doomed."
  "Oh, no," came a soft reply. "Doom will come here, indeed, but I believe you have mistaken the being who will fall."
  Not far from the shaken, smoldering Old Mage stood the archlich, tall and erect, a silvery glow around her wasted, bony form. She stood proud and fearless, and from her outstretched hands streams of silver radiance erupted, arcing toward the pillar of flame.
  "That is not your only mistake, Manshoon," the soft voice continued. "Your first was coming uninvited into my home. Here, my power is supreme."
  The silvery radiance was expanding into a gigantic shield of light, englobing the flames. Bolts of lightning and great blades of shimmering white force sprang out of the fiery pillar, but the silver glow absorbed them, growing ever larger and stronger. The very air crackled with power.
  "Your second and greatest mistake, Manshoon," Saharel continued calmly, "was in daring to attack my beloved, a man who is also my guest and thus under my protection. And your third, if you must speak of fools at Art, was to so dismiss his magicand mine."
  Silver radiance shrouded the flames now and hid them from view. The light grew and grew until it seemed like the moon itself shone in the chamber. Saharel stood like a small, silvery flame, flickering at the base of it all. Her voice wavered with her light and came more faintly.
  "It is given to every archlich to choose his or her passing, and to spend all the force of life and love and Art in a task. Mine is thy death, Manshoon."
  The silvery shroud grew suddenly blinding in its brightness. On the floor, Belkram cried out and covered his eyes.
  "Remember me, El! Remember me!" came the archlich's wavering voice.
  "Aye," Elminster said, through sudden tears. "I shall never forget thee, Saharel."
  There was a sudden sigh, perhaps of satisfaction, and the light winked out.
  Somewhere across the room, amid faint, fading silvery motes, the bare bones of Manshoon fell to the floor with a clatter.
  Elminster watched them shatter and crumble, and stared at the last silvery motes until darkness came again.
  Then he said roughly, "I can never forget thee, Saharel. So I will remember thee ... with honor."
  His voice caught, and when it returned, it was bleak. "Along with the others. All the others."
  He stood in lonely silence among his fallen companions for a long time.
  Of Saharel of Spellgard, no trace was left. Sharantyr could see clearly again long before she was able to move, and she saw the glistening spot on the stones in front of the Old Mage, the spot that grew and grew with each tear that fell.
  Then there was a sudden burst of light behind herwarm, golden light, like sunlight.
  Elminster turned a face wet with tears toward the light before Sharantyr could. Upon his face she saw a look of recognition, then of pleasure, then of faint exasperation. His voice, when it came, was calm and gentle, as though he'd just looked up from a soothing book while at ease beside his beloved pool.
  "Noumea," he said, "why must ye always be just a little too late?"
  * * * * *
  Elsewhere, deep and dark, something stirred in musty gloom. A hand slid out from under a shroud thick with dust, pushing the fabric aside, and took up the rod it knew would be there. The rod of rulership. Just in case.
  The hidden crypt was dark, its air stale and bad, but only a few steps were needed to cross to its door, pull down the ornate handle, and shove hard.
  Thick wax broke and fell away in crumbled ruin, and light flooded in. A startled man in black armor turned with a curse, hands darting for a scabbarded sword.
  The hand that did not hold the rod shot out of the darkness and closed around the man's throat before that blade could be drawn. A slow, cold voice said, "You know my orders. You are never to be without a weapon in your hand. Seal up this place again and await the doom I shall pronounce on you. After dinner."
  The speaker released the man, heard him fall to his knees with a strangled cough, and strode on. The cobbles ahead rose up in a long ramp toward the sun and the streets of the city above. He was halfway up the ramp when the guard far behind him managed to call hoarsely, "Yes, Dread Lord. Your will be done."
  He did not look back.
  The streets of Zhentil Keep were crowded. The weather was fair and trade brisk. Startled looks were many, but even the thickest crowds parted or melted away, as if by magic, at his approach.
  Manshoon strode steadily across the city toward the Tower High. This long walk in dusty garments meant that his enemiesaccursed Elminster doubtless among themhad won. Again.
  The black-robed, dark-eyed Lord Archmage of Zhentil Keep checked then, half turning to look back. Had there been other bodiesmore waiting Manshoonslying in the crypt beside him? How many times had he made this walk?
  How many more times would he make it, in seasons and years and ages to come? And would it ever seem less lonely?

24
The Void, Love, and Doom

  Gentle hands touched her shoulder. Sharantyr stopped her agonized struggle to sit up and sagged back thankfully into the comfort of those hands. Looking up, she saw Elminster's old, bearded face looking down at her, lined with compassion.
  She moved her lips, found them very dry, and managed to ask, "Do I look that bad, Old Mage?"
  Elminster smiled then. It came slowly but stretched his face with pleasure for a long time before he said, "Well, ye are certainly better than I'd feared, lassShar. Lie ye back awhile and rest. I need the ring that is healing ye now, to use on these two impetuous Harpers, or we may lose them."
  Sharantyr managed a nod and smile, though pain still raged within her at every movement, and she felt weak and sick. Itharr and Belkram must feel far worse.
  Elminster's slow, careful hands turned her on her side, pillowing her head on her arm, before he drew off the ring. Its loss left a cold tingling in that hand. Then slow waves of pain came from her other arm, her sword arm, where the wizard's bolt had burned.
  "Lie easy, Shar. We've given Manshoon a death this day. Not his final one by any means, but he'll be a weak wizard for a time, and that is something."
  Past the kneeling archmage, Sharantyr saw what was left of her sworda half-melted, misshapen sliver of twisted metal. Her eyes went to Elminster's hand, where Manshoon's lightning had struck. She swallowed and looked away. The fingers handling her so gently were only ashy stumps.
  Sudden tears blurred her sight, and she stared at the sword until she could see again. Beyond it stood Noumea.
  The Magister's face was happy as Elminster rose and turned toward her. "It's all right, Old Mage," she said. "I've used my magic on the two Harpers. They sleep, but they'll be fi" She broke off, eyes widening in horror. She was staring at Elminster's burned hand.
  Sharantyr felt fresh tears welling up in her eyes. The image of Noumea's shocked, wounded face would be with her forever.
  Nothing should ever happen, to make folk look like that.
  A burning rage began to build in her, bringing a lump to her throat. "Manshoon," she snarled through her teeth, "one day you'll pay for Saharel and all the other pain you've caused, if I have to cut my way through an army of your lackeys to get to you. This I swear."
  Elminster turned to look at her. His face wore surprise and anxiousness, and just a hint of pity.
  Sharantyr lay there in rising pain and gasped, "Don't look at me like that, El. I can . . . protect myself. II can stay on my feet long enough to cut down Manshoon, when my chance comes."
  Elminster just shook his head and knelt to put the ring of regeneration back on her finger. "Oh, Sharantyr," he said softly. "There are such better things to do with thy life than to waste it in ending his." He stroked her hair, as Noumea came hesitantly closer. "I've lost Saharel and others, before herto him. Don't add thyself to his take. I need ye, lass."
  He knelt then to kiss her cheek, and Sharantyr felt a wetness on her forehead as he straightened up again. A tear had fallen on her.
  The Magister came to stand over them both. A blue-white glow was growing around her slim hands, and her eyes were very dark.
  "Elminster," she said quietly, "I would heal thee, if I you would allow."
  The Sage of Shadowdale peered up at her, beard bristling. He looked very old just then. "Do ye dare, Noumea?" he asked. "The power I hold can be deadly to those who touch me with magic. One Zhent wizard died when he tried a stealspell on me."
  He waved his charred hand at her. "Ye hold much of Our Lady's power. What if ye touch me with it and release what I hold? We could both be slain, and the Realms laid waste around us."
  The Magister wavered, seeming a very frail and unsure young girl for a long breath.
  Then she said, as quietly as before, "If that is the price, then let it be so. I would not want to live on as a mage if Mystra's power will let me topple towers, deal death, and blast apart peaks but not let me heal one I am honored to count as a friend, who has rendered this world such service as few understand and none I know can equal."
  She faced him while Sharantyr clenched her hand around the familiar tingling of the ring and held her breath. Silence stretched.
  Then Elminster thrust his charred hand toward her and said simply, "Thank you. Do it."
  Noumea stepped forward, extending her own hand. The blue-white glow around it grew stronger. She reached out slowly.
  They touched, and the radiance was suddenly blinding. Sharantyr closed her eyes, shaking her head against the searing white light in her head.
  She heard Noumea gasp raggedly, then hiss in pain.
  "Easy," Elminster rumbled, and Sharantyr heard the Magister moan in reply. She opened her eyes again but could see nothing.
  She heard Noumea stagger backward, and heard the panting breaths that followed.
  "By Our Lady," the Magister said unsteadily, "but that was close, as close to disaster as I ever want to be. I never knew . . . Art could . . . hurt so much."
  "I did," Elminster said, and Sharantyr heard pride in his voice as he added, "I am pleased, indeed, Lady, that ye stood so much pain and stuck to thy task."
  He chuckled. "I also find it hard to be displeased that thy task was to make me whole."
  The Magister laughed then, a little unsteadily, and said, "I don't know if I'm strong enough, after this, to go chasing Manshoon."
  Elminster shook his head. "Don't waste thy Art. Ye are so much better at healing and aiding, Noumea. Healers and helpers of power are so much rarer, in this and other worlds, than those who can rage and slay and lay waste with little effort. Manshoon will spend time now fending off rivals in his own Brotherhood who'll see his weakness as a chance to destroy or supplant him. Yet if ye go into Zhentil Keep after him, they'll all strike at thee for the glory and the power they'd hope to win. The Realms have only one of thee, but they seems to have an endless supply of evil, power-hungry magelings. Don't throw all away fighting them, for ye'd surely go down in the end."
  Noumea bowed her head. "You're right, I suppose. I have little love for war, and less skill at it." Sharantyr saw the movement; sight was coming slowly back to her.
  "So I've noticed, a time or two," Elminster said dryly.
  Noumea looked up at him quickly through wildly disarranged hair, anguish in her eyes. "Have I made many mistakes, Old Mage? Should I know better how to deal with this wild magic? Am I worthy to serve Our Lady at all?"
  "Ye have done wellbetter than almost all of thy predecessors I have known. The Art needs thy caring, not brilliance of invention at spellcraft, or a lot of cold-hearted scheming and vain, spectacular spellcasting," Elminster replied gravely. "Ye continue to surprise and please us, Lady Magister. Ye cannot help who ye are, and ye have dealt well with what ye now are. Don't try to change thyself. It never works, and will make thee as unhappy as those ye mistreat in the trying."
  Noumea beamed at him, damp-eyed but radiant. Then she sighed and said, "I must go, Elminster. There is so much to do. Art everywhere is awry. Without Mystra, all is in chaos. Hurry and give her power back to her, Old Mage."
  "There is still a Mystra? Ye have spoken with her, then? Why has she not taken it, if she wants it?" Elminster asked sharply.
  The Magister looked at him, her gentle face suddenly terrible in its fear. "I fear she cannot. She dare not speak to thee, for fear something will reach through her to snatch at the power you hold." She walked across the chamber, searching for something, and seemed to find it.
  Stopping, she looked up at him through her long hair and said urgently, "Be very careful, Old Mage. Our Lady depends on you, and I cannot stay to guard you."
  Elminster chuckled. "So ladies always seem to say to me, just when I'm hoping they'll stay for a time. Go with my good wishes, Lady Magister."
  Noumea gave him an unsteady smile, stepped onto a stone that held a deep-graven rune, and vanished.
  Elminster stared at where she'd been for a long time. Then he turned, looking old again, and walked across the floor to where Saharel had stood. He bent down in the darkness, and when he straightened again there was a pitiful, crumbling, charred skull in his hand.
  The Old Mage looked at it, shook his head slightly, kissed it, and tucked it into his robe. Then he came back to Sharantyr. As he extended a hand to help her up, he managed a smile, but it faded quickly, leaving a face haunted by old memories and weariness.
  "Old Mage?" she asked. "What now?"
  "I know not," Elminster told her. "Where to run that other mages cannot follow? And who knows where the fallen gods may lurk in the Realms? If I meet with one, I cannot hope to survive any disagreement that may befall, and risk losing Mystra's power to the grasp of another. That, in turn, must not occur if the Realms as we know them are to weather this great storm."
  He spread weary, empty hands, then suddenly brightened and hurried over to the rune Noumea had found.
  "Hah!" he said happily, and Sharantyr's heart leapt. He was confident again, and she felt safe once more.
  "We can use this," Elminster said in satisfaction. "Rouse the two snoring beauties, will ye?"
  Sharantyr chuckled, shook her head, and went over to the still forms of the Harpers.
  * * * * *
  Storm drew in a deep breath, let it out slowly, and smiled.
  "Well?" Jhessail and Lhaeo asked together, across the table. "What happened?"
  The bard closed her eyes, still smiling, and said, "Manshoon died. Elminster lives."
  "Manshoon destroyed? Elminster's work?"
  Storm shook her head. "He died, but he has worked at dark Art hidden since Netheril fell, and has other bodies to flee to. The Old Mage was there, but the magic that slew Manshoon was not his."
  The bard trembled with weariness, and Jhessail laid a warning hand on Lhaeo's shoulder. They exchanged glances, saw Storm hide a yawn, and fell silent.
  In the kitchen of that farmhouse in Shadowdale, time passed in slow silence. Storm's eyes fluttered and then closed, and her head sank lower. Careful, quiet hands moved her mug out of harm's way. The bard did not notice.
  Jhessail and Lhaeo put their arms around each other and sat in companionable silence. Slowly, before their eyes, it happened. Still smiling, Storm Silverhand laid her head on her hands and slept.
  * * * * *
  "Draw thy daggers," Elminster said gruffly. "Ye seem to feel better when ye have some piece of sharp steel in hand. And my first thoughts, as always," he added, irony heavy in his tone, "are for thy comfort, ye three."
  The Old Mage watched steel flash out in answer, then nodded, turned, and said, "Follow."
  He stepped onto the rune and was gone.
  Sharantyr sighed, hefted the knifewhat good would this little fang do?in her hand, and followed.
  Abruptly she was elsewhere. Behind her, she heard Itharr exclaim in surprise.
  All around them was darknessa deep, chiming void of blackness lit only by faintly glowing purple mists and by drifting, winking lights. The mist curled lazily about, and there was no horizon or boundary or anything solid to be seen, only endless darkness. They stood on nothing, hanging in emptiness.
  "Old Mage," Sharantyr asked fearfully, "what is this place?"
  A little way distant stood Elminster. He had grown somehow taller and stood outlined with a blue-white aura.
  He turned and smiled at them reassuringly. "This is called by some the Flame Void. It is a strange place, not quite out of the Realms yet not in Faerunat least, not in the Faerun that most folk can see and reach. Take a good look about at all this nothing. 'Tis probably the only time ye'll ever see it." He looked past her at the two Harpers, nodded reassurance to them, and said to them all, "Come."
  Then he turned and walked confidently away, treading on nothing.
  "Where are we going?" the lady ranger said, hurrying to catch up with the Old Mage. Though she still felt nothing under her boots, and a sharp, falling feeling seemed alive in her stomach, she could move merely by thinking of moving in a direction.
  "To a place I know," Elminster said, "where Lady Mystra often leaves messages, or things, for me. It is my hope that she can feel my arrival and respond."
  "Oh," Sharantyr replied, not much enlightened and showing it in her tone. Elminster said no more, and she fell into step beside him. The two Harpers caught up to flank them, and all four went on together.
  They walked for a long time, and Sharantyr began to notice things around them that had escaped her before. Flitting shadows swirled half-seen in the mists, like living thingsthey probably were alive, she realized with a faint, crawling fearand weird lights danced and glimmered in the distance.
  She exchanged glances with the two young men who strode with them, and saw in their eyes the same fear and wonder that she knew shone in her own.
  "Elminster," Belkram asked after a while, "is your magic back?"
  The Old Mage simply looked at him in reply.
  Belkram frowned. "Then how is it you brought us all here?"
  Elminster shrugged. "The rune held the power; it is a gate. I merely selected its destination by bending my will to the choice." He looked around at them all. "An exercise all of ye would benefit greatly from: thinking hard about what ye're doing, from time to time. A novel idea, I'll admit."
  The Harpers sighed almost as loudly as Sharantyr did.
  Then Itharr asked, "How does one find anything here? You seem to know where you're going, but I can't see any trace of our passage, or landmarks to guide you."
  Elminster nodded and grinned. "No, ye can't, can ye?" was all he said.
  They walked on until a glowing yellow light could be seen in the distance ahead. It seemed brighter than the other lights and gradually grew larger.
  They approached it at a steady pace until they could see that it was a translucent sphere of soft, golden light with something inside it. The mists seemed to avoid it; the light hung alone in a clear space of velvet darkness.
  The two Harpers peered ahead, frowns on their faces.
  "Is thata tower?" Belkram asked hesitantly, moving his head from side to side to get a better look at whatever it was.
  Elminster nodded. "A simple stone tower, a hollow cylinder with a spiral stair climbing around its inside to the top. If there's no creature hiding there, leave your daggersand anything else metal ye may be carrying, no matter how small; don't forget buckles and hairpins and any other jewelry ye may haveat the bottom and get to the top, all of ye."
  "Why?" Itharr asked.
  Elminster sighed. "Ye have no idea just how tired of that particular word one can get, after even a few hundred years. Just do it. After all ye've gone through to keep me alive, I'd like to see ye survive this. It's thy turn."
  * * * * *
  There was no lurking monster; the tower was empty. The three left all their metal at the base of the tower, as Elminster had orderedand, necessarily, most of their clothing with it.
  Feeling more vulnerable than ever, they hurried up old, worn stairs of some smooth black stone none of them had ever seen before and soon came out on a bare circular battlement.
  "What is this place?" Belkram asked, looking down.
  Below them, Elminster had also discarded all the metal about his persondagger after dagger, hidden item after hidden item, from various pockets of his robesand now stood quite alone in the middle of golden nothingness.
  He faced away from them and spoke a Name.
  He whispered it, so that they never heard what it was, but its echoes burst back at them with a sound like thunder, shaking the tower and causing the golden light to pulse with sudden brightness.
  There came a burst of blue-white radiance beside Elminster. It was so bright that they had to look away, but it faded quickly.
  When they could see again, a young girl stood beside the old wizard. They faced each other, and a shimmering blue-white light pulsed about the girl's bare back.
  She seemed nude, and yet light played about her so one could not be sure. She spoke with Elminster for a few breaths, then they stepped forward into an almost fierce embrace.
  "Ye gods," Itharr muttered. "I've seen this old man kiss more maids, since first I laid eyes on him."
  "It's a wonder he has any lips left, after six or seven hundred years, or whatever his count really is," Belkram replied.
  "Hush," Sharantyr hissed. "Look!"
  Below them, vivid light pulsed, more blue than white and coming from the joined lips of the wizard and the girl. Blue-white flames suddenly burst from that joining of their faces and enshrouded them both.
  Itharr stirred. "What if that's killing him, after all w"
  Belkram laid an iron hand on his arm. "Stay. I think not. And even if it does, I fear there's not a gods-blessed thing we can do."
  The flames died, and the two figures below parted, patting each other like fond old friends saying farewell. The flames seemed to have harmed neither.
  Then the girl was rising toward where they stood watching atop the tower. Sharantyr swallowed.
  "You know who she is, don't you?" she said. Two slow, fearful nods were the only reply.
  The girlno, the ladyhad risen smoothly up to meet them. She floated in over the battlements, and they drew back to make room for her.
  She was thin, and clad only in shifting motes of blue-white light. Her beauty was awesome, matchless. Sharantyr felt suddenly coarse and clumsy in her presence.
  She did look like a young, thin maiden, but taller than any human girl would be. Long, dark hair moved about her shoulders as if with a life of its own. She was sleekly graceful, and as she moved, her body shimmered with those tiny winks and sparkles of ever-shifting light, motes that seemed to curl out of her skin. Her eyes glowed with the same eerie blue-white light. She made no sound as she came, and her feet did not touch the stone but floated just above it.
  She smiled, and her eyes glowed bright blue.
  "You have my thanks," she said in a voice that held soft thunder, "and that is no small thing. You have guarded my champion and have my deep gratitude. While I hold any power in the Realms, you cannot be harmed by magic."
  And then Mystra reached out a hand that glowed with power and touched each of them fleetingly.
  The touch was like a leaping spark that left a tingling and an exhilarating feeling of lightness, strength, and alertness. Wonderingly, the three looked at each other and saw that their eyes glowed faintly, blue-white.
  A head came up out of the hole by their feeta familiar, bearded head. It was followed by the rest of the Old Mage's body, as the wizard climbed the last steps of the stair to join them.
  Mystra smiled fondly at him, reached out a slim hand to caress his cheek, and whispered, "As usual, my thanks, Elminster. We'll meet again ... soon. Beware wild magic. I go now, to face Bane."
  In a flare of blue-white flames, she was gone.
  The silence that followed was broken by Sharantyr, who drew a shuddering breath and said faintly, "What now, El?"
  Elminster threw his arms around her and hugged her tightly. "Ah, Shar, ever that question, eh? I cannot see. Mystra remains a prisoner of another godManshoon's god, Baneand is not free to use the power I returned to her. There's another who must free her ... I cannot safely act, for if I fall to Bane and he learns, through the power and knowledge that are still mine, who and where the rest of the Chosen are, he could still wrest Mystra's power from her and have governance over all Artor lose such order, for all of us, in his destruction of Mystra."
  The Old Mage looked at the two Harpers and asked almost challengingly, "Excitement enough for ye, lads? Adventure enough?"
  Itharr and Belkram shook their heads and chuckled rather faintly.
  Elminster stood still, his face buried in Sharantyr's hair, and said roughly, "Ah, SharI have grown to care for thee very much in these few days since ye took out thy sword to guard me. Whatever befalls now, when we find our way back to the Realms ye knowstay with me, will ye?"
  Sharantyr kissed him and said softly, "Of course. I can't guard you if I don't, now can I?"
  Belkram tapped her shoulder. "Ah, if you're in a kissing mood..."
  Sharantyr wrinkled her nose and thrust a strong arm around Elminster, straight into the Harper's midriff.
  He doubled over with a comical roll of his still-glowing blue eyes and staggered back, colliding with the low battlement. He overbalanced with a startled cry and fell backward off the tower.
  Sharantyr screamed.
  Elminster turned in her grasp and made a lazy gesture.
  In the air below them, a huge phantom hand appeared beneath the falling Harper.
  He fell into it as softly as a feather kisses the ground it falls onto and was borne gently upward, cradled in the giant hand, to rejoin them. Belkram stood up on the palm of the hand as it came, tottering about uncertainly like a man on stilts hopping about in a cesspool and likely at any moment to come to a far closer acquaintance with it. His efforts and expression made Itharr bellow with laughter.
  Sharantyr turned to embrace Elminster again. She was ecstatic. "Your Artit's back! You can work magic again!"
"Aye," the Old Mage said with a sigh that could not quite conceal his grin. "That, d'ye see, is old Elminster's doom."
The Shadow of the Avatar, Book Two
Cloak of Shadows
By Ed Greenwood

As the Time of Troubles came down upon the Realms, dark things watched and waited their chance . . .
The Fall of the Gods had come to pass. The gods came to Toril amid flame and destruction, and the world was riven and changed forever. Amid all the flames and strife, the Chosen of Mystra, were hurt more than most guardians of Faertin, for the servants of the goddess of magic discovered that spells were raging wild all over the world. Magic would obey them no more than it did anyone else.
Just when they needed it most.
Against them stood outlaws. orc hordes, and fearsome monsters that had long lurked on the fringes of the bright realms and grown hungry indeed. Even the gods themselves were wandering Faerein, slaying and plundering and despoiling all that fell within their reach, and battling with reckless savagery whoeveror whatever stood against them.
It was a time for heroes to stand forth and fight to defend whatever could be saved of the splendor and strength of the civilized Realms. Folk looked to the Chosen, who stood helpless, with magic a treacherous thing in their hands.
All save one. . . one who dared not act at all. Elminster of Shadowdale, the Old Mage feared and revered across Faertin for nigh a thousand years, held so much of the divine power of the dying goddess Mystra within him that he dared not cast so much as the simplest spell, for fear of shattering the Realms around him and being torn apart in the world-destroying conflagration that might follow.
His foes, however, were on the move. Elrninster's inability
to hurl spells against them must be concealed from everyone. One of his fellow Chosen sent two of her Harper pupils to guard him, and a brave lady Knight of Myth Drannor took the same task upon herself Together the three young people aided Elminster as he plunged into the depths of Zhentarim plots in the High Dale that lay in the Thunder Peaks between Cormyr and Sembia.
Yet even as Elminster and his companions defeated Zhentarim evil once more, older and more sinister foes had their own dark designs on the Realms. The Malaugrym, masters of shadow, watched the chaos and ruin in Faerg n from their dark castle and grew hungry to conquer as much of Faern as might fall within their grasp. Shapeshifters and sorcerers of ancient power, they had long feared to challenge Elminster; who hunled and slew them whenever lhey ventured into the lands he held dear.
If Elminster was powerless, and the Chosen were busy trying to hold the Realms, the Malaugryrns' chance had come at last. If lhey look the shapes of rightful rulers, the Chosen would actually defend their new-won realms for them! All that was needed, to make victory a sure thing, was shadow magic lhat would hide the Malaugryms' true essence, inside their stolen shapes, from any Chosen who survived the Time of Troubles.
All that was needed to conquer Faertin was a Cloak of Shadows...

Chapter 1
A Long Day Indeed
Faertin, Rattrin, Mirtul 29, The Year of Shadows
A dark shadow that had eyes drifted down unseen over a mist-shrouded battlefield where weary, snarling creatures hacked at each other with blood-drenched blades at the end of a day that had been long indeed. The Dark One looked around at hill after hill of destruction, and sighed. Waste, all this blood and dying. Waste on this plane and that, puny beings struggling to seize fleeting power, when might enough to shatter all their realms at once throbbed and strove all around them.
Magic. The power eternal, the energy behind all. He must have it. For centuries-eons, nowhe had come back, again and again, to that gnawing need. . . and that stone wall blocking his hunger. Up against the shield that left him helpless once more. The Dark One snarled. Down the long years he had learned to be old, but not to be patient. Patience was for the powerless.
Restlessly, Bane turned toward the sun, corpses shifting under his black boots, and spun himself homeward through the shifting voids, back to the body that grimly paced the Cold Castle. Ethereal mists whi rled briefly around him, and then he was striding again along the windblown battlements, looking far out over bleak Acheron. Magic, aye. Always it came back to that, and to her.
Mystra, the Lady who was magic. He must possess her, rule heror destroy herto gain true mastery of magic. But how? Many webs he'd spun to take her some still hung waiting, even now-but the very power he sought warned her and shielded her, time after time.
In the ashen failures of his last few attempts, she'd even laughed at him. Bane whirled with a roar of sudden
fury there on the battlements, and drove his fist through a stout merlon, smashing it to stony rubble that rattled and sprayed down over his startled and fearful minions in the courtyard below. If only it had been her laughing face! The kivergod take tier! bile--
Bane froze in sudden thought, and a slow, dark smile spread softly across his angry face. Aye, let the Overgod take her.
Memories that were dim even for him flickered briefly, and he felt the stirrings of excitement. It might well work.
Yes. It was high time for the overproud, overreaching gods to be cast down again.
*****
The Plane of Acheron, and a forgotten ruin in the Savage Frontier backlands, Mlrtul 29
Cold laughter rang out through the castle, and scurrying servants of Bane paused in their scuttlings long enough to shudder before they hastened on again. Such sounds boded ill for all.
Still smiling like a wolf rising in bloody satisfaction from a fresh kill, Bane spun himself away from cold Acheron once more, heading for Torii. Of course.
Even gods need a playground. Because Faerun was Mystra's, he had made it hisas had, increasingly, the others. The Dark One cloaked himself in shadows and sought the throne he liked to sit in, deep in the riven ruins of the once-proud city of Netheril.
In a moment he was there, surrounded by the drifting, sparkling shreds of forgotten spells. He peered around, feeling with his mind for living, watching things, but none were near. He looked around at the dim depths of the hall. Strange, how the shattered splendor of this place held his interest, awakening old memories and long-quiet lusts .. .
*****
The Castle of Shadows, Mirtul 29
In a place of shifting shadows, someone else grinned like a blood-dripping wolf as he ended a spell and slid away from the dark thoughts of the god Bane, unnoticed and now traceless. It was done. At last.
MiIhvar of the Malaugrym watched the gray and purple sparks chase each other endlessly over the spell-weave and nodded in satisfaction. He'd taken what he needed from the unwitting mind of Bane while it was blinded by arrogance and driven by dark passion. He allowed himself to relax, letting out his breath in a long sigh. The most dangerous part was done; all that was left was the fun.
He did not have to look to take down the razor-sharp waiting runeblade from the wall beside him. The naked priest of Mystra bound to the stone altar before him whimpered once, then stiffened in silent resolve-until the blade swept down.
Blood and screams rose together, and the gray and purple sparks leapt from the weave and raced down Milhvar's trembling arms, their power surging into the fading life he held, sweeping it away, absorbing it.
Slowly the power of the crowning enchantment gathered and swirled within him. Milhvar smiled coldly as the last of the staring clergyman's life-force flowed into the web, then turned to look at his creation.
As if in answer, the cloak hanging in the spell web stirred for the first time. Success.
Milhvar gestured, and watched the cloak rise like a silent specter to his bidding. He thought of his dead brother, and of a certain old wizard in a fair, forested vale Shadowdale, that was itand nodded slowly. Soon it would be time to go hunting. Soon.
*****
Somewhere in Faertin, Mirtul 29
Overhead, the dragon unfurled its wings with ponderous grace, and began to dance. The tall, silver-haired
lady laughed in delight, and the music she'd conjured swelled around them all. Pegasi neighed their pleasure aloud as they swooped past her, and the spell-dance quickened.
The dragon managed a curving cartwheel across the
sky, the wind whistling through its scales, and Mystra leapt to meet it, trailing bright silver stars in her wake. The wordless song rose with her, soaring, exultant-and was suddenly shattered.
In the air, the goddess of magic faltered, and her silvery light flickered. With little cries of unease, the cavorting creatures broke off their dancing to watch. Mystra drifted on until she touched the dragon and clung to it, but her face wore a frown, and her eyes gazed on something far off
Suddenly she shivered. "Evil Art," she whispered sadly, waving her arms as if she could brush the moment away. Returning from wherever her sight had taken her, she shook herself and looked around the waiting sphere of gravely watching creatures.
"A great and dark Art has been worked," she told them calmly. "Not in Torii, but by someone who watches this world and thinks of it even now."
"We must be vigilant," the dragon said then, the deep, melodious rumble of its voice startling them all.
"Aye, that we must," Mystra agreed gravely, and swept her hands up. From between her long, graceful fingers streamed a bright shower of silver stars that made the watching creatures gasp and murmur in awe.
The music sang forth again. "I will not have the spelldance ended," the goddess said with sudden fire, "by every evil deed of Art . . . or we should never dance together at all"
Warily the pegasi, faerie dragons, sprites, swanmays, and the great form of the gigantic copper dragon circled her and began to move in time to the music again. Stars dove and spun around them as the music swelled, but there was a darkness among them now, a shadow of Mystra's mood that even the most spirited of her leaps did not dispel. "Bad times ahead," said one faerie dragon to
another, and there was reluctant agreement. A note of proud defiance crept into Mystra's music as the dance went on. More than one troubled creature fell away from it and made for home, and safe lairs, and places where seeking-magic was stored. Bad times are better faced on the crumbling pages of tomes that relate histories of long, long agonot as deadly events that tomorrow may bring.
*****
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 6
Milhvar grew a long, tentacled arm that flattened into a leathery wing, and flapped it once. The power of his wing beat plucked him from his feet and took him a good way across the chamber. He noted approvingly that the cloak's gray and hard-to-see substance shifted shape along with him. His cloak of spells was truly a cloak of shadows, as suited to shifting as any of the blood of Malaug. Now to test it against the Chosen of Mystra, to see if the enchantments he'd devised truly held. The cloak must foil all magic wielded or cast by any sworn minion of Mystra, from her mortal Chosen to Azuth himself. If it proved able, the Chosen wouldn't be able to sense the approach of the Malaugrym . . and perhaps his kin would have their revenge upon the hated Elminster at last!
Milhvar made a certain gesture. The cloak shrank away from him, rolled itself into a ball, and dwindled into a thing of wisps and tatters. Smiling faintly, he took it in his hand and headed for his favorite hiding place. His cloak of shadows was best kept secret until it had served him in winning far greater power in the ranks of the clan than he commanded now.
Power he deserved. What, after all, had the Malaugryin done under the command of Dhalgrave? Elminster yet lived, and none who walked in the shadows dared set foot on Faerun without great preparationand greater stealth. All we do these days, Milhvar thought sourly, is watch from afar and brood. And the time for that is fast
running out. Something was building among the gods, something that could be turned to advantage by those who knew how to bend both magic and shadows to their will.
"And then," Milhvar told the darkness politely, "things will changerather violently, as they deserve to." He thought he heard an answering whimper, and stiffened for an instant before he recalled that the cloak in his hand was a priest of Mystra. Of course. He chuckled. "You serve me now," he told it with a savage grin. "Try to remember that."
As he cast it into a vortex of concealing shadows, the cloak did not answer. He chuckled again and turned away.
* * * *
Shadowdale, Kythorn 14
The young lass in leathers screamed as a blackfletched arrow leapt from nowhere to take her in the shoulder. It hissed into her flesh before she had time to do more than gape at it, with its one red feather among the sable. The force of its flight plucked her from her feet, spun her about, and slammed her to her knees in the snow. Her face creased in startled pain as the vision wavered, like still water stirred with a hand, and then faded away, leaving only empty air over the table.
Itharr stared at the spot where the conjured image had been and shook his head. "Not a gentle way to die," the burly Harper said softly, one strong hand tightening absently on his tankard.
Sharantyr nodded and set down her ale, stern sadness in her gray-green eyes as she met his gaze. Itharr blinked. The lady knight's fine-boned beauty had made many a man stop and stare, and the firelight dancing on her face made her seem a creature from a dream. Itharr stared into her eyes for a long moment before the other man in the room spoke, and she turned to look at him.
"Whence came you by this magic?" Belkram of the
Harpers asked quietly over his own tankard. Sorrow to match Sharantyr's own glimmered in his eyes. He shifted in his chair, firelight flashing on his smooth-worn leathers, every inch the fearless fighting man. A wellused long sword shifted with him, riding his hip, always ready.
An onlooker would have judged Belkram more handsome than his fellow Harper, but like Itharr and the lithe Knight of Myth Drannor across the table, he wore the nondescript harness of a working ranger. They looked, Belkram was sure, like three weary hireswords at ease, not champions of good just back from saving the world from disaster and magical chaos.
The lady ranger lifted her slim shoulders and let them fall in a shrug, noticing a lock of gray hair at Belkram's temple-gray that had not been there a few days ago. "That vision was brought to me by a linking spell known to some elves and elf-friends. Flambarra linked to me when she cast it, so she could show me things of import, should it be necessary. It shows the caster in her last nine breaths before the spell is ended."
"In this case, by her death and not her choice," Ithaix murmured, taking up his tankard again. "When do we ride to avenge her?"
Sharantyr shook her head. "That was a brigand's arrow, and a quiverful to match it were found on a man who chose to defy the wrong patrol, three days ago." She took up her wine and stared through it. "We live in dark times, friends."
Silence fell in that dim back room of the Old Skull Inn, and the fire in the grate sent fingers of light and shadow dancing across their faces. A roar of laughter came faintly to their ears from the distant taproom. Belkram stirred, grinned at Sharantyr, and said, "But not all is gloom, or should be. We're the great heroes who rescued Elminster, remember?"
"That sounds perilously like a cue for an impressive entrance," an all-too-familiar voice said from beside the Harper. They all started, whirling to look at the stillclosed door of the room. A mist was coiling lazily in front
of it. As they watched, the tendrils of mist grew suddenly darker, then seemed to drop and change in a whirl of colors and flashing movement. Elminster of Shadowdale stood regarding them, a twinkle in his eye.
The three companions at the table sighed in Itharr's
case, it was almost a groanas the Old Mage shuffled unconcernedly forward. His pipe appeared out of thin air behind him with a pop and floated along in his wake as he came to the table, lowering himself with a grunt onto the bench beside Be&ram.
The taller and more ruggedly handsome of the two young Harpers looked into the mage's old, bearded face with something approaching fond amusement. "How long have you been here listening?"
Belkram's tankard rose stealthily from the table and darted toward Elminster's waiting hand as the wizard of Shadowdale said mildly, "Long enough to tell this lass here"
He gestured with a glance, and Belkram's eyes, following the wizard's gaze across the table to where Sharantyr sat with a dangerous look growing on her face, saw his tankard flying past. He made a grab for it, missed as it impudently shot straight upward, and overbalanced heavily onto the table.
Sharantyr's wine danced, and Itharr chuckled as she made her ownsuccessfulgrah for drinkables. As the lady Knight swept her goblet away from disaster, Elminster continued unconcernedly, "that Flambarra was found by Elion of Talltrees, and by the grace of Tymora lives again."
Sharantyr stared at him for a moment in astonished silence. Then tears of joy rained from her, and she erupted across the table, crushing the stolen tankard against Elminster's cheek as she embraced the Old Mage. Around her tearful thanks he said gruffly, "Aghl Urgghh! IThe deed was not mine, lass, but if ye're bent on thanking me, well, my mouth is over here, and"
Obedient lips found his enthusiastically, and his words trailed away in a confusion of frantic murmurs. One of the Old Mage's hands waved vainly above the lady
ranger's smooth shoulders, gesturing frantically but not too frantically.
ltharr took in the sight with one bright eye. Turning deliberately to his Harper colleague, he remarked casually, 'All in Faertin is not dark these days, indeed. Why, I could not help but notice, as we came here to partake of this excellent beer tonight, that the price of potatoes has fallen a full two coppers the wagonload, heralding a goodly harvest without doubt."
Belkram nodded his head and replied heartily, "This is true, good ltharr, and yet surpassed by even more heartening news! Our internal ablutions cannot help but be aided by a similar drop in the price of ale, a drop that by the all-surpassing favor of the gods bids fair to coincide with a rise in the quality of the brew. Richer, nuttier, and more warming in the chest, by my halidom, and"
"You can belt up now," Sharantyr told them both in dry tones. "I had to release him, to draw breath."
"And yet," Elminster put in merrily, in perfect mimicry of Itharr's conversational tone, "I find the surpassing memory of her kiss is a fiery balm upon the hithertocooling flames of my old heart! I could not help but notice, moreover, that her tears taste like the finest salt wine of Tashluta, and her eyes are like two dark and welcoming stars in th"
Sharantyr plucked the gently smoking pipe deftly from where it floated in the air by the Old Mage's shoulder and thrust it into his mouth. "Glup," he added intelligently, ere smoke began to leak from his ears and nose.
The two young Harpers shouted their laughter at Elnainster's slightly disbelieving expression. . . and then at the dangerous calm with which he spat the pipe out, watched it scud away trailing smoke across the room, and turned to regard Sharantyr.
The Lady of Shadowdale shrank back a little and brushed her long hair out of her face with one impatient hand as if preparing for battle, but met Elminster's gaze with a bold, silent calmness of her own.
Elminster's eyes blazed at her for a long, tense moment. Then the Old Mage turned his head and said
lightly, as if nothing had occurred, "I observed the newborn pricing of potatoes too, and wondered in passing if it meant other goodly harvests, and a general time of plenty across the Dragonreach!"
Belkrarn said in a voice as dry as the bottom of the empty tankard he had retrieved, "if magic everywhere continues to fail and go wild, farmers'll certainly have less interference in taking their crops in, and we'll see fewer armies on the march to devour it all."
ltharr sighed. "You would have to drag things back to that."
Belkram spread his hands. "And is this chaos of magic not the true driving force of the times? And do we not share a victory, born of this very matter? A victory that bears celebration?"
"Ill ring for more beer," Itharr replied, pulling on the stout cord that hung by the wall near his corner seat.
"The simple solution to ill tidings," Elminster informed the ceiling. "Have more to drink."
Belkram shrugged. "With thirsty wizards at the table, I'm in little danger of getting more to drink, wouldn't you agree?"
Elminster's reply was a snort that seemed as eloquent as several speeches. They were still chuckling when there was a rap on the door. "Ale," came the voice of a server from outside.
"Ride in!" Itharr called in reply as Sharantyr took another sip of her wine and Belkram made an innocent grab for the floating pipe.
The door swung wide, and they had a momentary glimpse of a young boy's face, set in concentration over a tray laden with tankards, before he hurled tray and all at them.
Blue-white fire roared out of the heart of the tumbling pitchers and steins, thrusting into the face of the Old Mage like a bright, unstoppable lance.
Blue radiance flashed around the calm wizard, and the roaring shaft of devouring fire rebounded from him, snarling back at its source while the surprised and shouting Harpers and lady ranger were still hurling
themselves back from the table and snatching at their sword hilts.
One tardy tankard melted away in the path of the fiery bolt and was hurled aside in the form of hissing droplets of molten metal. Beyond them there was a thin scream as the white light found its source and winked out.
Sharantyr and the Harpers were leaping forward by then, blades drawn, as the staggering, hunched thing that had been a serving boy a moment before sprouted long, snakelike tentacles in all directions. Coiling like a forest of serpents, the tentacles lengthened with terrifying speed, growing sharp edges and points like blades. Without pause they slashed and stabbed at the charging Harpers, slithering and looping around them.
Amid this sudden chaos, Elminster calmly pulled the bell rope for beer again, even as a single tentacle leapt past the shoulders of his three embattled companions, growing to an impossible stretch over the entire length of the table as it raced toward him. Its skin seemed to split and shrivel away as it came, revealing a needlelike, flashing sword. Elminster calmly murmured an incantation as the slim steel stabbed at him.
As he completed the spell, the Old Mage heard the tentacled creature grunt in pain as someone's blade struck home. Sharantyr gasped as a tentacle tightened around her, and then the sword that sought Elminster's life passed through his aru as if it were made of smoke and plunged deep into him!
He felt nothing as the blade plunged, probed, slashed, and was driven home again, cleaving the air freely as if he weren't standing there. El looked at his three friends, hacking at growing forests of tentacles around them, saw Belkrain look back apprehensively, and snapped, "Drive your blades deep, all of you!"
An instant later his spell took effect. Blue lightning crackled from Itharr's blade to Sharantyr's, then from hers to Belkram's steel as the three swords quivered amid rubbery, shapeshifting flesh and hot, rushing blood. The creature they fought shuddered as smoke rose from it. Then it collapsed suddenly away from around their
blades like the contents of a fresh-broken egg, flowing to the floor in an untidy heap.
"You're protected by an ironguard spell?" Belkram asked Elminster, watching the released sword pass down through the wizard's body to clang and bounce on the floor.
"Always," Elminster said, his eyes fixed on a disturbance in the air that had just sent his floating pipe tumbling aside.
As his hands came up to hurl blasting magic, the disturbance whirled and spunand became a thin, wildeyed woman in tattered black robes, her silver hair swirling around her as if it were made of lightnings.
It was the Simbul, Witch-Queen of Aglarond, who glared anxiously around the room, the red fires of an awakened slaying spell running up and down her arus, seeking the danger that had menaced her beloved.
Itharr tried not to shiver at the sight of her. Her gaze froze him on its way to where the Old Mage stood staring down at one smoking, shriveling tentacle as it shrank away from him in death.
"The Malaugrym?" she said in an awful whisper of fury and promised doom.
Elminster stroked his beard thoughtfully and nodded. "Again," he said as the door behind her swung wide. There was a startled gasp, and another platter of tankards crashed to the floor.
The sorceress whirled around, red fire blazing around one raised hand, in time to see a serving wench, face white in terror, moan and faint dead away, crumpling to the floor atop her spilled burden.
Behind the Simbul, the Old Mage's head came up, face brightening into a smile of welcome. "Will you take ale, love? It's richer, nuttier, and more warming in the chest, by my halidom, as a man I trust said not long ago!"
At the look on the Witch-Queen's face, Sharantyr burst into helpless laughter, followed by Belkram. It was a perilously long moment before the Simbul's dark gaze flickered. Then she too began to laugh, a low, raw, throaty chuckle that made both Belkram and Itharr
think of leaping flames and hungry caresses and wilder things.
"Why is it," Elminster asked his pipe as it hung obediently nearby, fragrant wisps of smoke still rising from it, "that folk always seem to feel the need to laugh at my converse?" Fresh gales of mirth rocked the ruined room around him at his words The Old Mage looked around at his friends sourly and then readdressed himself to his pipe. "Is it my looks, d'ye think? My sensually musical voice, perhaps?'
Wisely, the pipe chose not to answer.

Chapter 2
This Wizard Must be Destroyed
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 14
The oval of light flickered and faded. As the dark and ever-hungry shadows crept and slithered back to reclaim the heart of the Great Hall of the Throne, those who'd watched death and laughter in the back room of an inn turned away from the darkening scrying portal. Some were hissing in anger as they went, and some were grim and silent, as their natures governed them.
"Poor entertainment," rumbled one lord, gliding through the shifting shadows in the shape of a cone of many eyes. He grew several long, spiderlike legs, two of which reached out to select a glowing bottle from a forest of glass containers in the vast black marble chamber.
Other Malaugrym muttered agreement, but a single clear, cold voice said, "We did not gather for "entertainment,' Uncle."
Eyes swam swiftly around the cone to look back at the one who'd spoken so, but the cone did not turn or cease its gliding passage. "I know better than some young and loose-lipped kin, Halastra, why we're here," came the chill reply. "Guard your tongue, if you'd live to an age approaching mine."
"Another lecture? Are such words all you know how to speak?" a third voice put in. It seemed to issue from a coiling, serpentine form gliding half-seen through the mists, bound for the same destination as the cone. A low rumble of anger followed in the cone's wake as it went, expelling an empty bottle, but the lord did not accompany the rumble or the bottle with any words of reply.
Smoothly the cone began to rise through the mists, drawn up by the magic of the lift-spiral. Several halfhuman forms fllowed the cone in the ascentbipedal
figures that changed height and girth in a continuous, uneasy shifting but always seemed to have tails, clawed limbs, and spines or barbs here and there. The serpentine creaturesporting a succession of small pairs of leathery wings along its entire length but having no headjoined them, rising to where the mists hung darker and shadows seemed to drift menacingly like cruising sharks.
"Who was it who daredand died?" a voice asked in hushed tones. The ascent seemed to be bringing a certain caution, or fear, upon all.
"Does it matter? Those who die fools are best forgotten," the conical lord said sternly, but another voice said clearly, "I'halart, get of Galartyn and Chasra."
"Another of us slain by the wizard Elminster," a new voice snarled. "His doom grows heavier by one more death."
"What can be heavier than an eternity in torment?" someone else asked.
"Such a small imagination," an older voice observed. "Learn to think on such things first, and speak after"
"We're very open with judgments today, it seems," the serpentine Malaugrym observed.
"I'd remind you," still another voice said, "that light or heavy, an eternity in torment is a price this mortal wizard hasn't yet paid."
From ahead of them in the mists came a deep, rolling boom, as if a great bell had tolled. Its echoes brought an end to converse for a time as the shapeshifters ascended. Bubbles occurred here and there in the shadows around them, brightening as they rose swiftly past. Dark shapes drifted beneath them. One shape strayed too near the spiral, and a Malaugrym made an exasperated sound and lashed out with a hissed spell.
There was a bright flash of falling sparks, a brief &limning, and the half-seen bulk convulsed away into the roiling shadows. A large, hooked black claw whose cruel curves stretched as long as the cone-lord stood tall tumbled into the spiral in its wake, severed cleanly by the searing magic. Trailing a last burst of sparks, it fell past
a pair of Malaugrym in tall, gaunt human form before the power of the spiral took up the claw and it began to drift slowly around and upward. Another Malaugrym kicked the appendage aside, growing a clawed foot to do so. Driven out of the spiral, the severed claw fell from view, dwindling into the concealing mists, and was gone.
The bell tolled again, shaking the shadows, and the cloaking mists fell away in tatters. "Come," a deep voice rolled out, seeming to chase away shadows before it. "My time is not so endless that I can waste it on watching the vain parades of laggards." The last wisps parted, revealing the assembly high above the Great Hall to those drifting up the final arc of the spiral.
Sixty shapes, perhaps more, stood around the Shadow Throne, a vast, soaring spindle that pulsed its customary amethyst of magic and amber of bloodfire, and held the ruler of them allDhalgrave, head of Clan Malaugrym. Pale blue fire encircled one of his wrists as he leaned forward to watch the newcomers join the crowd around the floating throne.
In the shape he now wore, he seemed humana naked, sexless human whose feet ended in a lion's pads; whose ivory body ended in a long, delicate tail; and whose flesh swam with many small fanged mouths that opened, snapped, drooled, and chattered soundlessly. His eyes were two dark, glistening pits that seemed to see the innermost thoughts of those he watched. And kin, the greater and the lesser, looked upon him and were afraid.
Yes, Dhalgrave was dying, as all knew. Yes, the fires of fury that had seen him victorious through vicious kin strife down the ages were fading, leaving him placidly calm, almost cowardly it seemed. Yet he wore this weak human formalbeit handsome, even as the elves of Faeran were comely, slender and fine bonedbecause doing so enabled him to control the greatest treasures of the clan. The very things that Malaug had crafted when he took the title Shadowmaster and strode from the strife of the dawn human kingdoms of Faerein to conquer the demiplane of Shadow and build this vast and ever-
changing Castle of Shadows. Or at least, the two items that had given Malaug and his ruling descendants mastery over the kin: the Shadowcrown and the Doomstars.
The first pulsed and winked on Dhalgrave's brow, darkness glimmering and sparkling in an endless, deadly chaos as it let him read the thoughts of any of the blood of Malaug he locked gazes with. More than that, it was the center of a web of spells and counterspelIs that waited to defend Dhalgrave against attack, or were set to howl through the castle at his death; and it gave him other powers whose secrets were much rumored but little known.
It was not reverence of Dhalgrave or respect for the Shadowcrown that had gathered most of the kin here today in answer to his summons. It was fear of the Doomstars.
They circled his left wrist endlessly, as they always did: four spherical stones of winking pale blue radiance, trailing motes of light as they orbited the bracer whose mighty spellssecrets lost with Malaug's deathtied them together, focusing their power into a weapon no shapeshifter could withstand.
The slightest touch of the raysa dozen or more at a timethat Dhalgrave could call forth from the Doomstars could hold a Malaugrym unmoving, a powerless captive. With an extra caress of fear, some of the assembled clan recalled memories of an earlier disastrous treason-battle that had been settled in this manner. Properly wielded, the Doomstar rays could force a shapeshifter into any form Dhalgrave chose, from worm to mushroom, and bind the victim in that form forever by stripping away the power to shapeshift.
"Hear me, blood of Malaug," their ruler said formally, his old and wise voice rolling out deep and confident.
"Speak, 0 Shadowmaster High," the ritual response came raggedly from most throats in his audience.
You know the time left to me grows short,' Dhalgrave said flatly. "Some of you have schemed to make that time even shorter. Thalart was one such schemer, though he saw the error of his designs and volunteered to serve the
Shadow Throne by destroying the mortal wizard Elminster ... a task in which, regrettably, he failed."
The throne turned slightly at Dhalgrave's bidding, as he looked about at them all. "I say 'regrettably' because his failure leaves that task undone, for one of you to accomplish. Hear this. My successor as Shadowmaster ' Supreme, head of House Malaugrym, shall be the one who accomplishes the utter and final destruction of the mortal of Faeran known as Elminster of Shadowdale, once Elminster Aumar of Athalantar, and the wearer of many other names in the years between. He is the greatest foe of this house, and I shall not go into the final shadow until I have seen him o'erthrol.vn."
He looked around again, as if waiting for someone to fill the silence he'd left them ... but no one did.
"There is a practical reason for this slaying, beyond the pride and passion of avenging the fallen of this house too many, by farhe's destroyed down the years. An archlich of Faern, one Saharel, ceased to exist in a battle not long past. Her ending leaves Elminster, as far as we know, the only being besides myself who knows bow to wield, empower, or destroy the Crown and Stars of Malaug I wear. He is, therefore, the only foe who can break our power over shadow and end the life all of us have known.
"For the younger and more arrogant among us, hear me and believe. Not only our dreams of greater power in Faeran and in the Etherimm would be swept awaybut all the lesser foes the Malaugrym have made down the ages would rise, here in the shadows and elsewhere, and rend us. You'd not then be striving with each other to decide who'd replace me, but fleeing as far and as fast as you could just to cling to lifeexistence, locked in some shape of lesser power that would begin as a disguise and might soon become a prison."
Dhalgrave rose to stand on air in front of the Shadow Throne. He grew taller, his ivory skin darkening as the 'batlike beginnings of wings stirred at his shoulders. He ,raised his left hand to show them all the fast-flashing, bright Doomstars dancing excitedly about it, and
snarled, "Elminster must die! This wizard must be destroyed!"
Several of the senior family members echoed in thunderous unison, "This wizard must be destroyed!" and the very pillars of the castle flashed with sudden light as the Doomstars tolled once more. The ripple of chaos that burst from the circling gems and rolled outward in all directions through the shadows threw many of the assembled Malaugrym to their knees and terrified many of the younger kinwho'd never felt such power beforeby clawing them, rudely and with casual ease, out of their carefully chosen shapes.
"If you would rule the house and realm of Malaug," Dhalgrave's voice boomed out over them all, augmented by the Shadowcrown until the echoes were painful in their ears, "go and slay Elrainster, and speedily. For if I pass and he yet lives, the hand that wields this Crown and these Stars may be his, and doom will come to us all! Go, and work his death!"
"Death!" they cried in chorus and rushed off into the shadows, thrust away by the power of the Crown's compulsion, growing wings and tails and claws as they went.
Dhalgrave sat, his chin on his hand, and through his Crown watched them from afar. Where the compulsion faded, the younger ones sped on, hunger and fury in their faces. But many of the older kin slowed, and shifted shapes thoughtfully, and shook their heads.
Dhalgrave smiled a cold smile but did not use the Crown to further compel or rebuke them. Deep within, he felt as they did.
Many times that he could recall, Elminster's final and utter death had been a breath away, no more; but always he'd slipped away, cloaked in trickery and distractions and luck. Mystra's Luck. The favor of the goddess who watched over him, doted on him as he grew older and more bent to her will, a crabbed shadow Of a man who served her with helpless loyalty. Always she shielded him and sent aid to snatch him back from his final doom.
Yet now her own power was failing, and her own foes were on the move. Bane for one. If only a small part of
that one's schemes were accomplished, there'd be a time when the mortal wizard would be left to stand alone and at last, at long last, Elminster's Doom could be accomplished.
It was time for the Malaugrym to earn their longawaited victory, and past time for them to win and enjoy it. Then he could rest, his essence stealing into the Shadowcrown to join the other elders there, awakening only when he desired to, with the thoughts of the Shadowmaster his to whisper in and all the accumulated memories his to sort and seize upon, until the wearer of the crown saw things his way, and did as he bid . . . as even now he did the bidding of the whispering elders who'd worn the crown before him.
From time to time, Dhalgrave wondered, as they did, just what had befallen,Malaug, the father and founder of them all. Dead, it was said, and by Elminster's hand, others held. Yet none of the elders had any memories of that death, only of a disappearance and many rumors cloaking it, like the fabled Cloak of Shadows, Malaug's lost secret, whose wearer would lead the house to true greatness.
He was looking forward to seeing that.

Shadowdale, Hythorn 14
"And you just left it there, all blood and tentacles, for Jhaele and her boys to clean up, and Shar and my two young blades to explain away?"
Storm Silverhand shook her head in disbelief, one shapely eyebrow raised, as she came around the table with a platter of fresh cheese-laced cornbread hot in her hands.
Elminster nodded as he reached for a slice. "Well, aye," he said, "but" As he'd expected, she steered the platter deftly out of his reach to offer it first to the Simbul.
The Queen of Aglarond, hair and robes as wild as always, was frowning fiercely and muttering under her
breath as she added a fourth layer of shielding spells to those she'd already woven around Storm's farm. She waved her sister away without even looking at the platter.
The lady bard sighed, rolled her eyes, and thrust the platter at Elminster. He smiled serenely, bowed with courtly politeness and, with delicate fingers, took a single slice. Storm set the platter down on the table and slid into the nearest chair to get out of the way. As she'd expected, she had sat down just in time to get clear of the flight of a pewter butter-crock and a knife, gliding in from the pantry to see to the slice he'd selected ... as well as another dozen or so slices that rose one by one from the platter as the knife approached.
Storm was surprised when the Old Mage took the next chair and sent the first buttered slice drifting over to her, and the second to hang waiting by his beloved's stillmurmuring mouth.
The Simbul finished her cloaking spells, smiled her thanks to them both, and attacked the bread with her usual voracious hunger. Storm watched her with a fond smile. Nethreen spent too much of her time rushing about the Realms as a raven or worse, eating nothing or things beat forgotten. When she did dine, she had to approach many meals with cautious suspicion, thanks to the deadly designs of Thay.
Another slice rose from Elminster's plate to near the Simbul's mouth just as she finished the first, and Storm knew from the wizard's surprised expression that Sylun was at work, unseen but sharing the kitchen with them all. Dead she might be, but the Silent Sister had gone right on helping and caring for others.
"Well?" Storm prompted Elminster gently, leaning forward with her chin on her cupped hands.
"I look upon it as a Harper training exercise," the Old Mage told her airily, waving a dripping slice of buttered bread. He didn't notice when Sylune's ghostly hands tore it away to take to the Simhul, leaving him with just a crust.
"Explaining away dead bodies?" Storm asked, amused.
"Yes, I suppose" She broke off with a snort of mirth as Elminster brought his slice down to take a bite, found he had possession of only a crust, and regarded it with deep suspicion.
'The problem with Faeran these days," he said heavily, "is that ye can't trust anything to be as it should be, or once was. Anything at all." He glared at the offending crust darkly. Storm bit down on a knuckle to keep from laughing aloud at his baffled expression.
And then he winked and dropped the pretense and the clowning together, leaning forward to fix her with a disconcertingly level gaze. "I suspect that the Malaugrym spy on us all, often, watching for any chance to seize influence in Faeran with little risk, and rushing in whenever events fall right for them."
The Simbul nodded. "I know they do," she said between bites, butter running down her chin. "Last summer, thinking to thin the ranks of the ambitious apprentice magelings of Thay, I set two slaying snake spells to seek out anyone who spied on awell, on an attractive-looking trap I set up, that concealed nothing. Both of the spells struck within a day. When I followed them up, I found two headless bodies sprawled half in one shape and half out of another. Malaugrym, without a doubt."
There were grim nods, confirming similar experiences. Elminster pushed his plate aside and continued, "The point is, they're no doubt aware of the increasing chaos of Art in Faeran, of Mystra's waning powers, of Saharel's final death, and of my own weakness. They must see this as a shining opportunityperhaps the best they'll ever see to rid themselves forever of their most annoying foe. Me,"
The Simbul wiped her chin and said firmly, "It's just as gleaming a chance for mefor usto destroy Malaugrym. If they're coming to Faeran to destroy youso long, mind, as you have the wits to stay here and not go running off to their shadow realm after every lure they set youthen they must come within my reach." She Ectrode across the room to seize the back of a chair, and Added softly "And I'll destroy them."
Her slim hands whitened around the chair, trembled slightly, and abruptly the wood shattered, leaving her holding splinters. She stared down at the ruined chair. "Sorry," she muttered, stepping back.
Storm waved the apology and the damage away with the same gesture. "Are you sure it's the wisest course, battling Malaugrym across lands beset with growing chaos and lawlessness, what with magic fading and failing you?" she asked gravely, turning to eye both archmages.
"I'm tired of their attacks," the Simbul replied, forestalling Elminster's speech with a swiftly raised hand. "One of them just might succeed, robbing me of my beloved and Shadowdalenay, all the Realmsof the best protector available. Moreover, Sister, I can't effectively fight Red Wizards if I must flee the fray often and abruptly to rush back across half Faertin to battle Malaugrym. Who'll defend Aglarond when I'm not there? And how can I finish any foe if I rend his best defenses but must turn away, perforce giving him time to flee or replace his ravished Art?"
She looked at the twisted and shattered chair, and said with sudden cold force, "Destroy them, I say. Once and for all."
"If magic fails much more," Storm answered, 'destroying them may suddenly be beyond our powers. Surviving might be a goal we find hard to grasp."
Elminster shrugged. "All magecraftif one views it clearly and admits what truly befallsis that sort of risky career. Not to dare is not to wield sorcery" -
He got up and paced thoughtfully across the smooth flagstones of the kitchen floor, only to turn when he reached a wall, sigh, and add, "And yetas always, it seemsI'm too busy to spend enough time on them right now to finish them. I know; this very thing has saved them many timestoo many timesin the past. Yet in truth they're not worth it."
El spread his hands. "The Time of Troubles has ravaged Faeran and is still doing so. I must repair this and that and the otheror what we know and love of Toril
may be swept away and lost, and the war lost because I indulged myself in riding down a few pet foes."
"Look upon slaying Malaugrym as a repair," the Simbul offered calmly, setting forth the viewpoint in debate, her own emotions in check. "Weigh what they may do in Faertin, left untrammeled, with the certainty of what they cannot do if you've stilled them forever."
Elminster frowned. "I'm too busy to get entangled in battle after battle, as they set their snares for me. And I'm far too busy to set snares of my own, using myself as a decoy to lure Malaugrym to their dooms. . . however richly deserved.'
"Then you must be free to set things right in Faeran, as before. Hidden by magic," Storm said to him, and then looked at the Simbul. 'While the Malaugrym are drawn into attacking a false Elminster and open themselves to your attacks, Sister."
Elminster and his beloved both frowned back at her. "That will work but once," they said in unison. They exchanged glances, and Nethreen went on alone.
"Once they see they're facing a clone, or a simulacrum, or an illusion, they'll be far more careful in revealing themselves again. We might slay one, or three if they strike together to do the deed, but no more. I can't see how such a scheme will work in any continuing way, without demanding so much of our time that we might as well both be Malaugzym-hunting night and day through, and letting Faeran fend for itself."
"I can see how it might be made to work," came a whisper from the empty air by her elbow. The Queen of Aglarond drew back a pace, raising a hand to unleash slaying magic, then blinked and said, "Sorry, Sister. How?"
The shadowy form of Sylun faded into view, smiling at her. "I can animate any body you create, and cast spells through it. As long as I don't have to smoke that awful pipe, I can be your Elmister.
"What's so awful about my pipe?" Elminster demanded, and was answered by three withering, silent looks. He looked around at them all, grinned weakly, and held up his hands in a gesture of surrender.
"Right, then," he agreed, 'we have the makings of our false me. We still lack someone to watch over 'me,' someone capable enough to slay the shapeshifters Sylun's spells can't account for."
"We're all still too busy," the Simbul observed wryly, looking to Storm for inspiration.
The Bard of Shadowdale frowned doubtfully. "I've no Harpers close by who are powerful enough to hold their own against such foes, or who can be spared from whatever they're holding together in Faeran right now
"Yes, ye do," Elminster said, the twinkle back in his eyes. "Two Harpers and a Knight of Myth Dre.nnor, to be precise. In Shadowdale right now, fresh from ably demonstrating that they can slay Malaugrym with speed and cool regard for the spillage of good ale!"
Storm covered her eyes. "Ah, no," she said 'weakly. "They'll be slain for sure . . ."
"Aye, they will indeed, after this night," Elminster agreed briskly, "with all the Malaugrym who must have been watching that fight, if ye just let those three go about their business unprotected. Their best defense is to be a part of this ruse, hip deep in the serious Malaugrymslaying business."
The Simbul grinned broadly. "It seems our only shining strategy, Sister," she said. Storm looked to Sylun for support, but the ghostly image floating beside her spread half-seen hands and said, "So it looks to these eyes, too."
Storm shook her head. "If they die.. ." she muttered, and then let out her breath in a deep sigh and waved her hand in dismissal. "Do it," she said heavily.
The Simbul inclined her head in understanding and brought her hands up, fingers spread. Tiny lightnings leapt between them, accompanied by a high, shrill singing sound, and she murmured, "El...?"
Elminster spoke a few soft words of his own and pointed at three flagstones well back from the table.
Abruptly, three people were standing on the flagstones: two men and a woman clad in leather armor, long swords at their hips, half-full tankards in their hands, and startled looks on their faces.
Behind them the singing sounds ceased as the Simbui raised her shields again. After a few darting glances about, the three relaxed, relieved smiles on their faces, as Storm leaned forward across the table on her elbows, and began, "We have a little task for you. . ."
Sharantyr groaned "I know these little tasks," she told the ceiling.
"So do we," Belkram and Itharr said in chorus, catching sight of Sylun's shadowy form and beginning to bow.
Sharantyr drained her tankard at one gulp and went on, cheeks reddening. "Unless I miss my guess, we'll be guarding a certain irritable old wizard against some sinister and ages-old unseen menace, with the fate of all Faerun hanging about our shoulders."
Storm hid a smile by turning her head to address her own favorite spot on the ceiling (where she'd mounted a small round painting of a unicorn she'd done when she was very young, and was irrationally proud of) and replied, 'Well, now that you mention it .. ."
3
To Battle We Go,
To Let the Bloob Flow
Daggerdale, Kythorn 15
The horses snorted, as they always did, at the chill of the mists eddying around their ankles, the mists that cloak the Dragonreach lands of Faerfin before dawn. Shoulders and neck tight in the cold, Sharantyr knew just how they felt. "I'll set coins that no gods get up this early," she muttered.
Itharr, riding next to her, chuckled and said, "I'll not het against you on that, Shan"
"Nor me," Belkram agreed from behind, the white vapor of his breath eddying around him.
Storm turned in her saddle to look at them. "What sort of Knights and Harpers is Faerun breeding these days? Why, when I was your age ..."
"I know, I know," Sharantyr interrupted her smoothly. "You went to bed at dawn after spending all night on your knees, cleaning the stables with your tongue, and enjoyed a deep and restful sleep for the time it took the stable master, roused by cock's crow, to walk the length of the stalls and empty his chamber pot over you. Then you had to run two miles to the river to bathe and draw enough water for all the horses to drink, run back with it, and get the axe to go out and chop firewood for the kitchen fires, before y-"
"When I was your age," Elminster said severely, "axes hadn't been invented yet. Nor horses. We walked everywhere to gather our firewood."
"Was it carrying armloads of all those whole, uprooted trees that got you all hunched over, graybeard?" Belkram asked merrily, steering his mount so that Storm was riding between him and the Old Mage.
Elminster swiveled a cold eye in his direction and
replied gruffly, "Nay, I got my hunch from fathering dynasties and fortifying kingdoms, a baby and a boulder at a time. Trees were no trouble to carry in those days, lad. The gods hadn't thought of them much before, y'see, and none of 'em'd grown much more than halfway to yer knee."
His reply was a chorus of sighs and groans. There was even one from Storm, as they rode onward in the last dark, misty moments before dawn. Then the lady bard tossed silvery hair out of her eyes with a lazy shake of her head, a motion so beautiful that watching it still made Itharr's mouth go dry, even the fortieth time around. She turned again to regard them all and said, "I can't ride with you much longer. Other duties call. Guard the Old Mage well, now."
Snorts and sardonic chuckles answered her. Storm stilled them with a lifted hand and reined her mount in as spear points loomed suddenly out of the mists before her. A gruff voice behind one of them said, "Hold, in Lord Mourngrym's name! Who are you, riding out before dawn?"
"Storm Silverhand," the lady bard told him calmly, "with two Harpers, the Lady Sharantyr, and"
"Nay, lass, don't tell 'em my name," Elminster said gruffly, spurring forward. "Let 'em guess."
A helmeted face peered at him out of the mists, and visibly swallowed. "Lord Elminster," he said, "you may pass, of course . .."
The row of spear points was suddenly gone, even before Elminster could snarl out any sarcastic reply, and they heard the clink and rattle of men in chain mail moving hastily aside to salute.
"My thanks, men of the guard," Storm said kindly into the mists. "Brion, isn't it?"
"Aye, lady . . ."
"I'll be back very shortly, alone," she said, and rode on, waving for them all to follow. Elminster inclined his head to her in sarcastic acquiescence and spurred past her into the mists.
"Ye bloody gods!" Storm muttered, rolling her eyes and
galloping after him, hand going to her sword out of long habit. Seeing that, the three who rode hurriedly after her reached for their blades, too. They rode on, hands on hilts but not drawing their steel, and soon heard ahead the thud of slowing hooves and Storm's soft "H000!" to her horse.
They came to an untidy halt in the mists, old wizard and all, milling around thigh to thigh in an open place where trails met. Storm pressed ahead a little way down one grassy ride until they followed her, and then reined in again. "Here I leave you. Follow this trail onward, and may you find fair fortune, all of you." She turned her mount, squeezed Sharantyr's arm for a moment as she rode past, and then was gone back into the mists.
As the thud of hooves faded away down the way they'd come, the first real gray light of dawn came stealing slowly in around them. "Whither now?" Sharantyr asked, peering at trees she could just begin to see on all sides.
"Forward, of course," Elminster said gruffly, and dug a toe into his mount's flank. It snorted its annoyance and moved off briskly down the new trail. The other three riders met each other's gazes, rolled expressive eyes, and followed.
"We appear to be heading into Daggerdale," Itharr observed carefully, as the first brightness of the coming day broke forth around them, and birds began to call and flutter.
"Perceptive, aren't ye?" the Old Mage replied without turning. His three companions, riding in his wake, sighed in unison.
"By all the lazily ruling lords," Belkram said under his breath, "it is Elminster."
*****
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 15
Shadows shifted uneasily around them, seeming to sense the tension in the Great Hall of the Throne. A Malaugrym who bristled thorny spines from every inch
of his lizardlike skin stood erect on the black marble beside the flickering scrying portal.
The portal was dim at the moment, showing only swirling gray mists somewhere in Faerfm. As always, the portal hung silent, floating immobile some way above the floor, but the Malaugrym drew away from it after a few moments. While near the endless flickering, he could not escape a prickly feeling of being watched.
He glared at the portal and then turned his back on it, feeling ridiculous.
A moment later, a tentacle brushed his shoulder and he jumped, spinning around with a wild snarl only to freeze amid the titters of his kin, standing around the hall, half-seen in the shadows.
"Don't drop your guard for a moment, not even here," said the tentacled giant mushroom who'd tapped him. Facing it, he recognized the voice. "Or rather, especially not here." Now he was sure.
"Bheloris," he said flatly, and the mushroom cap nodded. "Neleyd," it named him in reply and began to collapse, flowing swiftly into something else.
The words had been helpful, even friendly. Nevertheless, Neleyd drew away warily and grew a stabbing bonespike at the end of his tail, holding it up over his head, ready to stab if need be.
Bheloris ignored the threatening spike as he settled into the shape of a lion-headed man and stepped forward with his head cocked and a gleam in his eye. "Standing around waiting for a glimpse of the Great Elminster, are you?"
Neleyd shrugged, a small forest of spines shifting. "It seemed prudent," he said in a casual tone. Bheloris chuckled, and his tail briefly came into view, scratching the back of his neck.
"I'm glad to hear at least one of the younger blood of Malaug mention prudence," he said. "It would not be a grand day for our kin if all of you rushed into battle, falling over each other in proud haste, only to be slain by a foe anticipating just that artful tactic."
A strikingly beautiful woman glided forward through
the shadows, a goblet in her hand. As she came, barbed bone hooks grew along her forearms, and her head lengthened into a sharklike fin. "I've yet to hear anything but arrogance from the elders of the family," she observed coldly, "all of you sitting in judgment on the corning failure of us `younglings' and doing nothing yourselves."
"And I have yet to discern anything hut aggressive presumption in those younger kin like you, Huerbara, who speak against their elders and find fault with things done long ago, conveniently before such young, brightbrowed heroes were on the scene to do things properly."
"Have a care, old one," Huerbara hissed, and Neleyd noticed the beginnings of a stinging tail to match his own, behind her back. He looked quickly at the leonine head beside him but saw only contempt in its eyes. Bheloris made no shifts in shape, made no move save for the very end of his tail, which switched lazily back and forth, seeming to await something interesting ahead.
"The warning is more appropriately received than given," he said flatly, and turned away from her to face Neleyd fully once more. "In this matter of the wizard, have you any plans that you feeI moved to share, or simply discuss?" the older Malaugrym asked mildly, ignoring the furious Huerbara.
Neleyd kept a wary eye on her as he said, "Thoughts, yes, but anything approaching a plan or decision, no. I would look kindly on a chance to discuss such affairs freely with someone"he bowed--"of more experience than myself."
Huerbara, eyes blazing with mounting fury, was shifting out of human form. Her beautiful head did not change, but the shoulders beneath it were sinking down into an insectoid body with many jointed legs. She was taking the form of a giant scorpion, stinger waving inenacingly as she sidled forward.
Bheloris inclined his head and said, "I am pleased to see such wisdom and would derive still greater pleasure in being able to aideven if only in a small way, through frank conversethe aims of so refreshingly intelligent a relative. When would you like to assay such a debate?"
Neleyd eyed the scorpion tail, licked his lips once involuntarily, and replied, "Ah  . without delay, elder kin, though I feel it even more pressing to offer you a warning, an immediate warning of"
Huerbara shot Neleyd a look of pure hatred, hissing loudly, but Bheloris waved a lazily dismissive paw. "I thank you for your regard for my welfare. Would that all younglings valued the resources of their kin so highly. Yet there is no need. The peril you seek to warn me of has the passion but lacks the daring. Observe her. She knows I am older, wiser in the ways of violence, and am expecting her attack. Thinking to awe me, she delayed action for a time .. . time in which she has inevitably begun to consider the consequences, and probable outcome, of any aggressive action. So it is that she has found she dare not attack, for swallowing an insult is a far less painful thing to do than dyingslowly, and in slavery to the pain and humiliations I can easily visit upon her. However reluctantly, she knows it and thereby takes another slow, unwilling step toward the self-discipline that marks the mature Malaug-rym. Perhaps someday she'll have added enough steps along that path for her to finally acknowledge that self-control is necessary for those of our blood, and further, that she lacks it."
The elder shapeshifter spoke mildly, his words almost lost in the ever-louder hissing of the scorpion. Bheloris did not once look at Huerhara, however, but stood at ease, talking to Neleyd.
"Now, as to the matter of Elminster, any schemes you might foster are best hatched in private, lest the less prudent among us leap to the same ends and attempt unauthorized assistanceaid which inevitably will lead to the ruin of your plans and defeat for all kin involved. I speak now from rueful experience."
As the old shapeshifter continued, Neleyd saw Huerbara's fury abate. She hacked up hesitantly, tail still wavering, then hissed again deafeningly.
Bheloris continued to ignore her, and she retreated again, dwindling suddenly into a woman's torso on a serpentine body. Neleyd tried not to look at her as she shot
him once last venomous glance and glided away into the mists.
Several deep chuckles accompanied her withdrawal, and Neleyd saw her tail switch angrily before it disappeared from view.
"Shall we repair to another part of the castle?" BheIoris asked mildly. "The Great Hall lacks. . privacy."
As if his words had been a cue, the scrying portal flashed once and brightened. Malaugrym all over the vast chamber glided or strode closer to afford themselves a better look.
Within the upright oval, it was bright morning, somewhere on a narrow, seldom-used trail through a forest. Four humans were riding horses along the path. In the forefront was an old, white-bearded man whose likeness had been shown to them all.
"Elrninsterin came the snarl from a dozen throats. Several younger Malaugrym, who'd never seen the hated human mage properly before, moved right up to the portal to get a good look.
One of them gazed, smiled grimly, and moved one longtaloned hand in two intricate gestures. Then he strode past the portal, heading for a certain archway. "What are all of you waiting for?" he asked the chamber at large as he went. "Destroy him and be done with it!"
A Malaugrym who stood watching, in the shape of a darkly handsome man whose right forearm was a sword blade, turned to face the younger shapeshifter and frowned. "This we have seen before," he observed thoughtfully. "Have you given no thought to the possibility that this may be a ruse to lure us into attack? ls that truly Elminster or another, perhaps an empty husk, set up to lure us to our destruction?"
"Another craven elder?" From the shadows came a high, scornful voice that might have been Huerbara's. "Are you all cowards? How did you muster the courage to approach a human maid close enough to sire any of us?"
There was a stir around the hall, as if some listeners were stifling laughter or exclamations of approval, and others gasps or growls of outrage,
The Malaugrym with the sword arm only smiled coldly. "I've heard such words from several generations of kin before yours, rash one. Some of those who spoke thus still live. . but no longer speak so foolishly." He turned and addressed his next words to the young Malaugrym by the archway. "Are you of the same mind as she?"
The young Malaugrym stared at him defiantly for a moment and then said boldly, "I am!"
"Come, then. You attack the human mage, and watch. If you need aid,	pluck you to safety, so you at
least will live to learn this lesson and not join our fallen too swiftly to think on it all."
"Trust you, Kostil?" the young Malaugrym sneered. Kostil raised an eyebrow. "Trust, among us? Just how naive are you younglings?"
There was another stir, and at least one clear and deep chuckle from Bheloris. The young Malaugrym mage by the archway stiffened, eyes blazing, but said nothing.
Silence stretched for a breath, and then another, before Kostil added lazily, "Of course, if you're too afraid to strike at a mortal mage, I'll just have to find another of your contemporaries more willing to do so."
Almost spitting the words in his rage, the Malaug-rym at the archway snarled, "Taernil son of Oracla fears noIlling! Watch me, then, and render whatever aid you sec fit if you can find any way to aid me. I've not seen many elders wield spells that impress me."
Kostil smiled slightly and indicated the archway with a grand, leisurely gesture. Taernil gave him a wordless snarl of defiance, spun around, and charged through the archway.
Neleyd glanced quickly about the Great Hall and saw many older Malaugrym wearing smiles like the one on Kostil's face and shaking their heads. He turned away among the shifting shadowsmokes thoughtfully, seeking his own chambers and a scrying spell of his own. He must see this Elminster fight, if he or any of the blood of Malaug were ever to prevail against the wizard. As he left the open hall through an old tunnel that seldom changed its winding way, he passed two of the elders,
standing in the shapes of griffon-headed giants, quietly wagering on the outcome of Taernil's foray. The bets were on how much magic he'd manage to loose at Elminster before being destroyed. Neither granted any chance that he'd survive.
*****
Milhvar nodded. "The payment is accepted." He waved a hand behind him and the mists parted, swirling open in a softly widening whirlpool until Issaran could see the spell-stones that were going to cost him so much, winking and sparkling with their stored power. As he'd expected, they hung in a field of guardian magic. It would have been the sheerest folly to try any treachery upon the older Malaugrym who had hired him.
"I am ready," Issaran said, striving for calm, level tones. "Let it be now."
Milhvar nodded and waved his hand again. Another hole opened in the mists, revealing an empty, flickering upright oval of light. In size and radiance it seemed very like the scrying portal in the Great Hall.
Issaran strode toward the hole without hesitation. "You recall the word for return?" Milhvar asked from behind him.
"Arthithrae," Issaran replied, not turning or slowing.
"Good. May you have Malaug's own luck," Milhvar said as the younger Malaug-rym stepped through the magical gateand vanished.
White sparks chased briefly up and down the portal's radiance. They were joined by others dancing in the emptiness within the oval, lights that grew swiftly into a glowing window on a scene of four familiar humans riding along a forest trail. The lights flickered once and then settled into silent immobility, identical to the scrying portal that many of the kin were now watching in the Great Hall.
Milhvar watched the scene within the portal shift as Issaran-no doubt walking on air for stealthmoved through the trees, following the four riders. Even if the
bold youngling's Art-which Milhvar granted was stronger than most older kin expected or would readily believediscovered Milhvar's conjured eye, Issaran could not destroy it without shattering the gate and stranding himself in Faerim. Stranding him away from his spells, his kin, the protection of the castleand the Shadow Throne he so obviously sought. One side of Milhvar's mouth crooked into a mirthless, twisted smile.
He would have been less confident had he been able to see lssaran's face. At that moment, in the woods of Daggerdale on a chilly morning, it wore the same ruthlessly assured expression.
*****
Daggerdale, Kythorn 15
The sun was descending in the west when Elminster turned in his saddle. His pipe floated obediently out of his mouth. "We'll spend the night up ahead, in what's left of Irythkeep."
His companions nodded in silent acceptance and they rode on, as they had all day, through the ravaged wilderlands that had once been a proud and prosperous dale.
Rent by war for ten summers and more, Daggerdale was fast vanishing as the woodlands spread swiftly across untilled fields and deserted steads alike, reclaiming the land from the rule and hand of men who no longer lived to hold it at bay. In swampy places the trail they followed, once an important trade road, was almost gone.
Elminster, however, rode with the easy manner of a bored tour guide, never slowing to choose his way or change direction but proceeding as if strolling around his own garden, pointing out once-prominent landmarks as they went. Earlier, a gargoyle had risen heavily from the crumbling rampart of a small keep as they passed, but it had only circled once, high above them, and then descended again to the ruin, thinking better of attacking so purposeful a band.
The shadows were beginning to grow long when Elminster pointed at a pair of fingerlike stone pillars ahead. "Unless a dragon, lich, or something similarly energetic has decided to dwell there, that's our camp for the night."
"That's Irythkeep?" Itharr asked, peering through the trees. "There's not much left of it, is there?"
"A Harper needs no roof nor servants," Elminster told the sky overhead innocently, "but is happy to sleep under the stars, where the air is fresh, the living earth is closer, and the body has no chance to become pampered and weak."
Belkrarn and ltharr chuckled together. "Trust you to know that passage from the Code of the Harpers," said the taller of the two rangers, his eyes on the ruins ahead.
"Know it? Who d'ye think wrote it? Elminster replied in aggrieved tones. Behind him, Sharantyr sighed theatrically, but when the Old Mage shot her a coldly meaningful glance, he found her staring skyward with a look of innocence surpassed only by his own recent performance. Elminster snorted and spurred his mount on, ignoring the cautious, weapons-out advances of the Harpers.
In the dust raised by the old wizard's hurrying horse, Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr exchanged glances, shrugged, and urged their own mounts on toward the ruins.
Irythkeep may once have been grand, but the winds and winters of passing time had not been kind to it since a besieging orc band had battered its walls from without, and the Zhentarim mage with them had summoned and let loose a fire-spitting hydra within.
All that was left now, amid fast-growing duskwood, pine, and shadowtop saplings, was a ragged stone ring outlining the outer walls, a few overgrown outbuildings and stables still clinging here and there to their roofs, and those fingerlike remnants of towers. Birds roosted on the stony pillars, and the crows that took wing as the four riders approached cried their anger at the intrusion loudly enough to alert ears anywhere near. Belkram
cursed and then shrugged. What point stealth now? Several small furry brown shapes darted away from rocks where they'd been catching the last of the sun, and hurried off into the woods. Elminster watched them go, then rounded on ltharr.
"Well? Ye got that grand blade out and waved it about, lad. Aren't ye going to chase yonder scuttlers and do some carving to show thy manhood and deadly prowess?"
"No," Itharr replied brightly, and urged his mount ahead into the ruins. He tossed his grand blade into the air as he went, let it flash end over end up into the sunset, and then deftly caught it and sheathed it without slowing in his saddle or looking back.
Elminster's sniff was both loud and eloquent. Sharantyr hid a smile behind her own raised blade as Belkram and ltharr dismounted, tossed their reins over branches to serve as tethers for a few breaths, and jogged ahead into the shadows amid the stones.
The Old Mage watched them scramble and peer alertly about for a breath or two, then he turned in his saddle to fix Sharantyr with one clear blue eye. "Well, lass?"
Sharantyr raised an eyebrow. "As pouting maidens are wont to say," she replied, "Well, what?'"
The wizard's stare became more forbidding. "What foolishness are ye going to favor us all with?"
Sharantyr smiled broadly. "Ah. Yes. Guarding you, actually." She waggled her drawn sword so the sun glimmered on one edge and then the other.
Elminster snorted. "Unnecessary folly, indeed. Why not put that steel away before ye hurt thyself with it?"
Sharantyr shrugged, more laughter in her eyes than in her face. "When Belk and lth say the keep's safe, perhaps. We can talk about it again then . after I've told you how to cast a few spells."
"All right, all right, lass," Elminster said gruffly. "Point taken. Lash me with that pretty tongue o' thine later, eh? And put the sword away for now. Just do it."
Sharantyr gave him a puzzled frown as he vaulted from his saddle with sudden speed, sending his old dapple gray into a startled, snorting little dance. As she
leaned forward to catch at its reins, the Old Mage dodged quickly past its head, snatched at her boot, and expertly pitched her backward off her horse.
Astonished, Sharantyr joined him on the ground, hooves flashing in front of her nose as both mounts decided that the shadows and stones ahead offered quieter grazing than the company of falling humans. She clutched at her sword to keep hold of it and opened her mouth to protest, but Elminster had taken two long strides to one side, away from her.
"Well, mageling?" he bellowed, staring back along their trail with blue fire in his eyes. He raised his hands in a deliberately flippant, showy gesture, and spoke a grand word.
Rolling up and staring hard, Sharantyr had a brief glimpse of a black-robed wizard standing on air amid the trees, excitement and fear on his face as his hands flicked and flashed in intricate spellcasting. She couldn't escape the impression that his fast-speaking mouth was sliding down into shapelessness. Suddenly, eight balls of bright flame erupted out of empty air and roared toward her and Elminster, drawing apart slightly as they came.
Sharantyr stared at the flaming death she knew she could not escape, heard the two young Harpers shout in alarm from the ruined castle behind her, and swallowed.
Is this how swiftly and easily death reaches out to take us all?
4
A Slaying Moon
Daggerdale, Kytborn 15
Shararityr watched helplessly as flaming death roared down upon the Old Mage. Long ago the spell had been dubbed a 'meteor swarm,' castle-rending magic only the mightiest mages could wield. And the wizard who'd hurled it looked so young.
A Zhentarim? But all time for thinking was gone. She was going to die. Sharantyr looked at Elminster as the roar of the rolling flames grew louder around them.
The Old Mage was standing calmly, watching the racing fireballs. As Sharantyr looked at him, his eyes narrowed for a moment and he made the briefest of gestures with two fingers. Little wheels of lightning were suddenly spinning in midair, in the path of the howling swarm of fast-growing fireballs.
The lightnings blazed into sudden blinding brightness as the flames flashed through them, but sliced apart the blazing balls, drawing out their fury. The rush of stolen spell energy made the spinning lightnings moan and turn all the faster. Beyond them, eight failing, flickering tongues of flame reached for the unmoving, watching Old Mage ... and fell away into nothingness, spent.
Elminster raised another finger imperiously, and the whirling lightnings raced away from him, heading for the mage in the trees.
The young mage cast another spell with desperate speed, hissing and stammering words in clumsy haste. A brief rain of green lances appeared in the air, slicing down at Elminster's crackling pinwheels of captive fire and lightning, but were shattered and absorbed without pause. The lightnings flashed on.
The wizard shouted something desperately but hadn't time to do more before the lightnings struck him.
Elminster leaned forward to watch with mild, academic interest.
Sharantyr had time to shiver at that as she turned to watch what befell their foe.
Trees cracked in the heat, hissed out all their stored moisture, and fell, smoking, as the writhing mage spun in their midst, small snarling bolts of lightning leaping around his body and scattering bright sparks where they touched.
He howled in agony, arching his torso, limbs splayed. Sharantyr stared, fascinated, as his arms grew, darkening and broadening into batlike wings.
Elminster uttered a satisfied hum and followed it with four quick, sliding words. The struggling figure of their foe spun end over end as the lightnings faded and fell away from it. The young inage seemed frozen, half-in and half-out of bat shape, bright eyes staring at them and brighter fangs gaping, as Elminster's magic whirled the attacker's body around and around. "Aye, I like thee better in half-shape," Elminster told the creature serenely, making a plucking motion with one hand.
The bat-thing abruptly broke out of its tumbling and seemed to leap across the air between them, directly at the Old Mage.
Sharantyr swallowed and rose up into its path, face set and blade extended. The bat-thing rushed forward as she held out her bright sword firmly in both hands. With a helpless, howling whimper, it impaled itself on her steel.
Shar staggered at the impact, icy blood drenching her hands, and stared in sudden alarm as the darkness and weight faded away from around her blade, taken to some other place by magic that flickered and tore at her, leaving her with a confused impression of shadows, watching malevolence, and a cold, dark somewhere filled with strange monstrous beings.
Someone said coldly, "Now do you see, Taernil?" but the reply, if there was one, was whirled away in a rising whistling, the noise of mournful, misty shadows streaming around and past her.
Sharantyr felt the magic that had taken the bat-thing
trembling through her. She stared at her bare blade and unmarked hands for a dazed moment before a firm hand encircled her arm above the elbow and an all-too-familiar voice rasped, "Did ye or did ye not hear me to tell thee to put thy blade away, lass?"
Sharantyr shook her head to clear the whirling shadows from it and gasped, "Who .. . what was that?"
"'What' is right, Shan A Malaugrym mage, young and careless with his power." Then the voice sharpened. "A fine useful pair the two of ye are! Puffing up here just a breath or six too late, as usual."
Belkram and Itharr plunged to a halt, breathing hard, and exchanged an exasperated look. "That's .. . our job," Itharr gasped. "Rushing in . . . we're Harpers, remember?"
Elminster snorted once more. "So am I, young and brainless one," he reminded them all none too gently. "And d'ye see me running about the landscape like a scared hare, trampling the crops and looking generally ridiculous?"
"No," BeIkram replied bravely, "but I'm sure if we were a thousand years or so older than we are, we'd have seen you doing just that. . probably with a maid or two fleeing in front of you and an angry father or two in hot pursuit at your heels."
The snorts of suppressed laughter that answered this sally didn't come from Elminster, who looked dangerously around at them all but spoke not a word.
None of them saw a figure watching from atop one of the ruined towers, a crooked smile on its face. "Laugh while you can," Issaran told the four standing far below him, and faded away.
A moment later, an oak leaf spun lazily down from that height, which was odd, for there were no oak trees near.
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 15
"Issaran goes to ground, would you say?" A goatheaded Shadowmaster chuckled, looking into the scrying portal.
"At least he's wiser than this flamebrain," rumbled a giant whose head resembled a warrior's helm, rising from his shoulders without pause for a neck. He was looking down at the smoking foru of Taernil, shifting in slow pain from a puddle of black leather to something that had lizardlike legs. "By the Doomstars!" they heard him gasp. "It hurts!"
"I can send you back there, if you'd prefer," Kostil said calmly, watching the young Malaugrym shuddering at his feet.
"If any of you truly cared, you'd do something about this pain! Gods on their thrones!" Taernil spat, shifting slowly into something that had teeth to clench and eyes to glare around.
"Care, youngling?" The goat-headed Malaugrym sounded amused. "We do take care, which is why we watch and think before we rush in, trusting to a few spells that our foe learned to cast an age ago!"
"Clever, Yabrant . you're so clever, all of you," TaerniI gasped, swaying upright and seeing Huerbara watching him mutely from the shadows not far away. He redoubled his efforts to quell the trembling in his limbs and look grim, cairn, and strong.
The goat-headed Shadowmaster bowed his head sardonically. "At least you have progressed far enough to recognize cleverness, youngling. Keep at it, and perhaps in a century or so you'll have progressed far enough to be able to converse civilly with me for a moment. Add another century or so on top of that, and spending that moment with you might start to be worth my time."
"Well said, Yabrant," Kostil commented politely, taking a glass from the grasp of a paralyzed slave creature as it drifted past. He sipped delicately at the bubbling mintgreen contents, his eyes shifting to match the hue of the drink, and turned to stroll away.
"You think so?" Taernil hissed, face white with fury, almost spitting the words in his rising rage. "You agree with him?"
"Why not? He's right," KostiI said serenely, walking unhurriedly off across the marble floor.
The helm-headed giant guffawed, and the recovering Malaugrym mage stiffened, turned, and snarled, "You too, Eldargh?"
The giant sighed and rose up to the full height of his snakelike lower body. He looked down at the young mage expressionlessly for a moment before he muttered, "Mature a little, Taernil. You're overdue for it," and slithered away into the shadows.
"All is not lost, lad," Bheloris said suddenly, stepping from behind a nearby leaning pillar shrouded in spiraling shadows. "You've learned something of value to us all."
"Oh?" Taernil asked bitterly, wary of more sarcastic criticism, his eyes on the grave admiring face of Huerbara as she approached.
"The spells he used against you told us all that you faced Elminster." He inclined his head toward the scrying portal. "Yonder is no false image or impostor, but a servant of Mystra."
Taernil's eyes narrowed.
Bheloris smiled ruefully. "Don't believe me?" He swept a hand at the shadows around. "They believe. See them go to work on their spells and schemes, now they know truly who they face?" Taernil turned to look at the misty gloom where the far reaches of the Great Hall of the Throne faded away to limits unseen, and saw his kin walking away, some drawn together in excited groups, others striding briskly.
The young Malaugrym drew himself up with something like pride in his eyes. "They are, aren't they?" His eyes flashed. "I traded spells with Elminster-and lived," he said quietly.
"Well, I wouldn't preen overmuch about that," Bheloris said mildly. "I've done that myself, as have most of us who style ourselves Shadowmaster. It's one of the ways we measured ourselves, when the kin were more rash ... and more numerous." He turned to look at the scrying portal. "Why, I reca---"
The scrying portal flashed blindingly and burst into bubbling motes of light. There came a rumbling that
shook every Malaugrym there, and the floor of the Great Hallthe very castle itself-heaved, shook, and tilted slowly and ponderously to one side for a moment. Abruptly, a score or more scrying portals burst into bright being here and there around the hall as an ancient web of spells responded wildly. The awed Taernil and Huerbara clutched each other instinctively, staring around, and were shocked to see naked fear on the faces of elder Shadowmasters as the legion of serenely floating portals showed them all the bright flash of something huge and fiery slashing through the sky of distant Faerun. The shadows all around them rocked again, to the sound of many thunders, and someone screamed, "Elminster! The Doom is upon us!"
Someone else shouted, "Flee! Flee, or the House of Malaug is lost!"
"Not So!" roared a voice that echoed and re-echoed from every stone, goblet, and pillar of that vast chamber. Dhalgrave's voice shook with fury, and Malaugrym all over the hall cowered at the sound.
"This is no work of our foe, but something greater! Look, all of you, and behold: The gods of Faeran are come, descending upon their worshipers in wrath. The land is torn! Look well, for this may be our best chance to seize as much of Torii as we can!"
Even as that great voice rolled out over them, one of the scrying portals burst into sudden blue-white fire, causing the nearest Shadowmaster to leap away from it and frantically shapeshift into something winged, flapping untidily in its haste. The portal spun around, blazing, and consumed itself, even as another portal exploded into a cloud of purple . . flowers?
The Malaugrym barely had time to gape and peer at it before another meteoric descent rocked the Castle of Shadows, and its flash burst forth from every portal. Somewhere a pillar cracked, toppled, and fell with a thunderous, rolling crash. Shrieks of fear arose, and the tattered shadows were suddenly full of flying shapeshifters, adopting any form they could think of that flew and was fast.
Alone amid roiling mists, Huerbara and Taernil suddenly realized they were clinging to each other and hastily drew apart. Then they smiled at each other, tentatively, and joined hands again in a frantic dive for safety as another portal burst forth a gout of many-hued flame.
"Another god falling?" BheIoris murmured, strolling calmly through the ruins of rent portals and fallen drinkables. "Are we going to be able to trust any magic, in times ahead?"
"Ah ... not all the wits of the kin have drained away or shriveled up," Milhvar murmured from the heart of a pillar nearby. "One, at least, has seen or felt the heart of the matter this swiftly."
Had a Malaugrym passed by the pillar in all the roaring chaos, it might have seen two dark, hooded eyes staring out of the stone. No more of the watching Shadowmaster could be seen, but somehow the entire stout stone pillar seemed to be smiling. Not that it was a particularly reassuring smile.
4:	:i:
Daggerdale, Ky thorn 15
As Toril rocked around them. Elminster stood watching the rain of stars with a smile on his face. Not that it was a particularly reassuring smile.
Belkram glanced at him once, as the flash of a star coming to earth somewhere south and east of themin the Vast, perhapslit that craggy old face, and through the snow-white beard and moustaches saw that smile.
The Harper ranger shuddered, drew a deep breath, and announced to the Realms around, "Adventure . . . I know I asked for it. Thanks. Handsomely done. No moregot it?"
Sharantyr heard him and laughed rather wildly as the sky split apart above them and bright things fell in legions from a roiling rainbow sky that a moment before had been the soft purple of dusk stealing in.
"By all the gods, what'll the fanfare be?" ltharr shouted excitedly, staring up. Elminster shot him a look that had sent stronger men to their knees, but the young Harper was lost in trying to look at all the world at once.
The very air around them was alive, tingling and stirring. It felt as if all the world were awakening, rushing toward something exciting and splendid. The four friends felt exultant, on fire, and stirred as if by wild lovemaking all at once. They turned inward, looking at each other with shining eyes.
"What is all this?" Sharantyr asked the Old Mage, catching at his arm.
He swayed, almost falling, and for one terrified moment the lady ranger thought she saw him flicker and almost wink out. Then he was rounding grimly on her, as solid and as grumpy as ever.
"The Fall of the Gods," he almost whispered. "Come upon us at last. All of the gods will walk Faerun before this night is out. . . and not willingly. We must be on our guards from this moment forth. Nothing is safe, and the land may well be laid waste or changed forever with each passing hour." He bared his teeth in a smile that had no mirth in it and added, "Just so ye know what to do with thy idle moments, from this breath onward."
Shar looked at him in sudden, quickening fear, her eyes wide. "Did the . the Shadowmasters have anything to do with this?" The two Harper rangers drew in close to hear his reply, swords out and ready but with no foes to fight.
"No," Ehninster said shortly, holding up a hand to forestall further questions. Shar followed his gaze and saw that he was watching the rangers' drawn swords.
Small balefires flared and ran down the edges of those blades, and the four companions felt their hair rising to stand on end as the world lifted under them, hung for a moment, and then fell sickeningly through emptiness. As abruptly, the world returned to its normal state, seeming as it always had until moments before.
Cool breezes were stirring around them as night came down on Daggerdale, a night like any other.
They stared at each other and into the gathering gloom around them, hardly believing what had befallen and ended so suddenly. After a time, Itharr murmured, "What now, Old Mage?"
"Make camp, as we intended," Elminster said calmly, scratching the hair above one of his ears with the stem of his pipe. It was unlit and empty; Shar thought she'd seen him bring it out of a pocket only moments earlier. "Always keep an eye for the night around and blades at the ready. All the beasts of the wilderlands are liable to be up and about, stirred and upset by what just befell. First, see to the horses. They took fright, of course, and I can't hold them from bolting much longer." The Old Mage's voice changed. "Aye, that's another thing. Magic is no longer something ye can depend on. So don't set store by it. As of now, casting a spell is like starting a wildfire in dry wood; all things may be burned, not just what was intended."
"Without magic as our shield," Belkram asked very quietly, his eyes on the night around, "what's to stop these Shadowmasters from attacking in force and rolling over us?"
"Fear of me," Elminster said sweetly, clapping him on one biceps. "Now get ye to work. My old bones are looking forward to the softest cot ye can rig, this night."
Sharantyr raised a warning finger and eyebrow to forestall any jest in bad taste Belkram or Itharr might have been thinking of making, and after a silent moment they gave her identical grins and went away warily into the night, the first tongues of moonlight touching the edges of their swords.
"What will you be doing now?" Shar asked. "Should I be helping with wards or suchlike?"
"I must raise a shield and go within it, apart from ye for a time," Elminster replied. "Ye could do the heroic thing, of course, and stand guard with a drawn sword like those two heroes"-he snorted, jerking his head at where the two Harpers had gone"or just sit down at watch for intruding beasts. I won't be long; just shout if ye need me."
Sharantyr inclined her head in a slow nod and stepped back, her sword hissing out. Never taking her eyes from the Old Mage, she sank down to sit cross-legged with her back against a sloping stone block that had once been part of the keep's wall. The lady Knight laid her sword across her thighs and settled herself into calm immobility.
"No snoring now," Elminster told her, waggling a finger in admonishment and farewell. An instant later, a ring winked and the world around vanished.
Then the shield rippled, wavered, and El frowned at it, pursing his lips and letting the tiniest part of his lifeforce slip out of him into the shield, steadying it.
That essence was gone forever now, and Elminster was the lesser for it. Which would have been a fatal miscalculation for the Archmage of Shadowdalebut for Sylun, the sister whom Faerim thought dead, the loss was but a fleeting sorrow, lost amid so many more she carried already.
She shut the body's eyes for a moment, sighed, and then opened them again with a wry smile and went about what she had to do without haste or regret, for she was Sylun. First, the various depleted or partially spent rings, wristlets, and pendants that stored spells came off into a neat pile on the turf. Then she drew off one of the boots the body wore, did something to its heel, and spilled forth a fresh supply of enchanted baubles. She selected two rings immediately and slipped them on. Then she turned her attention to the other boot.
Its heel was empty and received the contents of her first pile. She put that boot back on and knelt for a moment in thought, selecting what would best serve from the small heap of fresh items.
There was so little magic here, and the lives of her companionsher friendsdepended on it. So, to a lesser but not dismissable extent, did the freedom of much of Faern. Even so, conflicts of Art prevented her from wearing and wielding all of this at once. She made a few careful selections and put the rest away again.
Booted once more, she donned the various items, settled herself, and sat in stillness for a time, awakening
things that had to be activated. Lines of force blazed through the lifeless body at her direction, linking this with that, building a web of interwoven magic as swiftly as she could. Now she could call up power after power without speech or gesture. This body didn't even need to breathe. The fire that animated it looped through the lifeless flesh, weaving tightly around enchanted items and muscles that moved limbs and gave expression to the now-slack face, and returned along a thousand channels to the stone nestled low between two ribs on the right flank. A stone from her hut, the anchor around which her spectral foru could coalesce, the only thing that allowed her to animate this false Elminster. She felt for the stone with the body's fingers. When she could not feel it from the outside, she nodded in satisfaction and got up. The longer she stayed shielded, the more danger her companions were in.
Worse, the moment this imposture was discovered, they were walking dead. Sylun sighed experimentally, nodded again in satisfaction, and set her shoulders.
"Elminster once more," she murmured, raising a hand. The shield fell away, and she was gazing across moonlit space to the anxious eyes of Sharantyr, hand on the wellworn grip of her sword.
Being Elminster, Sylun did not smile reassuringly, but merely raised a gently mocking eyebrow and said, "Enthralled by the spectacle of my manly beauty, lass?"
Shar's face melted into a grin. "All the time, Old Mage," she replied happily. "All the time."
"Hnimph. Great advantage ye take of it, I must say." Elminster strode past her to peer hawklike into the night, locating the two Harpers. Belkram was curled up asleep in his cloak, drawn sword laid ready on its spare folds by his hand. Itharr was standing watch, looking around alertly. He raised a hand in salute to Elminster, who returned it and seated himself on the most comfortable-looking rock.
"All's well?" Shar asked, shifting her legs into a more comfortable position. Moonlight flashed on her blade as she moved. El watched it glimmer down the steel as an
owl hooted somewhere not far off in the trees behind them.
"Aye. Should it not be?" Sylun made the words a testy challenge.
Shar gave her a quick smile of admiration for capturing the Old Mage's manner and said mildly, "Well, given that we've just seen the skies open and Toril wracked by forces that beggar even your mighty magic ..."
Elminster snorted. "Be not so sure. Gods seem to feel the need to impress."
Sharantyr wrinkled her lips in wry disbelief. "Indubitably," she replied in cultured, courtly tones, "and yet the earth did shake, and magic is either failing us or going wild. Forgive me if, as a mere mortal, I find myself somewhat anxious as to what the future holds. Say, tonight and the morrow."
Elminster sighed. "The world has been falling apart for a long, long time. I knowI've been watching it. What particular part of this ongoing devolution concerns thee most, just now?"
Belkram rolled over and eyed them both. "Sleep fails me, amid all this chatter. Is this another version of his 'I'm older than the earth beneath ye, and have seen a thing or three' speech?"
"It is," Sharantyr said gravely. Belkram yawned.
"Ah, 'twas well I woke, then. . . wouldn't have wanted to miss this . ."
"A little less biting sarcasm, ranger, if ye please," Elminster responded, looking around them at the night.
Tattered wisps of cloud were racing across the sky now, as if hurrying to a meeting they'd missed with all those divine falling meteors. When the clouds touched the moon, Daggerdale was bathed in a bright light of a violet hue that none of them had ever seen before. A little way distant, Itharr stared up at it in wonder, shook his head, and returned to peering into the dark trees around.
"What a sky," Shar murmured. Belkram gave her a look.
"It's all those Shadowmasters circling up there, interfering with the moonlight. Stop staring at it and get
some sleep; I'll take over watch. If we start falling asleep where we stand, we won't even give the shapeshifters a moment's entertainment in battle."
"Cheerful, isn't he?" Elminster said to Shar, and added indignantly. "And what am I, suet pudding? Why must he take over watching from ye? Are my eyes so old and wandering?"
"Wandering, yes," Sharantyr mock-growled, and added sweetly, "besides, you're the one we're watching over, because you're the bad-tempered, witless wizard in this band."
And with that, she rolled herself in Belkram's cloak and sought slumber. The ranger and the wizard watched her in silence until they heard the faint rattle that served Sharantyr as a snore. Then Belkram leaned forward and whispered, "Old Mage, what's to stop these shapeshifters scrying us from afar and simply attacking when we fall asleep?"
"The Fall of the Gods. Magic will fail the Malaug-rym as it fails us, in this e'er-growing chaos of Art."
"Aye, but without any magic of our own, how can we hope to stay alive against foes who can take any shape to elude our notice, escape us, or defeat us?"
"There is a way to make magic more reliable, if the need is strong enough," Elminster growled, and sat back as if dismissing the subject.
"How?" the ranger asked softly.
The Old Mage glared at him, but Belkram waited in unblinking patience.
Elminster made no move, but the singing of a quick cloaking spell was suddenly around them. "Spells ye cast can be steadied by feeding thine own life-energy into them, giving of thyself to make the magic as steady as it should be."
"Has a spectral one enough to spare, to so give?" Belkram asked, eyes steady.
"I shall do this when necessary, but only then," Elminster replied firmly, and let the cloaking magic fall away. The owl hooted again, and somewhere far off over the moonlit hills to the northeast a wolf howled.
They listened to the mournful sound until the wolf was done, and then Elminster stirred and spoke again. "Be more worried about attacks when relieving thyself is of paramount importance, or when you're hungry and downing weapons and wariness to eat."
"The monster who disturbs my meal," Belkram said darkly, "is liable to become my dessert."
"I shall devote myself," Elminster offered serenely, "to recalling the most superb sauces to accompany a platter of whole roast shapeshifter with apple in mouth."
"You could use the same sauce Lhaeo drenched those frogs with, a few nights back," Sharantyr murmured.
They both stared at her, but she was fast asleep, even through the sputters and chuckles of their suppressed mirth that followed.
Overhead, one last flaming star burst out of the night and flashed across the sky, heading west. It passed the waning "slaying moon" without pause or herald, and they did not see it fall.

Fallen the flames
Daggerdale, Kythorn 15
When first it came, the violet moonlight made Arashta Tharbrow look up from her bitter reverie in alarmed wonder. What now, after a night in which she'd already seen stars falling from the sky and felt Toril shake around her? A night in which the small radiance she'd conjured to see what she was doing in the dark depths of these endless woods had twisted into a ball of worms and fallen to the earth beside her. A night in which the spell she'd hurled in disbelief to scorch those worms had produced a sprayed handful of ice pebbles instead.
"The gods are against me," she whispered despairingly, sitting down on what was left of a stone wall. She'd been a fool to come here alone, to wild, ruined Daggerdale. And if she couldn't rely on her spells, she'd very soon be a dead fool.
Who knew what beasts or brigands might be lurking near, watching her now?
She pushed down cold rising fear with firm anger and stood up, her robes swishing back to cover her highbooted legs. She was a sorceress of the Zhentarim, and folk feared her. Even veteran warriors deferred to her in the streets of Zhentil Keep-and sometimes in her bed. She took what she desired and did as she wanted, within the orders given by her superiors.
Those serpents! The mocking laughter of Thundyl echoed around her head one more time, and she saw again his amused faceand those of Rhaglar and Morgil, Master of Magelings, standing at his shoulder on the night of her humiliation, wearing smiles that vied with each other in open cruelty.
Arashta ground her teeth and banished those hated visions with a furious wave of her hand. Her long, unbound
hair swirled around her head in the moonlight, and she caught at it with one hand, wondering what she must look like, wandering alone in these ruins.
She'd come hoping to slay Randal Morn and the handful of warriors loyal to him. They'd somehow eluded the best efforts of the Zhentarim to hunt them down. They slew encamped hireswords and Zhentilar troops in Daggerdale, striking here one night and there the next, slipping about like ghosts in the trees. They must have spell-cloaks to hide them from scrying, and they'd prevailed against some of the best blades the Zhentilar could whelm, leaving a trail of dead impressive even to an ambitious Zhentarim mage.
And here she was, alone, seeking to bring them down. Arashta smiled thinly. She had a wand, true. Its comforting weight, sheathed in her left boot, rubbed against her leg as she took a few steps out of the full moonlight, to make herself less easily seen by eyes in the trees nearby. The wand had little magic left in it, though, perhaps only a single strike. She also had herself', and men long without a woman might let a hard, wild beauty get closer to them than they'd suffer a peddler or pilgrim to venture.
She had to find them first, though, before a brigand arrow or a hungry heast found her. Even if she prevailed against such foes, it would not do to let a watching Randal Morn know she commanded magic that could slay so effortlessly.
The wings of her fury had brought her here so easily: a spell that, without her spellbooks, she could not regain here to take her home again. She had another magic that could change her appearance, but it was a sham seeming only, not a true change in shape. If she used it to hide herself while she slept, she'd be without it when it might be needed in battle.
Sleep. She yawned. Again. Soon she'd be too weary to stay awake. How to sleep in safety, in these wild woods?
Arashta sighed in exasperation. It had seemed so simple a mission when Thundylgods blast his arrogant smirk!had charged her with it. All she'd have to do would be to avoid swaggering into Daggerdale with forty
warriors or so, as her unsuccessful predecessors had done, and avoid being careless.
It struck her that she wasn't eluding carelessness all that well. Arashta shook her head, smiled ruefully, and took a few steps east, deeper into the dale, to where she could just see the glimmer of a small stream snaking across overgrown fields. PerhapsShe froze and then suddenly whirled around, robes flapping, to stare at the dark wall of trees. Someone, or something, was watching her. She could feel it. She raised a hand slowly, debating whether to cast her lone spell of revealing now or to save it for a more pressing moment.
In the trees, the man whose body looked like the dark trunk of a duskwood had grown tall enough to overtop most of the branches in his way. Steadying himself by grasping a nearby bough, he threw the stone in his hand high and hard, and dwindled again, sinking down as the stone was still in the air.
When it crashed down in the brush behind Arashta, making her whirl around again with a little gasp of alarm to face nothing in the night, the shapechanger had become a nine-foot-tall man with jet black skin and burning red eyes. As he stepped forward, his crooked smile changed and his features sharpened into those of a handsome man wearing spiked black armor and a superior smile.
"It would be best, Arashta Tharbrow, if you knelt to me." The soft, pleasantly menacing voice made the Zhentarim sorceress stiffen and brought her whirling around once more, hands raised to hurl deadly magic.
The figure facing her stood unmoving except for his hands, which stroked and toyed endlessly with something smooth and white . a jawIess human skull. Arashta's gaze came slowly, almost unwillingly up from the skull to meet the stranger's blazing ruby eyes, and though she feared she knew the answer, she had to gasp the question.
"Wh-who are you?" As the words came out, she was already dropping to her knees in the grass and stones.
He smiled in cold approval. 'Most mortals know me as
Bane." He left a little silence for her gasp of involuntary awe, and it came. The name seemed to echo and roll away from him when he uttered it. Something flickered across his face for a moment, but he stepped forward with a widening smile. "I've been watching you, lady sorceress, and have come to value you rather more highly than many of my mightier servants in the ranks of the Zhentarim. I have need of an agent who can serve me with true loyalty, and I believe you could be the one l'm seeking."
Arashta's face was the white of sunspun clouds, and her eyes glittered. "M-me, Lord?" she gasped.
"I can see you, in days soon to come," that soft voice continued, as the red eyes seemed to bore into her own, "as my highest servant in all Toril, a sorceress to overmatch the Witch-Queen of Aglarond, who rules more than one realm in my name and who need fear no man nor monster in this world."
A jet black eyebrow lifted. "Will you serve me with utmost loyalty, to the death?"
The sorceress stared at him for a moment, eyes huge and glistening in the moonlight, and whispered, "Lord Bane, I will."
"Speak my name seldom," came the reply, a hint of iron in the melodious voice now. "And hearken. lf you'd become my most powerful and trusted servant, prove your worth now. Set aside pursuit of this Randal Morn his fate is of no consequence, whatever certain Zhentarim believe-and slay for me instead the mage Elminster of Shadowdale and his three companions: the Lady Sharantyr of Shadowdale and two Harpers called Belkram and ltharr." The jet black giant took a step away from her and thrust the skull into his chest, where it vanished without a sound. His hand was empty when he drew it out of himself again and asked, "Will you essay this for me?"
Breathing as if she'd run a long way, Arashta licked her lips and replied, "Lord, 1 will."
He did not quite smile, but the sorceress, heart racing and excitement rising in her throat like leaping fire, knew that he was pleased. "The four you must kill are
not far from here, in a ruined keep beyond yonder hills."
She looked southeast along the line of his pointing arm, marked a stony face on one slope she'd not forget or lose sight of, and quickly looked back to the god.
"You've heard of the magic of Elminster," he said dryly. "These days, my Zhentarim seem to talk of little else." She nodded, too eager to be hesitant, and he added, "Though he is always dangerous, the Art left to Elminster is greatly weakened. Right now even Morg-il, Master of Magelings" he allowed a smile to touch his lips "could match him in battle, spell for spell." Bane waved a hand, and four life-sized figures were suddenly standing around her. Arashta almost hurled a spell at them before she was sure they were images and not the folk themselves, snatched here by the god's magic. "Look well," he said, "from all sides, if you wish. Rise and be free, Arashta. Know these foes and slay them for me, and more power than you can dream of shall be yours."
He hesitated, and then added softly, "It is not often I take a consort."
She was still reeling from that thought when he added, "I shall be watching you do this for me. Know this: It is the end that I value, not the means. Use hirelings, tricks, whatever. Glory is a foolishness others value, not me."
Sweat drenched Arashta in her excitement, and her body trembled unceasingly as she circled the four silent images as if in a dream, staring until she knew she'd never forget their looks.
Then she turned to Bane and went to her knees again. "Lord," she whispered, "I am ready."
"Good," said the dark figure looming above her. With slow ease, one sable hand drew forth a dagger whose blade did not shine but was a deep black with stars swimming in it. Bane held one flat side of it out in front of her face.
Trembling, Arashta put her lips to the dagger and found it cold. After a moment Bane took it gently away, and one cold black handhe had long, pointed black fingernails like talons, she noticed took hold of her left wrist.
He drew the dagger down her forearm gently, slicing a short line so deftly that only a few drops welled out. A finger wiped them away, and finger and dagger both vanished into that black mouth, to emerge clean again.
He handed her the dagger. It tingled in her fingers, cold and deadly, and the sorceress felt the chill force racing through her. "Always worship me thus," he commanded. "If I am not present to take the blood from you, consign it to a flame."
Arashta swallowed. "Y-yes, Lord," she managed to say. "Always." One of his hands suddenly flowed, widened, and became a mirror that showed her the face of Arashta Tharbrow strangely changed. In her reflection, at least, her eyes glowed with black-and-purple fire. She gasped, and looked up at him in wonder.
Bane gave her a wintry smile. 'The mark of my power," he said. "It will soon fade." He raised a staying hand, turned away, and strode toward the trees. "Seek not to follow me," his voice came back to her, as soft and as clear as if his lips were by her ear, "but do as I have charged, without delay. The dagger you may keep."
Arashta bowed her head. As she'd expected, when she straightened up again, he was gone.
She stared, down at the wickedly curved dagger in her hands. It was one piece of polished Obsidian, like no other she'd seen before, its edges razor sharp. Wonderingly, she brought it to her lips again, and then held it up to the moon, panting in excitement. "Elminster shall die!" she told it fiercely, her vow echoing back from the ruins around her.
And then she was up from her knees and running southeast, across the grassy hills, the dagger clutched in her hands.
Moonlight shone back from it, and a tall tree saw the flash, smiled a crooked smile, and shrank back down to man shape. The longer he walked Faeran, the more comfortable this form seemed. This must be why most elder Shadowmasters preferred it, after all.
Issaran of the Malaugrym smiled, shrugged, and twisted into the form of a giant barb-tailed bat. He took
wing north into the night, and for greater speed shaped a second set of wings to beat in alternation with the first pair, cleaving the air with a soft moan. A little shifting, a few minor glamers and a servant was his, to hurl her life away trying to work his ends.
Ruling Faeribisave for dealing with his own kin would be all,too easy. His teeth flashed in a smile as he went. A moment later, a real bat shied away from him, squeaking in terror, and his smile grew broader.
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Sythorn 15
"Issaran certainly makes it look easy," a pillar murmured, but no one was close enough to hear it. By the time the bell tolled again and other kin drew near, the scrying portal was once more showing Elminster's camp.
"Things seemed to have settled down, I see," Kostil remarked to Neleyd, as they came out of the Shaft of Many Stairs together and entered the vast Great Hall once more. "We're back to just one scrying portal."
"Why do away with the others, I wonder?" Neleyd asked, as the deep booming of the bell rolled over them again. Kostil gave him an amused look.
"After a surge of wild magic like that, youngling, every second portal could be the eyes and ears of some foeor a maw waiting to spit out whatever death they choose to send us. Or to suck in whoever passes. Then again, the places they show may not be what you'd like to look at, or think you're seeing. There were a lot of such things in this castle, before Dhalgrave came to power. In those days, folk of our blood were concerned with ruling other planes. We saw Toril simply as a place to snatch up human and elven maids for breeding . .
"I saw old Rehorgha die that way," Bheloris confirmed, coming up beside them. "A manyjaws took off his head down to the armswhen he looked too closely at a scene in a portal it was using as a lure ... a friendly quartet of nude mermaids, as I recall."
"Who? Neleyd asked, frowning. He thought he'd heard that name once before, but. . .
"Rahorgha the Brawler, we called him," Kostil said briefly, as they mounted the lift-spiral. "He was slain well before Dhalgrave came to the throne?'
Neleyd swallowed. "You remember those times?
Kostil gave him a despairing look. "Younglings," he muttered, a comment almost lost in the sound of Yabrant, Eldargh, and Bheloris chuckling in unison.
And then the orange and purple radiances flashed on their faces, and the gigantic spindle of the Shadow Throne was floating before them, a many-headed hydra the hue of shore mists seated in it. Several heads of dark, glistening eyes met Neleyd's wondering gaze, and he shivered despite himself. He didn't need to see the Shadowcrown or the Doomstars to know he was facing Dhalgrave.
Other kin were ascending swiftly to join them, more than Neleyd had ever seen gathered together before. He recognized Taernil and realized that the many-tentacled thing slithering along beside him must be Huerbara. When it glared at him, he was sure.
A tall, crimson-skinned biped covered with warts and questing tentacles of loose flesh oozed past., leaving acrid fumes in its wake. As it went, it rumbled to a lazily drifting fish with a snakelike tail that floated beside it, "There've been more assemblies these past few days than in the last few years. What's gotten up Dhalgrave's orifice now, I wonder?"
Bheloris grew a smile on his back, where Dhalgrave couldn't see it, but in front of Neleyd's face. Neleyd found his view blocked not only by Bheloris but by several increasingly bulky arrivals, and grew eyestalks to look over them. He wasn't the only kin to do so, he discovered, locking gazes with several other peering stalks bobbing above the crowd.
Then movement and noise ceased together as the Shadow Throne pulsed with a vivid amethyst radiance, and out of its heart Dhalgrave thundered, "Hear me, blood of Malaur
"Speak, 0 Shadowmaster High," came the ritual chorus, the gathered kin sounding a little resentful at the interruption of their various affairs.
Dhalgrave leaned forward, almost bellowing in his excitement. "At lastat long last!magic seems to be weakening in Faerihi, and when most spells are cast, the magic goes wild. All is in chaos. Beyond the wildness of Art, avatars of all the gods walk Faeran, sent there unwillingly and much hampered in their powers. Their magic overmatches us but is no longer absolute."
The Shadowmaster High leaned forward. -ro some of us, sorcery is a strong weapon, but to most folk of Faeran, it's their only weapon. Without it, they cannot stand against us in open strife. If we move more deftly, slaying certain rulers and taking their shapes, entire kingdoms of Thril can be ours without a battle!"
Excited murmurings were swelling. Dhalgrave quelled them with sudden thunder. "I know some of you hunger to play in Faerem. Let me remind you that it is a resource for the use of all, under the protection of the Shadow Throne. Wanton destruction will not be tolerated, except against the person and allies of the foe Elminster. Treat Faerun as our private garden, to be nurtured for later use."
The Shadowmaster High's many headsNeleyd counted a dozen, but some of them seemed to be slumping down and shifting shape, as others rose elsewhere looked around at the gathered blood of Malaug, and Dhalgrave added, "I have urged you to seize this bright chance to strike down Elminster, and further suggested that this could be our best opportunity to seize as much of Faeran as we can, but as always, ShadowmEu3ters are free to act as they see fit."
The Shadowmaster High rose from his throne and stood on empty air to look around at the assembled shapeshifters as he said forcefully, "Against our traditional freedom, Hay this sole commandment upon all: No one is to bring beings of FaerCui to the Castle of Shadows, or leave an easy route by which Faeranians can find our home by following any of the blood of Malaug, without
my prior permission. And be advised that such permission shall be forthcoming only in the case of approved breeding stock or captives who've been demonstrably rendered helpless, but who possess valuable knowledgesuch as magicyou deem worth acquiring. I want this clearly understood. The supreme penalty shall apply for transgressions if I deem it appropriateand I will deem it appropriate."
The Shadowmaster High raised his blands, and the assembled Malaugrym suddenly found themselves sinking, as the unseen floor beneath their feet dropped smoothly down into the swirling shadows toward the black marble floor of the Great Hall far below. The Shadow Throne and the floating figure of Dhalgrave were soon lost to view in the mists above them, and all the shapeshifters began speaking at once.
"He must be furious," Bheloris told no one in particular, "to dismiss us so. Word must have reached him of Olorn's plan to bring in all the 7hentarim, to pluck their spells from them."
"Hah," Kostil said, turning. "The last thing I want is several score of ambitious, ruthless little human mages scurrying about the place trying to slay us all. If such a risk is to be taken, let it be for one mage of real power, so we can learn magic of some worth."
"Such as?" Yabrant asked, snaking out a tentacle that sported a mouth and a trumpetlike ear to better converse. "A Red Wizard of Thay, I intended."
"If the risk is to be taken anyway," Neleyd blurted, "why not bring in this Elminster?"
He was astonished and embarrassed by the respect he saw in the looks that all the nearby kin gave himexcept one.
A gray, withered elder Shadowmaster in hobgoblin form thrust a belligerent face forward until his protruding lower lip almost touched Neleyd's own and snarled, "Have you seen Malator, Dhalgrave's bodyguard?" Neleyd nodded; who had not seen the battered giant Malangrym who served as the Shadow Throne's champion? He was reckoned the mightiest Shadowmaster in combat,
and often wrestled the worst of the marauding nightworms of the shadows.
"I am his older brother, Dlagim. I was always the larger and stronger of us two," the old Malaugrym continued, and smiled bitterly at Neleyd's obvious disbelief. "Aye, you can scarce believe it. Well, this is all that Elminster left of me, the last time he visited the Castle of Shadows. He just strolled in and started telling us what we must not do, and what we'd best stop on the instant and all of us within earshot must have attacked him. He slew over forty of us before he left; only three survived. Let's hear no more talk of bringing Elminster to the Castle of Shadows."
'It was but a suggestion," Kostil said smoothly.
"A foolish one!" Dlagim said heatedly, but Kostil spread his hands and half-smiled.
"Ah, but that's all the younglings among us know how to make. And if all who make plots or suggestions that seem foolish were sent away from the castle, the place would soon be empty Only you, I, and Dhalgrave himself would still be here . . sitting staring at each other in the echoing emptiness."
"Look upon it as entertainment," Yabrant offered.
The old Shadowmaster's eyes blazed in sudden anger, but he took one look at the large and capable antleradorned Shadowmaster and recalled that he had urgent business elsewhere that required immediate attention after a last snarl of, "Bah! Fools and irresponsible rascals, all of you!"
"What'll befall now?" Neleyd asked Bheloris curiously. The elder waved at the groups of talking, gesticulating Malaugrym around them and smiled. "The cautious and the bold will make war on each other with their tongues, each seeking to forevaiL In the end, most of us will go our own ways, unconvinced by whatever we've heard. Ms always thus. Dhalgrave will be sitting up there listening, mark you, and noting just who says what."
"The cautious being those who want to stay out of Faerfin until we know what's going to happen with the gods and magic and all?"
"No, youngling," Kostil corrected him, "we are Malaug's offspring, after all. The cautious are those who favor manipulation of Faerrmians, and goading or driving beasts and others to serve as our agents, so that our hand remains unseen. The bold are those who want to rush down there at once and attack everything they see, except that they all want someone else to attack Elminster."
"And the Red Wizards, and Khelben Blackstaff, and the Simbul of Aglarond, and a few others," Yabrant added with a grin.
"Precisely." The word had scarce left Kostil's mouth when angry voices shouted icily from the sneering, snarling mouths of two young and handsome Malaugrym who stood in human form, pointing and gesturing rudely at each other.
Neleyd stared from one to the other. "I've seen that one before, but never heard such words from him . . ."
"That's Olorn," Eldargh rumbled. "He fancies himself the next occupant of the Shadow Throne and is fool enough to think he can manipulate all of us into giving it freely to him."
"And his rival is Amdramnarthe wiser, I think, and smooth as oiled wine. A loner, where Olorn surrounds himself with the weakest witted among us, forming little whispering societies to make the nothings of the kin feel important."
"Olorn favors bringing human captives in, then?" Neleyd asked hesitantly, looking from one shouting shapeshifter to the other.
"Aye, but he might change his views several times before this day is done."
Neleyd looked at him in astonishment. "Why all the fury, then?"
"Those two?" Bheloris chuckled. 'They'd disagree over what their own names are, just to be on opposite sides of something. They'll slay each other one day, for sure, if someone else doesn't get one of them first."
Kostil shrugged. "If they hold to their purposes behind Olom theresee them storming off, all showy gestures?
that someone bids fair.to be Bimini:ter, and soon." Neleyd suppressed a shudder. "Have you seen many of usof the kindie?"
"Down the years?" Bheloris looked thoughtful. "Yes. A good threescore."
Kostil nodded. "More than that, before these eyes."	
Neleyd looked from one of them to the other. "So what do you think we should do with human magesr
"Destroy them," Kostil said enimly. "Once and for all."
6
Fine in the Night
Daggerdale, Hythora 15
The rabbit stew that Storm had packed for them was all gone, and the fire out. Sharantyr and Itharr were licking their fingers for the last of the butter that had dripped from their hardbread, as Belkram scrubbed the pot clean with handfuls of sand. Elminster lay on his back, unlit pipe in mouth, and stared up at the circling stars overhead.
"Nnmm," Itharr said, licking his lips and wiping his hands on the turf beside him. "So how long are the gods likely to walk in the Realms and chaps reign?"
Elminster shrugged. "Too long." He lowered one elbow to peer past it at the young ranger. "If ye want a count of days, I know not."
"And we have to wander the wilderlands until then, playing nursemah, escortsto a certain old wizard whom the shapeshifters regard as their Great Foe? Is this .. . prudent? Is this likely to end in anything else save disaster? Is"
Shar put a playful hand on Itharr's chest and shoved him flat on the ground. "Stop sniveling, you thing you!" she said affectionately.
Itharr's reply was forestalled by Elminster's sharp warning: "No foolplay, ye two. We must be ready for them, always. Now is when they're most likely to attack!"
His words came too late. The Harper had tugged, twisted, and hauled all at once, and the helplessly overbalanced Sharantyr went over him, to her own landing. In the same movement he was atop her, tickling, as children tumble at play in muddy yards.
"Itharrr Elminster roared over Sharantyes breathless giggles and sobs of protest. The ranger turned a face of injured innocence to him.
"They'd have the good taste not to attack, surely," he asked, 'when we are seriously engaged in wallowing in the heights of depravity?'
"They'll probably do exactly that," Elminster replied grimly, sitting up to give the Harper the full benefit of his forbidding glare.
"Wallowing in depravity?" Belkram asked in hurt tones, returning from the stream with the rinsed pot gleaming in his hands. "Without me?"
Elminster's snort awoke echoes from the stones around. "Truly the gods retain their curious ideas of humor," he observed, "giving me three jesters to ride around the Realms With."
Without hesitation, Belkram removed the lid and swept the upended pot deftly down over the Old Mage's head. Then he sprang backjust in time.
The pot shot up into the air, flashing end over end in the moonlight. It overtopped the stony needles of the ruined towers and fell again to earth, well clear of the flickering nimbus of light surrounding a furious old man who stood on air about four feet off the ground. "Enough!" the Old Mage roared. "Belkram, I'm astonished! Ye, of all here!"
Belkram spread unapologetic hands. "You can trust me to be loyal," he murmured, "but not predictable. Never predictable."
He'd said much the same thing to the Master of Twilight Hall almost ten years earlier, after Belkram had let a Zhent caravan crew swindle a few greedy and crooked local merchants in Elturel before attacking them. A furious Belhuar had demanded to know why. They had talked long into the night, and as dawn had come through the windows of that chamber, the stern old warrior who saw to the defense of Twilight Hall had 'clasped Belkram by the shoulder and said simply, "You'll do. You'll more than do."
Then a rare smile had split his face, and he'd added, "Mind you, madcap Harpers always seem to work better under Storm and Elminster, so I'll be sending you east for training under them, with your friend Itharr. I think
all four of you'll deserve each other."
The gods had given Belkram Hardeth a merry spirit that was apt to rise up and seize hold of his tongue and his wits in times of danger, when other men grew grim and careful. This spirit had taken him across the Realms to the seas off the Sword Coast, where sailors valued such gusto. There he had made his living with his blade but stayed nowhere long, because he spoke plainly when masters gave foolish orders that cost lesser men their lives.
Foolish orders. He remembered stumbling along a wet night street in Athkatla, too much zzar riding heavily and uneasily in his stomach, when a haughty local merchant had sneered at him for being a good-for-nothing hiresword, loyal to no lord or company.
"Whereas you," Belkram had replied, "serve only your own pursefar higher and more noble a cause."
Grins had told him that the noble's bodyguard appreciated his sarcasm, but the white-faced merchant had curtly ordered his men to slay the outlander mercenary A few anxious moments of slashing steel and swift shuffling in the street followed, and then six bodyguards lay senseless, dead, or dying as Belkram faced the now-terrified merchant alone.
The man took to his heels like a scared rabbit. Belkram had sprinted after him, catching up to say into his ear at full run, "You see? We hold the same values at heart. Each of us'd rather be a live coward than a dead hero!"
The merchant had fainted dead away, so a thoughtful Belkram had tossed him in a water butt to revive, and left the city that night.
He still believed that view made a swordsman more useful to the peace of Faerrin than any other stance. The mistake too many folk madeeven the senior Harpers at Twilight Hallwas thinking him a craven, unprincipled man. Belkram of Everlund would keep after his foes and his goals, trying one way and then another, patient and inexorable as the years passed, tirelessly probing here and then there for a chink in the armor of those who
stood against him, ever seeking a way through.
Of course, for such an approach to succeed, one must survive as the years pass. That was the task he was having trouble with. Twice now he'd been dragged back from the great darkness by the spells of priests hired by friends. On the other hand, his merry loyalty had won him those friends. -
"What's the matter?" he asked the raging mage in innocent tones, holding the lid of the pot in his hands. "Don't you like helms? Warriors at least have sense enough to wear them when they go into battle."
"No, I don't like helms," Elminster said sourly. "And wearing pots over my head pleases my fashion sense even less."
That was too much for Sharantyr and Itharr. Their full-throated laughter as they rolled apart brought them the Old Mage's undivided attention. "And just what, pray to all the gods, do ye both find so amusing?"
"The sight of a . . . potty old mage," Itharr choked out, through fresh howls of mirth.
Elminstees mouth crooked. "The lot of ye have been on the road for far too long. The gods have been touching wits around here."
"Is that a bad thing?" Belkram asked. "New plans and items must come from somewhere."
"Aye, and most of 'em could go back there with much profit," Elminster grunted. "Back to the bottoms of the tankards that spawned 'ern."
"Do you really believe that, SyOld Mage?" Sharantyr asked, her laughter subsiding.
Elminster gave her a warning look for the slip and said, "Nay, lass. But all of yethe Realms entire, it seemsexpect me to play the role of a gruff old wizard , who yearns for shining younger times. It's a cloak that suits me, I'll admit. Wearing it oft gets me my own way in things, Yses."
"Don't you get tired of always playing the pettish, sour old wit?" Rharr asked, serious in his turn.
"To look behind such masks," Belkram said quietly, "istoo oftento destroy the wearer."
" "Destroy,' now that's a nice word!" a new voice rang out from above.
Four heads jerked up. A glowing figure was standing on air above the stone needle of one of the ruined towers, hands raised and moving. It was a man none of them had seen before. . . and a second man stood in emptiness beside him. As they watched, a third and fourth appeared, without herald's trumpet or flashing disturbancejust the starry sky one moment and a man standing in it the next.
Elminster's lips were moving. As the first bright and deadly bolt of magic flashed down into the ruins, it was met by a crawling net of light that rent it, sending angry lightnings sizzling and smoking in all directions . . . except down onto the scrambling companions below.
"Find cover!" the Old Mage roared, and took out his pipe. An instant later, the pipe flashed and he vanished.
The four lightning bolts that sought his life arrived too late, slashing through the darkening spell net in a shower of sparks to meet in a crash that sent riven stones spinning in all directions and toppled a section of wall. The structure leaned southward with slow grace, then fell apart in the air, spilling loose blocks of stone over a wide area of brambles and saplings.
Sharantyr ducked behind what was left of the tower, a frantic glance telling her there were now nine or more glowing mages aloft. A moment later she saw a purple oval of moaning light diving down into the ruin. As she watched, fumbling for the magic ring on its chain under her gorget, the spell-thing swooped through a gap in the walls and came around the corner, seeking her.
Shar cursed and sprinted back around the tower, catching one hand on the stones of the wall to wheel tightly and run close along the inside of the standing stonework. Then she put her head down and ran faster than she'd ever run before.
As the purple radiance howled after her, pulsing and gaining swiftly, the lady ranger caught at another stony edge and flung herself sideways through what had once been a window. Shar landed rolling as another lightning
bolt crashed down nearby, its flash showing her Itharr's burly form in similar frantic flight. She sprang up to dodge behind a pile of rubble.
The radiance, whatever it was, tried to dart through the window, but didn't fit. The blast that followed took down most of that wall, showering the top of her rubble pile with stony fragments. Clutching her healing ring, Shar ran for the dark trees nearby as mocking laughter rang out overhead.
Balls of fire tore down into the forest to her right. Trees crashed to the ground, ablaze from top to bottom, and she heard a roar of pain. Belkram! She veered toward the blaze as fresh fire blossomed in the ruins behind her.
Then she heard screams from above, and something wet fell on her cheek. She wiped it away without slowing. Stickiness... blood! Reaching the trees, she saw another purple thing dodging among them, seeking Belkram. She flung herself flat on her back just in time.
This time, the spell blast showered her with jagged scraps of wood and hurled blazing cinders aloft. Watching them, she saw the glowing figures jerking and convulsing in a sky full of whirling blades that flashed and spun in the moonlight.
Some sort of blade barrier spell. It must be the work of Elminster!
Shar finally got her ring onto her finger and found her feet again. She was flung to her knees almost immediately as two explosions rocked some distant trees and a corner of the ruins quite dose by. Itharr appeared, diving headlong through a window with his leathers ablaze, to roll and curse on the ground nearby. Staggering to her feet, Shar ran toward him as the ground rocked again, someone snarled, "Die!" high overhead, and a sudden amber light announced the fruition of another spell. Still at a dead run, Shar glanced up.
From out of that brilliant light swooped two gargoyles. Glistening, orange, and translucent, they seemed made of glass rather than stoneand were coming for her and Itharr fast, sharp talons extended.
Shar cursed, ran into Itharrsending him sprawlingand then ran after him and rolled him hurriedly into the trees to give him some cover. Then she ducked aside with a shriek as one ice-cold talon laid open her leathers and shoulder together. As she sprinted away along the edge of the forest, Sharantyr heard the windwhistle of the gargoyle wheeling in the air and then beating its wings, closing in on her.
At what she judged to be the last possible moment, she swerved into the trees and dropped.
A splintering crash told her the gargoyle had tried to follow her, and found a tree instead. She got up hurriedly and ran back the way she'd come, as a lightning bolt cracked across the ruins and lit up the night.
The brilliant light showed her the fallen, twisted form of one glowing .. . man? It seemed to have too many legs and something that might have been a wing. A Malaugrym? Strolling past it, out into the open heart of the ruins, was an unconcerned-looking ElminErter, unlit pipe in his mouth and his hands empty
A cone of shining white radiance leapt down out of the night at him, and an angry snarl came from the trees clear across the ruins, followed by a trio of glowing lances rushing right at the Old Mage with crackling lightnings dancing back and forth from one lance tip to the other.
A many-tentacled thing scuttled on spiderlike legs out of the trees behind Elminster, and a ring of scarlet balls of fire spun down out of the sky. Sher stared at them all, mouth suddenly dry
No mannot even a thousand-year-old archmage could stand against all this. And after Old Elminster was gone, she and the Harpers would surely die too. She drew a sword she knew was useless and thanked the gods she'd be dying with friends, and in battle, and that they'd shared a laugh or two this evening before death came for them all. "lord of Battles: she breathed, watching death come for Elminster from all sides, "and Lady of the Forest, let 118 all die welland not before we must!.
And then the Old Mage's pipe flashed again. An instant later everything crashed together, blinding her. The
last thing she saw as the dazzlement overwhelmed her and the force of the blast flung her head over heels into the trees, was one of the ruined towers falling slowly, almost majestically, into the conflagration below.
* * * * *
"There's been no attempt to hide their trail, Lord," Br-ammur said, his old gray eyes grave.
"Yet only four, you say?" Like his men, the Lord of Daggerdale wore the leather armor of a forester and bore a sword covered with gum and soot to keep it from reflecting the light. And like his men, he spent his days sleeping in one of the caves they knew, and his nights out hunting Zhenta, brigands, and other predators in his ravaged realm. Randal Morn sighed. 'That means they're either confident as 911 the gods or trying to lure someone into attacking them
"Or just such fools that they don't know better." Thaern finished the sentence for him. His head archer looked as grim as Randal Morn felt.
"I don't like mysteries," the Lord of Daggerdale said shortly. "Fighting Zhents and orcs and such is bad enough. But we must know who they are and what they're about."
"Unless they're still riding through the night, Lord, it looks like they've holed up in Irythkeep," Brammur said through his gray-white moustache. "Shall we make haste, or walk wide to surround it?'
"The lure could be for us," Randal Morn mused. "We must go wide, quietly and with care. Bram"
His next words were lost forever in a sudden flash that split the night. Then there were several flashes together, and the ground rocked under them. The last of Randal Morn's men exchanged glances, lifted eyebrows, and took tighter grips on their weapons.
"On the other hand," Randal Morn said lightly, "no one's likely to hear us if we go in bellowing drinking songs, through that." Another distant crash answered him, and a dead limb broke off a tree somewhere near
and made its crashing way to the ground.
Irythkeep was outlined by amber radiance for a moment, and they heard shouting and saw glowing lights moving in the sky above its ruined towers. They watched the explosions, curling tongues of flame, and flashes of light for several awestruck breaths. Then the Lord of Daggerdale licked lips that had gone dry and said, his heart leaping with excitement within him, 'That magic could slay us as swiftly and easily as the ones it's intended for. We must still use caution."
always do, lord," Thaern said, stone faced. Randal Morn punched him playfully on the shoulder and chuckled. "Right, blades!" he said to the others around him. "Onward! Follow the ever-cautious Thaern..
* * * * *
Daggerdale, Hythorn 16
Belkram came dazedly, painfully back to Faertin, sprawled on his back over several broken branches of a scorched tree. Smoke curled up the cracked and smoldering trees around him, and something winged and taloned and made of glass was slashing clumsily at him from where it hung wedged in a tangle of leaning half-fallen trees.
Belkram gave it a sour look and rolled away until he fell off his bed of branches and found his feet amid trampled ferns. His leathern gloves were inside his breeches as always, the cuffs protruding above his belt right behind him; they were out and on in three tugs. The ranger took up a scorched sapling and hefted it once. He swung it up for greater force, and then down as hard as he could.
Glass shattered and tinkled off branches. He snarled and struck again, until not only the talons but most of the arm had been struck off. Then he strode away, seeking his friends.
They weren't hard to find. Elminster was scampering around the clearing, hurling slaying spells up into the night and dodging the same sent back his way. Shar lay
draped limply over a branch ahead, arms dangling, blood on her face.
He lifted her off the tree limb as gently as he could, flinching as a swarm of fireballs drifted through the nowblackened stones of the keep and exploded together, sending fresh tongues of flame roaring into the trees. He turned her over.
She was breathing. In his arms she coughed weakly, spat bloodshe'd bitten through her lip, Belkram saw and murmured, not opening her eyes, n'empus . have you come to take me?"
Touched, Belkram knelt amid the tangled and smashed trees and laid her on the ground. Finding her sword, he put it into her hand, kissed her forehead, and said, "It's me, SharBelkram the Bold! I'll be back for you, Lady Knight. Lie still here. . . I'll be back!"
"Belk. . . ram?" she breathed, head lolling back. The Harper glanced back at her once, sudden moisture in his eyes, as he ran out into the clearing. Something that looked like a griffon or a giant eaglebut had three long tentacles curling out from each shoulder instead of wingswas writhing around on the ground, obviously hurt. Beyond it, something like an owlbear with a snake's body was hugging Itharr and trying its best to bite his face off at the same time. Farther off still, amid the stones of the keep, several men were blinking in and out of existence, hurling spells from time to time at foes who didn't seem to be there. One of these men looked like Elminster.
Darting magic missiles and flickering, slow-drifting motes of light from some other spell were streaming around the clearing, around them all, like a swirling school of fish. Belkram shook his head as he sprinted toward Itharr.
A bolt flashed down to the ground in front of him, splitting a stone block twice his size with a crack that left his ears ringing. Belltram fell sideways, rolled, and found himself coming up face-to-face with a robed man who had long fangs, rich-looking robes, and flickering globes of radiance around both hands. The man's startled face
twisted into a sneer, and he raised one hand threateninglyso Belkram thrust his blade through that mouth. A moment later he was hanging on through a squalling, -bruising battering of blood and frantically shifting flesh. It melted away from his blade, ichor gushing out in all directions, and flowed around his legs, looking like the putty Belkram had once mixed to set glass in an AthkatIan window. Cold fear rose inside the Harper, and he stabbed down frantically with his blade, carving at the thick, unyielding, slowly tightening stuff
The mutating flesh shuddered and spasmed suddenly, then undulated away from him in snakelike coils. Belkram snarled, snatched out his belt dagger, and went after it, slashing wildly with both his weapons.
He was still slashing and hewing ribbons of the stuff away in all directions when a bright swarm of magical bolts swam down into the clearing and raced at him.
Once, Belkram had taken a dagger through the palm of his hand. The attacking bolts felt like seven such daggers in swift succession. The pain smashed the breath out of him as the force of the striking magic missiles drove him back into an untidy heap on the ground. It was like being struck in the short ribs over and over again, Belkram thought, struggling to get his breath. Through swimming eyes he saw some of those glowing mages still standing on the air above the keep. Itharr. . he'd been going to help Itharr. . . .
*****
Rage burned in Itharr Jathram all the time. Slow and buried deep, but there all the time, like coals glowing under turf for the night. Once in a whilenot often, but eventuallythat building rage rose and warmed and boiled up. and the burly, quiet Harper slew things.
He'd said as much to Storm, that first day at her farm, sitting on two stumps in the forest behind her house. "Lady," Itharr had told her softly, "you must know this. I'd not be the best citizen in a land at peace. From time to time, I find. . I must kill?
Storm had merely nodded, sober eyed, and said as gently, I can see it in you. Yet know this, Itharr. You are welcome in my house, now and to the end of your days?
And for that, Itharr would love her forever. Her face then, and her words, came back to him now as he stood struggling in a grip much stronger than his own and felt the white heat of his rage blinding him. Those jaws snapped just shy of his cheek once more, as he twisted his neck desperately aside and snarled his defiance. His armsand the weapons he thought he still held, though numbness was creeping over him, and he could no longer be surewere pinned to his sides in an ever-tighter rope of flowing flesh. These shapeshifters could kill merely by wrapping part of themselves around you and crushing!
He tried to throw himself sideways, but the Malaugrym held him, swaying like a tree in a high wind, and he knew he struggled in vain. "Tymora, aid me now," he hissed, ribs aching under the increasing pressure, and the shapeshifter laughed out loud. Eyes dark with fury, Itharr tried again to overbalance the thing and bring them both to the ground, but the Malaugrym held him upright with easy strength and tightened its grip still more.
He was fighting for breath now, a far-off and faint roaring rising in his ears. Soon it would overwhelm him, Itharr Jathram knew, and he'd go down, raging still, into the darkness that waited for everyone.
*****
The pipe winked more slowly this time. Sylun wondered if it would work once more if need be. Well, she'd best make sure she didn't need it.
The Malaugrym were learning. Instead of hurling more than enough magic at their foe and having it all go to waste when the pipe teleported Old Elminster away, they'd split upa few blade barriers had taught them the wisdom of thatand were sniping at him from here and there around the ruins now, hoping to force him to transport himself away from one attack and right into another.
It had almost worked twice now. Sylun took quick stock of the spells left in the various devices that festooned the body she'd taken to calling "Old Elminstef not a hard task, as so little was leftand decided to use invisibility.
She ducked through an arch, making sure one of the shapeshifters saw her, became invisiblethe nice thing about these rings was their speed and silenceand darted right back through the archway again. She saw the shapeshifter confidently weaving a spell that would hurl a swarm of fireballs through the archway, to burst on the other side of the wall, and grinned. Two other Malaugrym were creeping through the ruins and should arrive at the other side of the wall at just about the right time.
Now to find Shar's blade. Belkrana had laid it in her hand; he'd need her healing ring, too.
It might have to serve both Belkram and Itharr, if she could get this body where it had to go in time. Sylun was sprinting across the clearing, slipping on the dew driven out of everything around by all the fire spells, when a beam of flame swept across her path, too close to miss.
Someone could see Old Elminster. That was it, then, she thought, as the body plunged into roaring flames with hands clasped over its eyes to try to keep some sight. Old Elminster staggered and almost went down; Sylun kept the shuddering limbs going, trailing smoke, toward the trees.
Doom would be on them all soon now. She heard fresh laughter and the delighted exclamations of newcomers overhead but did not bother to look up. Of course the more craven Malaugrym would wait until the kill was certain and then come to watch.
The body's eyes were still swimming with tears. She could not see whatever it was that burst nearby on her left, flinging Old Elminster to the right like a rag doll. The body struck somethingfleshand she realized that it must be Itharr and the shapeshifter, still straining together. She snatched at the belt-the body wore, found the burning-hot dagger as the burnt leather
crumbled away and fell into ashes, and slashed at the ropy flesh she could not see, again and again, cutting at one spot, trying to make it release its hold on the trapped Harper.
Then the ground came up and struck the body's forehead. Bouncing helplessly on the turt Sylune saw a fading flash and knew that a ruthless Malaugrym mage had decided his kinsman was expendable, and struck them all with a corrosive bolt. Would this body's limbs hold together? At least she felt no pain and could drive the body to do things when injured that no living man could have managedbut was getting up and reaching that sword and ring one of them?
7
Masbrzooms a/26
Revelations
Daggerdale, Hythorn 16
"This is the great Elminster?" The Shadowmasters were laughing openly now, and quite a group was gathering in the air above the last tower. Forty or more looked down into the smoldering clearing where the blackened shell of lrythkeep more or less still stood, and watched the spindly ashen figure that had once sported robes and a beard stumbling toward the trees. Far too many of the blood of Malaug lay sprawled and lifeless or barely alive about the clearing, but no matter. The Great Foe was going to die!
And when the gods tired of playing in Faertin, there'd be no one left to stand against the might of the Malaugrym . . and at last Torii would be theirs. Gates winked in the air, and more kin arrived, swarming out across the air to stand above the clearing and look down.
"If we blast his body away from the knees up, will the feet keep walking?" one amused youngling asked, but another said, "No, no. Move what he seeks away just as he's about to grasp it, and keep moving it so it's always just ahead of him and he never gets it!"
"Don't toy with him!" an elder's voice roared out of empty air. Someone without magic, using the scrying portal's powers to speak through it. "Slay him now, or he'll win free somehow, and we'll have won nothing!"
The youngling who'd suggested blasting all but the Old Mage's feet turned to laugh at the voice, a sneer on his face. But then his form changed, his features holding a moment of shocked disbelief before they melted away into rubbery dun-purple nothingness and he fell away, tumbling helplessly toward the stones far below.
' He was followed by another, and another. By now, the
Malaugrym were looking puzzled and alarmed. "What--?" one barked intelligently.
"Mushrooms," another said, watching them smash into the ruins and shatter into pulpy looseness. "Giant mushrooms!"
"But who?"
Bewildered, angry Shadowmaster mages stared all around, seeking a foe. More of them fell away, helpless to cast spells or fly in fungoid form, to die below, while others snarled, "Some sort of spell to enforce a single shape? Blasphemous! Who would devise such a thing?" and still others warned, "Get back! Away from this place! It must be some spell of the Foe. It can't have a large range!"
More mushrooms fell, and suddenly a Shadowmaster snarled, "You! You're doing it!" and launched a rain of spell-lances at another Malaugrym standing on air not far away. A frantically conjured spell-cloak didn't form in time, and the accused one tumbled backward, transfixed by at least three lances, to spin slowly through the air, lifeless.
Mushrooms continued to fall, and one of the other Malaugrym raised his hands and pointed at the lance hurler. "No, it's your
The attack was struck aside by a shielding spell, but on all sides terrified and furious shapeshifters lashed out at each other. Spells flashed and burst all across the sky in sudden boiling fury until a great voice roared out of thin air, echoing all around them. "Cease! Hear me, blood of Malaugr
Sudden silence fell. All Malaugrym knew the voice of the Shadowmaster High. "Attend me!" the deep voice boomed on, as a few more Malaugrym melted into mushrooms and fell away.
A mighty magic boiled in the air, and the blood of Malaug were swept through the sky as leaves tumble in a gale, flung aside until they found themselves in two ragged groups of a dozen or more on either side of an open space where a lone figure floated, a young Malangrym sorceress known to some as Dralarca.
"There is the traitor!" Dhalgrave thundered. "Destroy her! She's"
Dralarca smiled and waved cheerilyand Dhalgrave's booming voice was gone in midword, cut off as if by a knife.
The Malaugrym stared at her, and one more of them dwindled into a mushroom and fell.
After a moment more of shocked silence, all of the mages standing on air spat out incantations at once, waving their arms like a forest of crawling spiders. The air seemed to shatter under the force of so many cleaving, blazing, bubbling, and roaring magics.
Blue-black and vivid purple flashes leapt from where they met, and an instant later all of the spells came flashing back at their casters in a gale of tortured air that flung Shadowmasters across the sky for miles.
When the stars could be seen again, and the last ruined tower of Irythkeep had stopped rocking, the false daylight Dhalgrave had conjured above the clearing remained. In it, the awed Shadowmasters could see the small figure of Dralarca standing calmly, waiting for them. She waved a casual hand, and the nearest Shadowmaster became a mushroom.
As the fungus fell to earth, Eldargh turned to Huerbara, whose teeth were chattering in fear as she clutched Taernil, and rumbled calmly, Is your magic good enough to hurl antimagic that far?"
She nodded once, white-faced and mute. The old giant turned to the Sbadowmaster standing on his other side. "Yabrantr
"Yes. Count us in together. And Taernil, if you have any sort of attacking spell, hurl it her way first, to mask us. Useless, mind. I'm sure it'll be coming back at us soon."
Elclargh counted them in. Three antimagic fields rolled out in the wake of a stinging cloud of red fire-mites, as ano,ther two mushrooms fell away from on high.
Other Shadowmasters had launched attacks, too. A scarlet flash, fading to pink, cut the sky before their own spells hit home, and for a moment there was a confusion
of whirling bones in the air around Dralarca as someone's spell went wild. Yabrant paled at the sight. "Magies starting to twist, here. This may be our only chance."
Then an explosion rocked them as old Halar was blown apart by his own returning spell, not far away. One of his hands tumbled past, trailing flames, and Huerbara buried her face in Taernil's chest with a little scream, shuddering uncontrollably.
A multitude of small flashes lit the air near Dralarca, and Taernil's cloud came drifting back at them, fading away before it reached the spot where they stood. At that moment a gasp of fear and hatred from many throats heralded their work. The false seeming of Dralarca was gone, and in its place stood a wild-eyed woman whose silver hair danced around her like silver flames. She wore black robes that were more tatters-than garments, and she laughed, hand on hip, and bowed to Eldargh. "Well spun, sir!"
"The Simbull It's the Queen of Aglarondr someone shouted, and the woman smiled and nodded.
Then she threw her arms up, her eyes flashed, and two rings of crimson light burst from her palms to run slowly down her arms and fade away around her torso. Something was growing there, a web of pulsing red beams of light encircling herno, encaging her!
"What's that'?" Yabrant whispered slowly. "Has someone caged herr
"No," said Eldargh in a deep, despairing voice. "Oh, no."
From that web of light they saw a beam stab out, and then another. One leapt across the sky and struck Eldargh before Yabrant or Taernil could move or speak, and a cage of red beams sprang into being around the old Shadowmaster.
Yabrant frowned and quickly wove a shearing forceblade, but when he swept it across the humming, thickening cage, there was a flash and he was hurled back, minus his sword arm.
After a moment, looking both shaken and thoughtful, he grew himself a new arm. By then the cage had begun
to shrink and darken.
'Farewell, old friend," he heard Eldargh rumble, and the giant's head turned toward him.
"You will be remembered," Yabrant hissed quickly, straining to see and meet Eldargh's eyes as the giant darkened and shrank within the dimming cage. There were other cages now, he knew, but this web of spells held one of the few kin he cared about, and he could do nothing to save Eldargh.
The cage was shrinking swiftly now, as Huerbara whimpered, draining Eldargh's life essence as it dwindled. It shrank to a thumb-sized globe of light and then winked out, leaving of Eldargh only a little drifting dust.
Yabrant turned to Taernil. "We must leave this place. Help me spin a gate!"
As they worked magic in feverish haste, they heard the Simbul's merry laugh followed by the call, "A little fire, Malaugrynir
They tried to ignore the roar and crackle of flame adorned with screamsthat followed, though Taernil stammered an incantation that almost ruined their whole effort.
And then a green flame seemed to grow in the air before them, rising swiftly into a spindle. Taernil almost leapt for it before it was fully formed. Yabrant held him back with a hastily grown and ungentle tentacle, and snarled, "Take Huerhara through before you!"
Taernil snarled back at him in wordless fear, eyes wide and staring, but did as he had been ordered. Yabrant looked back once as he followed, and saw a handful of other gates opening in the sky. One of them suddenly blossomed into an explosion that sent Shadowmaster bodies tumbling through the air as the Simbul laughed wildly.
Yabrant shivered and let the gate take him. It was not Lt time to tarry, or he-ti be just one more oi the 'Kin who would die this dayand just how many was that by 13ov/7before that human witch was finished.
"Ye gods!" Thaern gasped to his left, face paling, but Randal Morn looked quickly to his right, alerted by an unfamiliar sound. After a moment, he realized it was Brammur, on his knees and praying to all the gods he could name.
He started to chuckle and then decided that prayer might not be such a bad idea. Before he could go to his knees, however, the world exploded in thundering voices and rolling balls of fire, and he froze with the dozen men around him and stared up into the sky, at the many dancing, spell-hurling figures that stood high above the ground in a drift of daylight that should not be there.
It was a long while later when Brammur got to his feet, slapped his dazed lord's arm, and asked matter-offactly, "Use caution, did you say, mlordr
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Sythorn 16
"Soulcages," Bheloris said slowly. "I haven't seen one of those"
"Since Albarat died," the rolling voice of Dhalgrave put in from above, startling them all. Shadows shuddered and curled away into the corners of the Great Hall as they all stared at the &crying portal.
"I dare not reopen the portal," the Shadowmaster High went on, his voice raising echoes. "The witch-queen has spun an antimagic spell that someone foolishly cast at her across it. To strike at her or open a gate now would be to unleash that damaging magic here." His voice gained strength, so his next words would carry down distant passages of the Castle of Shadows. "We have a new foe, blood of Malaug!"
"I told you 'twould be a disaster," one Old Shadowmaster said to another, who shook his head and replied, "And I believed you. I expected deaths, aye, but not this!"
'This is worse than Shinunerglade," still another muttered.
Neleyd leaned close to Bheloris. "Shimmerglade?"
"A place in northern Faerfinin Impiltur or Damara or somewhere around therewhere six of our strongest elders trapped Elminster, and were all slain in spellbattle." He sighed. "Once again, it seems that a trap intended to be the death of the Foe became a trap for us. Mushrooms! No mouth or limbs to work magic, no way to fly. . . and death before anything can be done. Worse than that, she has some spell that overmatches our shapechanging, to trap us in a form of her choosing."
"Perhaps now some of these flamebrains'll think twice about sneering at human mages and strolling out to attack Elminster on any idle afternoon," said a tired voice from the back of the hall.
As his words ended, a green flame flickered in the shadows, pulsed mice, and widened into a gate. Several Shadowmasters took a step toward it, prepared for the worst, but out of the pulsing portal stumbled a Malaugrym who trailed smoke, and several others panting on his heels. Another gate was opening now, and another. An alert elder banished the first one with a hissed spell that sent shadows swirling around it in a swift spiral. Disheveled survivors poured into the hall, stalking grimly past an elder who smirked as he drawled, "Hail, conquering heroes of Malaug!"
Gates glimmered out of existence here and there, and the cursing Malaugrym who had come through them sought the comforts of their own chambers. As they hurried past, Kostil stared at the scrying portal and shook his head. "What did I say?" he offered. "Always we ignore the strengths and trickery of the folk of Faeran."
"No more," Bheloris promised softly, staring into the distance. "No longer."
Neleyd shivered at the elder's tone, but infinitely worse was the look in Yabrant's eyes as one of the last gates disgorged a weeping Huerbara, a silent Taernil, and Yabrant, who stopped by Bheloris and Kostil and said shortly, Eldargh didn't make it."
Then he strode away into the shadows, leaving them with Huerbara's tears.
* * * * *
Daggerdale, Sythorn 16
The light in the sky above faded to a soft purple glow, and the Queen of Aglarond rode it down to step lightly onto the smoldering turf in the heart of Irythkeep. She wrapped arms around the blackened form of Elminster with an exultant laugh. "Well met," she said happily, bestowing an impulsive kiss on lips that were no longer fringed by hair
My thanks, Sister. Syluna's mindtouch lasted for only a moment before the Simbul stepped back, surveyed the Old Mage critically, and frowned as she raised a hand and gestured deftly.
White hair appeared on the scorched wizard's chin and upper lip, and raced across the skin, growing with almost comical speed, until the Queen of Aglarond judged its length and appearance right. Then she did the same for the old wizard's head. "There! Yourself again!" she said with a wink.
"The others need your spells rather more than I do," Elminster said dryly, waving a hand around the clearing. "And that Malaugrym"he pointed"may still live."
The Simbul nodded, mirth suddenly gone, and hastened to where Itharr lay sprawled amid idior and many ribbons of slashed flesh. Belkram lay not far from him. The queen went to her knees amid the blood first. As the glow of her synostodweomer flared around the motionless Harper, she turned her head to watch Sharantyr rise stiffly among the trees, and said in amusement, "I notice you healed the pretty lady first."
Elminster's head shook in denial. "Nay. I never reached her. Her ring did the work."
"No matter. This one will be fine. He has a handsome face, nl grant." She pinched Itharr's cheek, watched his eyes flutter open, and rose with a merry laugh to go to Belkram.
It took longer this time, and her laughter was gone when she came back to Elminster. "Much in the way of repairs was needed yonder," she said, "but hell live-this
time. He's been raised many times, that one." She tapped her lips thoughtfully. "Perhaps he's lost all fear of death."
"He's not the only one," Sylun said dryly, through the Old Mage's lips. The Simbul turned to stare at her and then gave her a sudden smile. "My apologies. I sometimes forget. You are very good at this, you know"
Elminster gave her a sardonic little bow. She dimpled and replied with a certain unqueenly gesture, and the Old Mage waved his resignation from the lists and sat down on a stone.
"The Malaugrym now have a new Great Foe, I daresay," he observed gruffly. "Ye'd best watch thy backside." She smirked. "As attentively as you do?"
Flminster rolled his eyes and sighed. Her merry laughter was drowned out by a sudden thunder of hooves. He had half-risen in alarm before four lathered and familiar horses came into view around a blackened wall.
"Your mounts. Some people are so careless with their horses," the Simbul said with a flourish. El frowned at her.
"It's not as if we weren't rather busy . . ."
She waved his unspoken thanks away, looked around at the dazed lady Knight and the two Harpers coming slowly across the trampled turf toward the Old Mage, and said, "That was fun. Yet the Realms around await me, and there's much to be done, what with avatars and lesser idiots running around stirring up trouble. I must go." She turned eastward, took a step, and then turned back and pointed up at the fast-fading purple glow. "You need not fear attack from above for a time. Magic's all too apt to go wild up there, now"
Then she was gone, without sound or drifting spellsmoke to show she'd been there. Elminster stared absently at where she'd been for a moment, scratched one of his bony arms, and thought on what paltry magic he had left. The wisest thing to do would be to return to Shadowdale, to stock up, if that wouldn't be going into a worse trap than Irythkeep had turned out to be.
"What a battle," Sher said in a voice that was not entirely, steady.
Elminster gave her a wry smile. "Ye missed the best part, lass," he said gruffly. "It was raining mushrooms."
"Mushrooms?" The chorus was bewildered, as Belkram. and Itharr joined them, still peering critically at their: weapons and looking around in apparent disbelief.
"Malaugrym who'd unwillingly taken the shapes of mushrooms," Elminster explained. "They burst quite thoroughly when they land on a rock. Or a tree."
Belkram frowned. "Did we. .. die?"
"Nay, nearly, but the Queen of Aglarond thought ye had a pretty face . . . or no, 'twas him she considered handsome"---Itharr managed to raise an eyebrow and sketch a courtly bow at the same time"and healed ye. Sorry to disappoint thy sense of glorious tragedy."
"So what do we do now?" Sharantyr asked softly, looking around at the smoking ruins and at their still-restless horses. "You can't have much magic left."
"I was wondering if it would be best to return to the dale, or go looking for a Harper cache. There's one not too far from here."
"What?" Belkram asked innocently. "When we're having so much fun?"
His companions answered this observation with various rude sounds.
"We can't count on any more unexpected rescues, from the Simbul or anyone else," Elminster warned. "Certain Harpers have been told to watch out for us and aid 1113 if need be, but most of 'em hereabouts are fast swords and little more."
"We need a little more," Sharantyr agreed softly, and shivered suddenly. "I did not think any of us would live to see these stars again,' she added as they looked at her.
"You need not!" a voice spat, and from around the nearest tumbled wall came a woman in dark robes, running hard, her face contorted in hatred. A fey purple glow, tinged with black, blazed out of her furiours eyes, and she held high a black dagger.
"For the glory of Banedie, Cursed Oner
She flung the dagger as she came, and Sher couldn't draw her sword in time to strike it aside. It wobbleda
bad throwbut struck Elminster's cheek hilt first before spinning away into the night.
* * * * *
Behind another nearby wall, a tall black stone that stood by itself bent forward a little to peer at the fray with eyes that grew very bright. Then the stone hissed a Erbft word, and smiled a crooked smile.
* * * * *
As the dagger left it, Elminster's cheek fell slack, looking suddenly lifeless. The glow around the pipe in his breast pocket faded, and the three rangers in their burnt leathers, blades drawn to face the running woman, looked back in sudden alarm.
"A disjunction!" Belkram snarled, who had seen such things before.
"Gods spit on all!" Rharr added angrily, and strode forward to meet their attacker. Elminster backed away from them, looking horrified.
Behind the wall, the stone smiled wolfishly and grew an arm that gestured almost lazily behind him. "Perast aum izeebuldree," he said conversationally, and Brainmur, Randal Morn, Thaern, and all the men with them froze together, blades raised, in poses of cautious stealth.
"Thank you," the atone told them courteously as it melted into the shape of a man whose left arm ended in a sword blade instead of a hand. He peered at the motionless men for a moment to be sure he'd got them all, nodded in satisfaction, and dug his right hand into a pouch at his belt
From the other side of the wall came the ring of steel and a scream of rage. "Some sortof magic shields this placer a man's voice shouted.
"Aye," the man who had been a stone agreed pleasantly. "So it does." Bringing forth a handful of pebbles, he cast them in a wide fan onto the ground and muttered something else.
With terrifying speed, the stones began to grow. The dark forms rising from them had burly arms, tusked mouths, and were. . . hobgoblins!
"Come," he said simply, and jogged around the corner of the wall. Howling, the hobgoblins poured after him, jerking out brutal weapons and jostling each other to be first at the kill.
* * * * *
Spheres of vividly glowing airof all colors, from a rather glorious ruby red to a putrid greenwere drifting around them now, expanding from Elminster's person and various minor enchantments worn or carried by his three companions. The disjunction was working all too well.
The woman who'd hurled the dagger struck a pose just beyond the Harpers' blades and laughed in triumph. "When Elminster lies slain," she cried, eyes shining, 'remember that it was I, Arashta Tharbrow, who struck his magic from himfor the greater glory of Bane, whose foremost servant I am!"
"Oh?" Itharr asked curtly, as his blade cut a line of shrieking sparks from the invisible shield protecting the sorceress. "He's reduced to hiring madwomen now, is her
She howled at him like a dog in fury. "Blasphemy!' she spat when she found control enough to form words. Shaking in anger, she threw up her hands to smite the hardfaced ranger with magicand then her face changed, one of her hands flew to her mouth, and she went pale.
Her face contorted in frantic fear, and her hands flashed in the gestures Belkram knew would unleash a lightning bolt. Snarling against the pain he expected to come, he kept hacking at the unseen barrier that protected her, and suddenly realized it was giving way. In-. stead of ringing off something rock hard and unyielding, his blade was going a little way into something that rushed past it like floodwater, resisting but allowing the steel's passage.
And then he realized no lightning had come to snatch breath and life away from him.
"Look!" Itharr said. "Her eyes!"
All three of them peered past their hacking blades. The weird purple glow had faded away, and the green eyes behind it looked very young and very frightened as Sharantyr's blade broke through the fading shield at last and slid into the woman's breast with silken ease and speed.
The sorceress went down; blood bubbling from her mouth in a last, soundless scream, her mouth moving to shape words that would never be heard. The disjunction swept away the last of her shield as it had robbed her of spells, and with shield and spells went a cloaking wall of shadows, revealing to the rangers a snarling, hooting group of hobgoblins racing toward them across a few paces of open grass.
"'Ware!" Belkram shouted unnecessarily, and then battle was joined, the skirling clangor of steel on steel drowning out all coherent speech. The hobgoblins were reckless, snarling hackers of the sort skilled warriors disparagingly called "meat-choppers," but they were big and coming in fast, and there were a lot of them. If one Harper caught his blade against a hostile weapon, the slashing steel of the next foe could well be into his ribs before he could recover. Wherefore the three ducked, dodged, and dove as they never had before, swords and daggers together weaving a deadly wall of darting death that took down their hulking attackers with a stab in the eye here and a thrust through the ear or throat there, never slowing to parry and hack at chests or flanks.
Shar got a single glimpse of a tall black figure running easily at the fore when the charge began. Then the being thinned suddenly, like a wisp of smoke, and the hobgoblins thundered past and crashed into the three rangers without their dark companion.
That seemed like an eternity ago now, as she twisted and strained and set her teeth against the numbing force of the hacking blows raining down on her deflecting blade. Shar's lungs were burning with the effort of meeting those strikes, and sweat was running down her wrists and dripping from the end of her nose as she danced, leapt frantically out of reach of a roundhouse
slashwhich sank deep into the side of another hobgoblin, she noted with gleeand found herself spinning through the heart of the gathered hobgoblins.
A startled face loomed up at her, and she slashed just beneath it, opening a throat with her whistling steel as she launched herself in the other direction, hoping to day ahead of any direct pursuit. Rounding to the left, she found herself behind an unwitting foe and hamstrung him with a ruthless slash along the backs of his knees. With a grunt of surprise, the next hobgoblin turned his head from trying to gut Belkram, and Sher drove her dagger hilt deep into one staring eye.
It lodged against the bone as she overbalanced, and she brought her sword up to protect her back as she jerked her arm back and forth wildly to haul her fang free.
It came away at last, but by then hobgoblins were swinging at her from three sides. Shar flung herself down flat on her back, and as their blades crashed into each other overhead, kicked out hard against a massive hobgoblin foot and got the momentum she needed to roll away.
She rolled right into Belkram, who leapt high to allow her passage under him. Sharantyr came to her feet in time to see a snarling Itharr take a slash along his ribs as he leaned to drive his sword into the tusked mouth of his assailant. The sword continued upward, pushing the hobgoblin's helm off on the top of its head. Itharr let go of the blade at once and tore the hobgoblin's own blackbladed scimitar from its failing fingers, bringing it back immediately in a swing that took two fingers off the sword hand of the next hobgoblin.
As that one screamed, it reeled back into another, who slipped and got Belkram's blade in its throat. Shar fenced with another, gritting her teeth, until Belkram reached out and put his dagger into its armpit.
Then it was over, and they still stood, three panting, sweating, bleeding humans among a confusion of groaning, writhing, or silently sprawled goblinkin. They sought each other, wiping sweat from their eyes, and then stiffened at a cruel laugh from beyond the battle.
They whirled as one, in time to see Elminster's body topple in a fountain of dark blood as a black blade scythed through his neck. The blade was held byno it seemed to actually be one arm of a tall black figure. The Old Mage's eyes stared accusingly at them as his head dangled, long white hair firmly in the dark man's grip.
"Futile fools!" the figure sneered, and backed away from them into a whirling green light that was growing behind it.
Heartsick, Shar took three running steps and hurled her blade. But as the weapon flashed end over end, the laughing figure faded away through the gate and made the portal wink out, so her steel bounced on dark turf in the night.
She felt the tears beginning as she turned her head and saw Belkram and Itharr looking down at the headless body. Then they looked up at each other. Belkram licked dry and trembling lips twice before he managed to ask, "What do we do now?'
To Get a Heab in
This Wonte
The Castle of Shadows, Sythorn 16
The shadows swirled uneasily in the vast, gloomy Great Hall of the Throne as a shimmering occurred in their midst, a disturbance thatin light of recent eventswas swiftly surrounded by a dozen grim-faced elder Shadowmasters, hands raised to deal magical death.
The roiling shadows they eyed so narrowly parted into a green flame. The flame deepened swiftly into a manhigh spindle and then widened into a tunnel. A breath later, Issaran of the blood of Malang stepped proudly out of the spiraling emerald depths with a severed human head gripped in one fist, a staring man's head with long white hair and a longer white beard.
He waved his other hand, calling bloodfwe down from the Shadow Throne to illuminate himselfan act of insolence for any lesser kin when a Shadowmaster High ruled in the castle. Murmurs in the shadows reminded him of that, but he cared not a whit. This was his moment of glory, and everyone must see it lest the Shadowmaster forget the reward he'd promised. The amber glow drove back the darker shadows, making the center of the hall a grand and glorious place.
At the heart of the radiance, young Issaran stood tall, holding up his trophy for all to see. "Elminster of Shadowdale," he proclaimed loudly, "slain by my hand!"
"Ohr Dhalgrave asked coldly, melting suddenly out of invisibility to hang in the air just above the proud young scion of Malaug. "So how do you explain that?" One of his powerful hands lifted to indicate the pale glow of the scrying portal, behind the dwindling disturbance that a moment ago had been Issaran's gate.
Something in that acid tone made Issaran pale as he spun, to stare openmouthed at the scene in the portal. Dhalgrave obligingly made the view expand to fill a wide arc of the hall's upper air, and made the young Malaugrym's humiliation complete.
The night sky over what must be ruined Dragonspear Castle, in the Sword Coast lands, was lit as bright as day by spell-glows. There, shuffling around in the air, wearing what could only be described as a satisfied expression, Was a lone, lean figure. Elminster of Shadowdale, pipe trailing along behind him as he went, was treading empty night air as if he were walking the floor of his own kitchen.
The Old Mage was peering down into the darkness below, ignoring black arrows and hurled stones alikeas Issaran watched, some of these missiles came close to the human wizard and promptly perished in gouts of flame and from time to time hurling spells down into the night.
Dhalgrave obligingly made the portal's view drift down to where Elminster's spells were going, just in time to show the watchers in the hall a spinning wheel of lightning plunge into the depths of a great host, an army of ores clad in spired and fluted armor of ancient style Netherese? Nimbralese, from the Dawn Days of that realm? No matter. That ornate armor did nothing to stop the wheel from bursting in an explosion that sent bolts of lightning sizzling off in all directions, hurling ore bodies for hundreds of feet and searing great swathes of ashchoked air, where all solid things had been burned away in an instant, through the massed army.
More than one of the watching Shadowmasters gasped or swore, and someone in the depths of the dark hall whimpered. There were more startled oaths a moment later, when Elminster's next spell scooped a thousand or more ores skyward, whisked them some distance away to hang for a breath above another orc horde, and then dropped them all as helpless, wriggling missiles from the sky.
The portal moved again to show the small human band Elminster was protecting: an unarmed caravan
fearfully struggling to pass the castle as fast as possible. Something that looked like a hemispherical shell of flying swords whirled endlessly around this small train of merchants, carving up any arcs boldor crazedenough to try to reach them. A scarlet mist of gore marked the edges of that deadly barrier, and the massed ranks of the orcs were starting to give way before its advance. The mutterings in the Great Hall grew louder and held a distinct note of awe, and of fear.
"Could . . . that be someone else?" Issaran asked, almost whining in his desperation.
"It could be," Dhalgrave said gravely, his eyes like two hard points, "but it's not. I've checked on the whereabouta of all the powerful sorcerers of Faenln . . unlike certain overconfident younglings."
There were chuckles and smirks from around the chamber as a crestfallen Issaran looked at the head he held and said unwillingly, "So this . . . isn't Elminster at all?"
The head's eyes swiveled up to meet his and winked, its mouth pursed into a kiss.
The watching Shadowmasters drew back in a wary hush, fearful that Elminster might have worked a slaying spell on the head. But the disembodied visage merely blew Issaran three kisses and then began to melt away like wax in a hot flame, dripping down into nothingness.
Fearfully Issaran flung the thing away from him. The head faded away before it could reach the floor, with one last mocking wink and a chuckle of its own that made certain elder Shadowmasters stiffennotably the serpentman who was Yabrant, and the wyvern who was ICostil.
"Try again," Dhalgrave said, almost wearily, and waved a hand. The portal sprang back to its original size and location and the bloodfire winked out, leaving Issaran in darkness.
Slowly he walked away across the black marble floor, never seeing the Shadowmaster who stood alone on a high balcony, cloaked in deep shadows. Milhvar watched the young Malaugrym go, and there was a tight smile on his Lace as he shook his head.
Deep in an inner room of the Castle of Shadows hung a gem, a sapphire as large as a man's head. Its rich blue depths glowed with captured fire as it floated above a pool whose thick black waters had yielded many potions. A spell library of ancient Netherese make, the gem held spells of great power ready to be used by anyone who dared to touch it. All Malaugrym knew the Shadowmaster High could instruct the gem to visit death on the deliverer of any touch but his own.
There was one small way, however, in which any learned Shadowmaster could call on the power of the gem. One did so now, causing the massive stone to chime softly in its private chamber.
A questing shadow shifted through a doorway and rose up to regard the gem, which chimed again and began to spin slowly, a pulsing light awakening in its lower depths. The watching shadow thickened swiftly as others joined it, and then sharpened suddenly into the large but human face of Dhalgrave. Staring calmly at the gem that no one should have awakened, he asked, "Who is it?"
And from out of the heart of the winking gem, a voice he knew said, "Milhvar of the blood of Malaug, Shadowmaster High. There is a plan I must lay before you."
"Say on," Dhalgrave replied, his face and tone unreadable.
"There are other gems like this one in Faeran, hidden away in vaults that have survived since the fall of Netheril. Many more spells sit in grimoires and items all over Toril, and we have seldom dared to seek them out. The deaths that the Simbul caused underscore the prudence of this caution, but our younger blood grows ever more restive, and you rightly chose this opportunity of the godstrife to send them after the Great Foe. Yet I fear not just he, but all of Mystra's Chosen are our foesas the Simbul is. We stand little chance of survival unless we can find some means of warding off their seeking magic, and the spells they send to slay WI. The time is right for us to devote all of our skillstogether, not as
warring individualsinto crafting a cloak of concealing spells."
The voice paused, and then went on more strongly, 'If such a thing can he woven, we could make forays into Faerfin and seize the magic long denied to us. If the Chosen confronted us there, we could fight them as equals and betterand no harm would come to this castle around us. I have heard many kin speculating aloud as to how they'd lure Elminster here, and overwhelm him with our massed might and the power of shadows we can call on. I'd rather not see such a battle, with all its unavoidable damage, occur in our very home." Milhvar's voice fell silent.
"You have my permission and support for all you've said thus far," Dhalgrave said without hesitation, "but I sense you've more to propose. Say on."
'There is a grave danger in this proposal, a danger to one being. You.'
"I know this," Dhalgrave replied patiently. "Go on."
"Our trust in each other must soon be absolute," Milhvar said, as casually if he were discussing the weather in Faertin, "and I am prepared to submit to all of the scrying magic you case to use. When the concealing cloak of spells is shown to work against the wrath of one of the Chosen, it must also be demonstrated to all that the Shadowmaster High has the means to remove the cloak without warning, leaving the being who was using it vulnerable. I fear this demonstration will cost us one of our more ambitiousnot to say rebelliousyounglings. By this action you will reaffirm your power and quell the inevitable moves by the younger blood to go their own ways in the planes armed with cloaks of our devising.'
"Your words please me," Dhalgrave responded. "Will you submit to my probing immediately?
"Of course," the voice replied. "Bring me through."
 The Shadowmaster's head didn't appear to do anything, but the floating gem flashed brightly, and the slim man-form of Milhvar stood beside the pool in the chamber. He opened his mouth to speak, but sudden lightnings raged around him, stiffening him into immobility,
and a singing, droning sound awakened in the gem, rising in pitch and volume until it abruptly ceased.
Dhalgrave nodded. "You spoke truth to me. I confess I am surprised and pleased. Your loyalty is rare indeed. Know that I have established scrying links to you that govern your very life. Go now and do as you have proposed. If you need my authority to call your team of spellcrafters together, use it."
"My thanks, Shadowmaster High. You shall not regret this."
Dhalgrave nodded curtly, the gem flashed again, and his visitor was gone. Silence returned to that hidden chamber as the floating head frowned at the space where Milhvar had stood. There had been just a shade too much triumph in that parting smile.
* * * * *
Daggerdale, Hythorn 16
The milky mists of approaching dawn had come again to Daggerdale, and Sharantyr shivered once as she stripped away the last of her clothing and stared down at the headless body, contemplating the grisly task ahead. Belkram deftly took the well-worn cotton halter and clout she handed him, as he'd taken her leathers before.
"Don't look," she commanded both Harpers with mock severity
"Of course not," they replied with identical grins, keeping their eyes carefully on hers. Then they turned around together, walking well away around one soot-blackened wall.
Sharantyr watched them-go, took a deep breath, and reluctantly let her eyes fall to the cold form at her feet. She swallowed and then knelt beside it, taking up her newly sharpened knife. This was not going to be easy
"Be easy, sister-in-arins," nothing spoke, close by her ear. Sher nodded and smiled wanly as the voice of Syhme went on. "Place your longest finger on the ribs, on the right side. Feel them? Move up one. . . and another.
There. Take the knife and make a mark large enough to see clearly"
Shar swallowed. Then, deliberately, she did as she had been told, feeling her gorge rise alarmingly within her, a sudden hotness in her throat.
'If you spew on the body," Sylun said in dry but somehow sympathetic tones, "you'll make the job a lot more distasteful."
Shar nodded irritably, wiping sudden sweat from her brow with one swipe of her forearm. Cutting a foe in the heat and swiftness of battle was one thing, but . . .
How did chirurgeonsand butchers, for that matter do it?
"The stone is deep," Sylun said calmly, steadying her. Shaz thanked her with another smile, ran the knife point down Old Elminster's aide almost to the ground, and then drove it in.
Blood flowed, more and faster than she'd have thought, bathing her fingers in warm stickiness. Sharantyr's stomach lurched.
Involuntarily her eyes traveled to where Elrainster's head should be and was not, and a moment later she flung herself to one side and emptied her gut onto the turf; her own ribs aching as she shuddered and heaved uncontrollably.
"It'll be harder if you wait," Sylun said soothingly, but Sharantyr sung back to the bleeding body with an angry snarl, face white, and dug her blade in as if striking a blow in battle.
Her arms and breast were soon dripping, and she nearly squirted herself in the eye twice. One glimpse of her matted, dangling hair made her wish she'd tied it back before starting this, but she couldn't think of eyerything, by all the gods, and . . .
There. It slipped out easily into her fingers: a gray, unremarkable stone from Sylund's hut, the focus that allowed the undead Sister to speak, to be, this far from the place of her death. The means by which she'd been able to make this spell-crafted body move and speak and perceiveand ape Elminster so well.
The impersonation had been masterful, Shar reminded herself as she took another deep breath, her stomach a loose and floating thing, and got up grimly from her knees, the stone tightly clutched in her fist. Blood ran down her arms and dripped off her elbows as she headed for where the two Harpers stood talking. Modesty was just going to have to be abandoned for the nonce; she had to get clean!
"Goodsirs," she said tightly, "I must.
"Close your eyes and trust in us," Itharr said gently. "We won't lose the stone; just hold it out."
Sharantyr did as she was bid and felt the stone taken from her fingers, followed by a warm stinging on them and on her eyelids, face, and body as someone washed her carefully with . . . zzar!
She wrinkled her nose at the unmistakable almond scent, and someone chuckled. Before she could draw breath to speak, Bellu-am said, "Sorry, Shat 'Tis all we could think of in haste." After a moment, he offered slyly, "We could lick you clean, after."
"You could run to Zhentil Keep and back before nightfall, first," she replied briskly, and all three of them chuckled. A moment later, she relaxed gratefully into the warmth of an energetic toweling.
"You won't be the only one smelling like a tavern, though," Itharr said. Shar opened her eyes to look a question at him and saw that both men had stripped to the waisthairy beasts, the pair of themand were drying her with their undershirts. She wrinkled her nose again at the thought of smelling like an unwashed, sweaty man, then smiled at their hurt expressions and said hastily, 'You are sweet, both of you."
"I was wondering when you were going to say that," Sylune's voice said in her ear, in a faint, private whisper. Belkram proudly held out Shar's leathers for her to see the hasty but neat stitching where they'd sewn her rent shoulder panel more or less back together.
She took their work in her fingers and shook her head in delighted wonder, "How did you do this in such a short time?" She clutched the leathers to her breast and looked
from one beaming Harper to the other. "You'll make wonderful mates, you two!"
"Oh, no," Itharr said firmly, backing away.
"No, indeed," Belkram agreed, eyes wary "We're kind folk, not crazy men."
Sharantyr stared at them and then around at the gory body behind her, the soot-blackened rocks, the mushroom pulp strewn everywhere. . . and started to laugh. Not crazy Indeed.
The snorting sound from the empty air at her elbow told her Sylune shared her amusement.
Shar shook her head again, her broad smile refusing to fade, and then a gentle breeze touched her with cool fingers, reminding her that she was She looked down, then up at the carefully raised eyes of the two men, and said crisply, "You have my thanks, and my clothes. I'd like them back now, if you don't mind."
They bent and gathered her garments promptly. "There's a worn spot here on your halter," Belkram said helpfully, pointing, "where it's starting to pull apa"
"I'll live with it, thanks," Shar told him firmly, taking everything in an armload and retreating hastily. "A worn part of my body customarily lives beneath it."
"Don't," Itharr said quickly, holding up a warning hand. "The body . .
Sylun added quietly, "To the right three paces, and there'll be no chance of slipping on gore or tripping over the ... remains."
Shar sighed, breathed deeply for a few momenta, and then turned her back on her two companions and marched around the body in a wide circle, heading for the other side of the ruins.
Belkram and Itharr exchanged glances, smiles, and shrugs. "Worth seeing, and that's all I'd best say" Itharr said quietly, reaching for the zzar bottle and its cork.
"I agree," Sylun's voice said sharply from the stone Belkram's fingers had just closed on. "Let's leave the comments at that fair observation, shall we?
"Of course, great lady," the Harpers replied in swift unison, and were treated to the sight of a stone chnelrling.
Belkram nearly flung it down a moment later when a startled scream rent the air from the far side of the ruin. The two men snatched out blades and sprinted to the rescue, running too fast to spare breath to growl, "What now rso Sylun voiced it for them.
They came around a rubble-strewn corner at a dead run, to see no nude ranger. "Shar?" Belkram called urgently.
"Here," their companion replied curtly, and they turned toward her voice. To find her, they had to pass through an arch and around the tumbled remnants of a wall, into a little sheltered corner. "Did you bring my blade?" demanded the woman huddled in the corner, shielding herself with her hands.
"N-no," Itharr said. "What befalls?
"Turn around while I dress," Shar ordered, "but keep your blades ready. You may need them."
A few breaths later she joined them, breathing heavily in her haste. "What made you scream?" Itharr asked, feeling her hand on his shoulder. "You never scream."
"Well, thank you," Shar replied evenly, "but I do. And so would you, if you were a woman wearing nothing but a smile and walked almost right into them?'
"Who're them'?" Belkram asked her, puzzled.
Shar pointed in exasperation. "There! In the trees!"
The Harpers looked, and frownedand then stiffened. Just inside the edge of the concealing trees, a dozen warriors stood frozen, weapons raised, faces tense, and eyes alight with frustration and appreciation. Belkram peered narrowly at the silent, absolutely motionless band. Only their eyes moved as he swung his sword idly in the air and stepped forward.
"Randal Morn, Lord of Daggerdale, if I'm not mistaken. . . and his court," he said, and bowed to one of the statuelike figures. "A moment, sir," he said, and then looked down to the stone in his hand. "Lady?"
"The second ring Sharantyr took from the bodyfrom the left little toeshould hold the means to free them," Sylune's voice said, a little wearily. As Belkram turned to walk back to where Shar had been working, Sylun
added, "They can help build a pyre. The body must be burned before someone gets a good look at it. Waste no time about this, mind."
"Of course not, great lady," Belkram said, sarcasm only . the faintest of ripples in his tone.
The deep tinkling sound made in reply by the stone in his palm was quite the loveliest chuckle he'd ever heard.
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Hythorn 16
Blue-tinged mists swirled hastily out of the way as Kostil of the Malaugrym stalked angrily through the Castle of Shadows. "Summoning us all to a council is a wiseif time-devouringaction at such a time, but how long must we wait for the Shadowmaster High to appear? I have plansI daresay we all doand now, with magic raging wild in Faerfin and godlings bounding all over the place, is not the time to tarry in bureaucratic power games!"
"I am of like mind," Yabrant said quietly. "What could he be about, to be so important tha"
Under their feet, the shadows shook with the sudden boom of the great bell. They stopped, turned as one, and grew wings to speed back to the Great Hall as the rolling echoes died away.
Then the bell rang again, a single strike in measured time with the previous ring. Their eyes met. The bell tolling? This could mean only one thingand Dhalgrave had been forceful, strong, and in full command of his powers not long ago at alt
Unlike Dhalgrave, neither of themsenior Shadowmasters bothhad the strength of magic to levitate around a chamber, move the seeking eye of the portal around Faeran, speak to an errant Malaugrym, bring one's own shape out of invisibility and alter the portal's size and location in the Great Hall, overriding its spell defenses constantly and smoothly to do so . . . all at once.
Moreover, all the things that laid humans lowheart attacks, diseases, poisons, the failure of veins and lesser organswere minor annoyances to Malaugrym able to change their bodies. Those of the blood of Malaug declined slowly, losing their shapeshifting abilities fitfully, usually along with their memories. Unless they were slain.
Kostil and Yabrant exchanged another grim glance and redoubled their efforts to get back to the throne rhambr. The great bell tolled once more as the speed of their passage made the shadows they tore through rise in a continuous moan.
*****
Daggerdale, Hythorn 16
"It has been a pleasure to aid you," Randal Morn said quietly, shaking their hands. Brammur smiled broadly and nodded his head in emphatic agreement, moustaches bobbing, but Thaern stood watchfully a little way to the side, an arrow fitted and ready in his bow. In these dark days, Daggerdale was hard pressed to keep its rightful lord alive.
The three rangers in worn leathers bowed in response. Straightening up, Sharantyr kept her features straight in the face of Brammur's longing gaze. The old warrior was obviously smitten with her. The eyes of the other loyal men of Daggerdale said plainly that they'd not forgotten their glimpses of her, either. She gave them all a cheery smile and said, "When the smoke begins to rise, I take it these ruins will become a very dangerous place to tarry?"
The Lord of Daggerdale nodded. "We are always watched," he said quietly, "by the cruel creatures of Thentil Keep and by predators hungry for man-meals. Not that there's much difference between them as far as the few surviving good folk of Daggerdale are concerned."
"Then we are forcing you into flight once more," Belkram said, in tones so sensitive that no warrior of Daggerdale thought to take offense at his words.
" 'Tis what we're best at, these days," Brammur rumbled, and there were rueful chuckles from his fellows.
"Then let us part as trusted friends," Itharr said gravely. Then his voice changed. "Anyone have flints handy?"
More chuckles gave him reply, and several hands crowded forward to strike sparks onto the handful of kindling that all wayfaring Harpers carried in their bedding, and coax it into a flame for the torch-rag.
As the kindling flared, Randal Morn said, "We'd best be on our way and leave you to bid farewell to your fallen comrade in privacy. Know that Those Who Harp are always welcome in Daggerdale."
"If you need refuge, doors are always open to you in Shadowdale," Sharantyr replied.
"And more," Belkram said. 'That Harper pin you have will allow you safely into a cache of healing potions and the like, in a cave big enough to shelter six, under a tree. Dig under leaves between the two largest exposed roots of the third shadovrtop tree south of Dagger Rock, on the east side of the road. Don't stop if you uncover orc bones."
The men of Daggerdale exchanged glances and nodded to each other as they fixed the Harper's words in mind.
"That is princely payment," Randal said quietly, "for cutting a few tree boughs."
"You deserve all that the Harpers can give you, and more," Itharr replied as flame flared under his hands. "Most folk would have fled or thrown their lives away in stiff-necked glory-seeking long ago. Your struggle protects all in the Dalelands."
"It is good," Brammur said gruffly, "to hear someone say that, now and then. Thank you." He turned away quickly, eyes very bright, but spun about again to raise his hand in salute.
Randal Morn and the rest of his men joined in the gesture and then began to back away together, the watchful archer covering their withdrawal.
In two breaths they'd all melted away into the trees, and the three rangers in the ruins could see no sign of them.
"Shar'?" Itharr asked, holding out the torch.
"You do it," Sharantyr said shortly, heart suddenly full and catching at her throat. She stepped back, fighting down the urge to burst into tears.
The Dales should not be lands where men's lives were torn away from them daily by fey shapeshifters and prowling beasts. Where brigands reigned and rightful lords lived like outlaws while arrogant Thentarim plotted the overthrow of the next dale .. . and the next.
Belkram touched her arm. "Mount up," he said quietly, "and then you can cry at will."
Shar stiffened, turning blazing eyes on him, but he merely smiled and clapped her on the shoulderthe shoulder covered by leathers he'd mended. She gulped, threw her arms around him, and said tremulously, jaw hard on his shoulder, "I'm ... not .. . going ... to ... weep now. It was only a false seeming of a mage, anyway, not our old friend."
The pyre crackled and then caught, damp wood hissing loudly as smoke rose from many places in the woodpile. Itharr tossed the torch onto it and sought his mount.
Flames began to show themselves, dancing here and there in the pyre.
The horses danced under their riders, the flames making them restive, so the three rangers pulled back a little way to watch.
"We should be leaving," Belkram said, "before eyes we won't welcome turn hither."
"Let us have a real pyre," Sylunes voice said, from the pouch in the Harpers breast pocket where he carried her stone.
An instant later, the growing crackle of flames leapt into a bright white roar, and a pillar of fire clawed at the sky.
The horses snorted and stamped. After a moment of awed watching, the three riders turned their mounts away and settled into a gallop, heading northwest. No one felt like talking.
9
Anothem Day Spent
Saving the ReaLms
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 17
Shadows danced and shivered around the edges of the scene in the portal. Six sweating elder Shadowmasters, under the gasped directions of Bheloris who stood among them, trembling with effort, fought to hold its view so large and dear.
Most of the kinsixty or morewere in the Great Hall of the Throne now, but the bell tolled on. Everyone but the struggling elders was talking excitedly, eyes glued to the portal, which showed Dhalgrave sprawled on the gleaming tiles of his private audience chamber. His eyes were two smoldering, empty holes. A long forked tongue trailed from his mouth, and his brow and wrists were bare. The Shadowcrown and the Doomstars were gone.
There was more. A word had been written on the tiles beside the head of the Shadowmaster High. . written in his own blood. That word was "UNWORTHY"
The talk was growing excited, as hope to seize the Shadow Throne grew in the hearts of two dozen Malaugrym, tempered only by fear of what might befall anyone who tried to hold that throne without the Shadowcrown and the threat of the Doomstars. Even if the ambushes and treacheries of open rivals were quelled, whoever had the missing items could appear without warning and slay any new Shadowmaster High, to take the throne in turn.
"Who could have done this?" Taernil asked for the sixth time, his voice as awed and outraged as it had been at first. Beside him, Huerbara sighed.
"Someone has," she said simply. "Accept that and go on. What now, for the two of us?"
"Accept that someone" The rising rage in Taernil's voice broke off abruptly, and he fell silent and looked at her. "You're right. We must decide what to do, and not rage or dither." Then his sharp features changed, and he added softly, almost wonderingly, "The two of us, you said . .
Huerbara blushed, eyes glittering into his, and then abruptly turned her head away.
"Young idiots," Kostil said under his breath, flapping his wings down to reabsorb them into his body, eyes on the quivering scene of Dhalgrave dead in his chambers.
Yabrant shrugged beside him. "We all were, once." He seemed about to say more, but at that moment Bheloris shuddered, cried out, and pitched forward on his face and the scene of death flew apart into shards and streamers of radiance, fading swiftly into the mists.
"He managed to force the portal's eye through Dhalgrave's defenses?' Kostil muttered. "I'm surprised he held it together so long."
"Malgrave wasn't resisting him or directing the shield spells," Yabrant said thoughtfully. "The feat is not that impressive. Doing it with such swiftness is."
"The young she-kin's question remains a good one," Kostil said. "What to we do now, the two of us?'
"Rescue Bheloris, before one of his old rivals decides to take advantage of his condition. We'll need him," Yabrant said, shouldering his way forward. "I believe the killing's about to start."
As he spoke, shouts arose across the Great Hall, and there was frenzied movement. The flaring radiance of a spell followed, accompanied by a scream, as the unleashed magics returned to their caster.
"Didn't that idiot pay any attention to Dhalgrave's words about the defenses he'd added to this hall? He made enough noise about "a truly safe meeting-ground for all of the blood of Malaug' and such!" Kostil's voice was disgusted. "Do we really share kinship with total idiots?'
"It's a common fate in the multiverse, I'm told," Yabrant replied wryly as they forced their way to Bheloris. They found Neleyd there before them, his body shifted
into a shield of many curling tentacles. 'Well done, boy." Neleyd flushed at the words, then sighed and asked, "Am I to be 'boy' forever?"
Kostil told him kindly. "You get to alternate between that, 'young fool,' and "brainless youngling' for a few hundred years yet?
"I'll enjoy that," Neleyd told him dryly, as the chamber rocked under the impact of two warring explosions, and kin all around them grew weapons out of their limbs and began shouting and hacking. "Let's be gone!"
"Wisely said, young fool," Yabrant told him with a many-fanged smile.
His expression was matched by a figure none of them saw, who stood watching the tumult from a high, shadowcloaked balcony. Milhvar smiled only that once, then turned silently away. There was much to do.

Somewhere in Faerfin, Kythorn 17
Elminster paused for a moment on a hilltop, his eyes full of swirling stars. The sight that showed him the flows of Artthat is, where magic could be expected to twist wildwas an exhausting thing to use for long, but he had to be sure of his next move. He had a long, hard day ahead, what with avatars stalking around Faeran, egos first, trying to destroy anything and everything that so much as looked askance at them.
A thought brought his pipe whizzing around his head to his lips, and he puffed on it thoughtfully. Over there was the next battle to be fought, aye, but first . . .
He leaned forward, banished the mage-sight, and called on farseeing for a moment. A gnarled tree, bark crumbling off a dead limb that curved just so. . . and the ground beneath .. . a-hum. Enough. Do it!
Abruptly the hilltop was empty except for a silently circling pipe. An instant later, the pipe vanished too.

Faeriin: a camp on the High Road south of Tunland, then Hawkgauntlet, Kythorn 18
"I told ye to 'strike at the goblins, an' leave the orc to me! Tempus take thee for a softskull, lad! Now well have to ... leave him lie."
"To die." It was not a question.
"Get out of my sight!" the old warrior roared, rounding on the younger with his eyes blazing almost-visible flames. The younger man fell back, fumbling for his blade in fearful habit. "If ye knew how to rotting take orders as well as ye know how to rotting well ignore 'em, we'd not have to be leaving anyone! Go now, afore I really lose my temper!"
The young warrior gulped, spun about, and ran.
The older armsman spat after him and then turned back to the injured priest of the Wargod, who lay clutch-. ing at a lapful of his own steaming innards where an orc scimitar had bitten deep. "Roarald?" he asked roughly. "Are ye with us yet, man?"
"I. . . I suppose," the reply came dully, the priest's eyes not seeing him. "Beware, Symon. I may be the luckier of us two. The days ahead will be dark. I have seen gods walking Faeran, and whole cities laid waste, and the land much changed. Titans dash with their heads among clouds and their feet trampling US poor folk beneath, and rivers run black with poison ... and more death than any war has brought to this world. No good. No good I've seen. . . no end that Tempus would show me." He caught his breath for a moment, and then gasped, "Symon! I am much afraid. Speak gently to the boy, for my sake. He was only... a helpful fool, and we've all been that a time or two."
The old warrior took him by the shoulders. "Don't leave us, Roared! Call on Tempus, man! Surely he owes ye something, after all these years! Surely hell"
"Speak not of the god that way!" Roarald was protesting feebly under his hands. "The way of Temp"
"Surely he does," a powerful, melodious voice thundered around them.
The two men gaped, dumbfounded, at the man-high, glowing battleswordof one piece of deadly blue-black metal, standing vertically with its point not quite touching the groundthat stood beside them. A sword that had certainly not been there before. That thunderous voice issued from it again.
"Stand clear, good Symon. Thy loyalty to a comrade pleases me."
White to the lips, the old warrior hastily scrambled back, going to his knees in-the mud. "M-my pardon, Great Lord! I meant no presumpt--"
"I know this. Be still now." The sword began to move, and the old warrior gulped once and was silent.
The black blade drifted silently through the air to hang with its point above Roarald's hands, where they clutched at his bloody vitals.
"I need ye, faithful servant. I need thy obedience and strong arms to keep order in this Time of Troubles. I need thy continued service, Roarald of Tempus. Will ye obey me still?"
"L-lord," the priest gasped, "I will... if I can."
"Then go to Luskan, and put down a rising of dark wizards who seek to plunge all the North into bloody slaughter not sanctioned by me. They seek to whelm all the Uthgardt tribes, rule their minds with potions and spells, and hurl them upon the cities of the North, Neverwinter first. Ye will gather my faithful against them, and Symon here will aid ye. The strife will be hard, and there may well be death in it for ye both. Knowing that, will ye do this?"
"I	Roarald gasped, a pink froth rising to his lips.
"But, Lord, I"
"Be still! Synion, will ye do this?"
"Lord of Battles," the old warrior said, face to the ground and teeth chattering, "I will...
"It is good. Roarald, draw thy hands away from thy
Hastily the priest did so, and the sword plunged down. A blaze of white fire shrouded the priest's agonized scream.
When he could see again, Symon struggled to his feet. "-Roarald? Raarald, do ye live, man?"
The priest was rising whole and strong, the stains of blood and dirt gone from his body. do," he said, wonder in his voice. "I live!"
"Praise be to Tempusr
"Praise be!" the priest agreed, and clapped his comrade on the shoulder. "Speedily, nowfind the boy and our horses. We ride on Luskan without delay!"
As Symon hurried oft the priest went to one knee and whispered, "Thank you, Tempus. I shall not forget."
"See that ye don't," a quiet voice came from the empty air, startling the man. He gulped, got up hastily, and ran after Symon.
And behind him a black sword melted out of the air, wavered, and became a thoughtful-looking old man, worn and much-patched robes draped about his thin frame. The morning sun gleamed on the man's long white beard and whiskers as a pipe floated into view from somewhere in the trees nearby and drifted gently up to the old man's mouth.
"That's done," Elminster muttered. "Too good a man to lose, Roarald, even if he is as stubborn as an old post. Hmmphl. A certain Queen of Aglarond has used those same words to describe me a time or two, hasn't she?"
He strolled away, calling to mind the next place he'd viewed from the hilltopand abruptly he was there, worn boots stepping onto the soft ground behind a tent.
"Another one dead? Have all the gods cursed this caravan?" The voice was proud and angry. "Who is it this time?"
"Mider, sir. He'seaten away, sir, like the others. Only his feet left, and his scalp. In his tent, still in his blankets."
"Was he the only one of us alone in a tent?"
"Yes, sir. Albrar was his tent mate, until
"I know. Maybe it's something they were carrying, the two of them. Burn that tent and everything in it, just as it stands. Now!"
"Yes, sir." There was the sound of hastily receding
booted feet, followed by a rustling of canvas and tent silks.
"Do they suspect?" a new voice asked in a whisper that did not carry beyond the ear it was said into.
"Mider did, but it's just a little too late for him, now," was the amused reply. The shared mirth that followed was silenced by the meeting of lips, a mouth-coupling that soon became a frantic, muffled screaming as the doppleganger couple found themselves locked in their embrace, immobilized by something that had twisted them into their true, monstrous shapes, and frozen them there. Something that drifted up from the tent like a ghostly mist and whirled back into the shape of Elminster.
"It shouldn't take long for someone to find them," he said, turning away in satisfaction. "Live by trickery, die by trickery That'll be my ending too, no doubt, when at last it comes.'
He stepped through the trees to where his pipe hung. "Now I'd best hurry" he murmured. "Galdus hasn't much time left." And then he was gone, an instant before a guard, drawn sword in hand, came warily down the path in search of the privy bench.
The Hawkgauntlet Arms was distant indeed from that privy bench at the back of the carEivan camp, but it was the pride of Hawkgauntlet, a hamlet north and west of Ilipur too small to grace any map. And too poor to loot, unless one was a brigand too hungry to care.
Elminster shoved open the groaning front door and stepped into the gloomy taproom beyond. The old man behind the bar blinked at him in the sudden shaft of daylight. "We're not open yet," he said gruffly. "Come back at sundown."
"I'm not thirsty, Galdus," the Old Mage replied, coming to the bar. "I've come to give ye something."
The old man's eyes narrowed, and he peered at Elminster in the dimness. "I know you, don't I?" he asked thoughtfully. "That voice . . ."
"The magefair when Almanthus tried to make the mountain fly" Elminster reminded him gently. The man's head snapped back.
"E/nu:nsterr
"The same," El said, sliding a coin across the bar with one finger.
The old man stared at it, and then up at him. "What'll you have?"
Elminster shook his head. "I need ye to do something for me. Four things, actually"
The old man blinked again, and grinned. "That sounds like the Elminster I knew, to be sure."
"Ye have only a few minutes left to live, if ye do these four things wrong," the Old Mage said softly. "So heed."
Galdus glared at him, then swallowed and nodded. It had been years since he'd worked magic, and he knew he'd been no match for Elminster even at the height of his striving. "Say on," he said shortly.
"Armed men are coming this wayhungry and ruthless wild-swords," El said, "and they'll be here very soon. I need ye to stand stall whilst I cast two spells on thee."
Gald-us sighed. "Do it," he said simply. El nodded, and made two quick sets of gestures, touching the old bartender at the end of each.
"Whatwhat did you do?"
"Made ye immunefor a little whileto all harm from weapons of iron and to all thrown or hurled things, like arrows. The same cannot be said for anyone else ye may employ or dwell with here. So the second thing I need ye to do is to keep all such folk from harm. Warn them now, but be quick!"
Galdus stared at him for a moment, then ducked his head through the door behind him and spoke quickly and sharply. Then he closed the door, and Elminster heard a bar being settled across it from within. "Done," the old man said simply.
"I need ye to give this coin to the men when they demand money of ye. Best give them a handful to go with it, so they don't suspect a trick?
Galdus reached down behind the bar, opened a cupboard door, and dumped the contents of an old, cracked earthen jar onto the bar. A gleaming faa of silver and copper coins slid out. "I'll be counting coins when they
come in, then."
El nodded. "I couldn't help but notice, on my way in, that thy outhouse is a bit of a ruin," he said, nodding his head in its direction.
"-That one?" Galdus grinned. "We don't dare use it. When it falls in, I'll have the lads take away what they want, for manure. If you have to feed the gods, the real one's out back."
It was Elminster's turn to smile. "Feed the gods? I hadn't heard that expression!" He chuckled, then stopped at the look on the old man's face. "Ye call it that because of what befell ye at the temples?"
Galdus nodded, face set. It had been forty summers ago that his health had been broken and his magic torn from him by two warring priests in Sembia. Their temples had grown in size and splendor, and doubtless they'd grown fat and powerful with them, but Galdus had been left with only one spell he could use. There's not much future for a mage who can create magical radiance at will, and do nothing else.
Elminster leaned forward across the bar. "If it makes ye feel better, old friend, know that all the gods have been cast down into Faeran. That's what's behind all these troublesthe wild magic and roaming monsters, outlaws and armies everywhere. The gods are wandering FaerAn with little more up their sleeves than ye or I have. A lot of folk will get hurt, aye, but at least the gods1.1 be feeling just what ye went through."
Galdus stared at him, slack jawed. Then a deep red color slowly rose in his face, and he leaned forward with the first enthusiasm El had seen in him. "Is this true?" he asked excitedly, and then paled. "I-I didn't mean . .
El smiled. "Be easy, Galdus. Yes, it's true."
And then the old, balding bartender threw back his head and bellowed with laughter. "Yes!" he cried. "Yes?' He whooped, jumped around behind the bar, and -with sudden resolve snatched up a cracked tallglass and hurled it exultantly across the taproom. Watching it shatter into a thousand shards in the empty fireplace, he looked up with fierce exultation in his face and said,
'Where are these brigands? I'll face 'em, and fifty more besides! Bring 'em on!"
Elminster grinned. "There's the fourth thing," he added.
"What? Galdus grinned back. -
"Ye may have to lose that old outhouse," El told him. "And I hope ye have a fire in the kitchen ye can get to swiftly, with some logs on it that're well and truly alight, but have tmburnt ends ye can carry 'em by."
Galdua stared at him for a moment, and then laughed again. "I have, and can. What's this all about?"
"Well," El began, "just be sure-ye say "With Elminster's regards' to whoever touches that coin, an"
The door banged open suddenly, and the Old Mage Was gone, as if he'd never been there. Galdus blinked at where he'd been and then at the drawn swords coming across the room at him, followed by the stench of old sweat and desperate men.
"Counting the coins, were ye? Well, I think that right kindly of ye, to save us the trouble of finding 'em. Go and get yer real savings, old man, with Baerlus here beside ye to save tricks, while we have a pull or two at a keg o' yer beet!"
"Who? What're y" Galdus began, struggling to keep a smile from his face. Then he saw the man's hands raking the coins across the bar, and knew the enspelled one might bounce and roll on the floor in a moment, so he stammered, "With Elminster's regards!"
"You fools," he added a breath later, watching the coin erupt into wildly coiling black tentacles. The five brigands shouted in alarm, and the one who must be Baerlus snarled and drove his blade into Galdus, under the old man's ribs, jerking his steel savagely up and sideways.
Galdus stared down in wonder as the weapon slid through him as though he were a ghost. He didn't feel a thing! The outlaw stared up at him, face paling, and then hacked wildly at him, the blade whipping back and forth like a flail on the threshing floor.
The blade seemed not able to touch him, though he felt the man's knuckles graze his shoulder on one wild swing.
Baerlus stared at him, dumbfounded. Galdus snatched a wooden salad bowl from its wall peg and brought it down smartly on the man's sword hand.
Baerlus howled and stepped back, dropping his blade with a clatter, so Galdus leaned in and walloped him across the side of the head with the edge of the bowl. The outlaw staggered and stepped back, right into his four fellows.
They were thrashing and grunting in fear, staggering around his taproom helplessly in a confused tangle of arms and legs. The coin had become a black ball with many long tentacles that stuck to flesh as a sucking eel sticks to fish. The tentacles were wriggling and probing constantly but didn't stick to clothing, weapons, or wood. The four outlawsno, five now, with Baerluswere firmly bound together, unable to straighten up or even turn to face each other as the tentacles pulled them in closer together... and closer still . . .
Galdus watched the brigands struggle, slipping and sliding on the coins and swords that lay dropped and forgotten all over his recently cleaned floor. They crashed aside chairs and even a table, yelling in muffled fury and mounting fear, and rolled about, their struggles taking them vaguely away from the bar.
The front door groaned open again, and Galdus looked up warily, wondering if he could reach any of the swords on the floor. The man who stepped inside, however, was Elminster.
"My apologies, Galdus," he said. 'I'd something else to attend to and no time to do it in. But 'tis done now."
"Can Imay I ask what it was?"
"I had to talk a few frightened archpriests in Baldur's Gate out of starting a religious waron each other:"
"Why bother? Galdus asked, frowning. Then his frown deepened. "Did it work?"
"No, of course not, so I had to scare them into a truce
by showing them what rd do if they didn't make peace." "You flattened both temples," Galdus said hopefully. Elminster grinned.-"I see ye know the basics. I did in-
deed. Rebuilding and trying to keep folk from looting will
keep both sides busy for a time." He stepped carefully around the tangled knot of rolling, kicking brigands and continued. "And to answer thy other question, I bothered because I didn't want to see a lot of homes burned and innocent folk slain in the Gate over some disagreement that had nothing to do with them.' He sighed. "This is going on all over Toril, right now. First thing this morn, I had to do the same thing to head off rival factions of illithids, in a city in the heart of Raurin."
Galdus stared at him. "Mind flayers? You stopped mind flayers from killing each other? Why?'
"They're intelligent folk too, just as ye, I, and these dolts here are. And besides, they're sitting on enough battle spells there to destroy half the eastern Realms! I didn't want any tentacle-heads to remember that and start tearing open vaults and using 'em. A few hundred years more, and most of the scrolls will have crumbled away to nothing. . and it'll take them half that time to dig out all the stonework I piled up on top of those vaults!"
Galdus grinned. 'Make sure you check back with me in a few hundred years, then, to let me know Faerlin is safe to live in at last. In the meantimer--he gestured down at the tightening mass of bodies on the floor"what do we do with these?"
"Roll them into thy outhouse and burn it," Elminster said calmly.
10
TaLking to Gobs
Daggerdale, Sythorn 18
The Mountains of Tethyamar rose like a distant wall ahead on their left as the three rangers in worn and patched leathers rode warily into another soft-shadowed evening. They were headed into the heart of lawless Daggerdale, Randal Morn had warned them; reaches where steads lay abandoned to the forest, arcs and hobgoblins roamed the land in raiding bands and clashed whenever they met, and monsters lurked in the ruins and woody tangles for the unwary. For all those dire warnings, they'd ridden all day and seen nothing more deadly than birds. Of course, Itharr reflected, they had no idea just what might have seen them.
"Oh, but the land is beautiful," he sang softly as they forded their third tinkling stream.
"And the living carefree," Belkram sang the next line, heavy irony in his tone.
Sharantyr chuckled and took up the song. "So come, ye fairest of dark-eyed maidens . . ."
"And come dwell in the greenwood with me!" Itharr and Belkram sang together. Ahead of them, a gore-crow took wing heavily from a dead branch and flapped away with a derisive caw.
"What are you, a bard?" Itharr called after it. The bird circled, winked at him once with a very steady black eye, and flew away.
'The Simbul?" Belkram breathed the question as they all stared after it.
"Without a doubt," Sylun's voice came to them from the stone in his breast pocket "She probably appreciates your singing about as much as I do."
"A little less sarcasm there," Belkram told her. The stone thrummed against his chest in reply. The hand-
some ranger stood up in his stirrups to look all around and sighed. "I suppose we'd better start looking for somewhere we can defendand protect the horses, tooand camp for the night."
"Agreed," Sharantyr said, drawing up beside him on her patient steed. "But after we're out of the saddle, I'd like to talk about the wisdom of riding aimlessly around the most dangerous territory we can find, now that we lack a false Elminster to escort. Surely these deadly shapeshifters can find us wherever we axe'?"
Belkram sighed again. "To hear good sense spoken so directly and clearly is always disconcerting. It makes debate seem so. . foolish."
"Spoken like a man!" Itharr agreed in robust tones.
"Exactly," Shar and the stone that was Sylun said in perfect unison. After a moment, everyone laughed.
Belkram rose again in his saddle still chuckling, and pointed northwest. "Is that a suitable place I see before me?"
"Pray, good knight, ride ye and see," Itharr quoted in response.
Belkram looked quickly at the lady ranger who rode with them, cleared his throat, and said loudly, "Ah, no, Itharr. Not that ballad. Really"
Shar gave him a smile, a twinkle in her gray-green eyes, and sang steadily, "For I crave a bank by a stream running softly, where yell lay me down and make love to me!"
"Oh, no!" Itharr said in shocked tones. "You were right, bold Belltram. Not a suitable ballad at all!"
"Belt up and stow it," Belkram told him dryly. "Well, what say you? Does anyone know what that place might be?"
"It's a little hard to see from inside this pocket," Sylun said sweetly. "Perhaps if we get closer and you dismount, I could tell something about it. We'd best poke about a bit first, to see if that's a prudent course of action?'
Itharr and Sharantyr both spread eloquent empty hands in answer to Belkram's query "We're out:of the bits of Daggerdale I know," Shar added. "It looks more
like a manor on a hill than a keep, but just as far past its proud days as hythkeep. We'll be lucky to find any part of it still with a roof."
"Well, we've been very lucky in avoiding rain thus far," Itharr observed brightly.
"Hush!" both of the other riders said severely.
"Do you want to bring it on?" Sharantyr demanded, scowling. "I've heard of lump-headed idiots before, but"
"You weren't prepared for what a couple of Harpers can do," Sylun said loudly enough for them all to hear, startling Belkram into nearly falling out of his saddle.
"Steady on, there," Itharr commented. "The bit of the horse that snorts and has ears is the front. Now, all you have to do is keep a leg either side of the beast and that front bit pointed"
"You can belt up any time, friend," Belkram said easily. "Your tongue runs on almost as Much as Elminster's!" The stone in his pocket laughed heartily.
"Enough," Sharantyr said, her eye on the lowering sun. "Trap or no, let's look at this place before darkness leaves us no choices at all."
The ruin they were fast approaching stood on a grassy hill whose steep slopes fell away into thick, tangled woods to the east and south. Broken land, all hills and copses, lay beyond it to the north, and there seemed to be a patchwork of woodlots and meadowsthe former manor farmlands, no doubtto the west. An overgrown road of sorts crossed the rolling country before them, leading down into the woods and thence up that oddly bare hill to the ruin. Why had no saplings sprung up on the hillsides?
"I don't like the look of it," Itharr said.
"Nor do I," Belkram said, "but I must remind you that I've heard those same words from you about seventy times sincOlito began faring together"
"And howidlen was my concern justified?"
, "Umni:-i:twenty times or so."
"Well?
'But if we strike out the times we were looking at
known Zhentarim holds, brigand camps, and undead litharr ... four times."
"Perhaps this'll be five," Itharr offered, almost hopefully.
"You don't really have too much doubt, do your
"No. The backs of my hands itch," the burly Harper said, as if that explained everything.
"The backs of his hands itch," Belkram told the sky. "Shar, you're closer. Scratch them for him, will you?"
"I go out riding with a pair of hairily handsome men," Shar told her horse conversationally, "and what do they want me to do? Scratch the backs of their hands. You certainly meet some crazed-wits in the ranks of the Harpers, don't you?"
"Enough levity," Itharr said in quite a different voice, and drew his sword. A moment later he was riding down a green tunnel beneath the interlaced branches of the trees, slowing his mount abruptly and looking warily at the trees ahead. "Lady of the Forest, be with us," he breathed, knowing an arrow could take him in the face or throat before he even saw it.
He glanced back once. Sharantyr was catching up to him swiftly, her beautiful brown hair flowing free around her shoulders and her blade naked in her hand. Far behind he could see Belkram, head turning from side to side and then twisting to look back the way they'd come, in a steady, watchful cycle.
Knowing just what reckless fools they were, Itharr sighed as he faced the woods and rode on. Ahead, the road dipped to ford a small stream. Noa sagging bridge, gray with age and neglect, sloped across the bright ribbon of water. Past the bridge, the road climbed out into daylight, up the hill.
He expected an attack where prudence forced him to dismount and lead the horse through the shallow waters just above the ruined bridge, but none came. He thought he saw a small dark figure turn and scuttle away through the trees well downstream, but brownies_ and halflings could almost always be found in country like this, and might well leave a few humans alone.
Or might not, as their inclinations took them. Itharr's shoulders felt very exposed as he rode up the hill and circled the ruin at a careful trot, seeing his companions come up the hill in turn.
Someone had burned the manor house a long time ago. Roofless walls were all that was left of two barns and the house itself which had a semicircular flagstone terrace commanding a very pleasant view from the hilltop. Anything with eyes had seen them approach, but the ruins looked safe enough in themselves. Sharantyr was already dismounting to check the corners.
"Human bones here," she said almost immediately, "and orcs, too. Long dead, and scattered by something that came along later, something hungry that had big teeth."
"Ah, the expertise of the trained ranger," Belkram said jovially. "Have you decided on the best place.for the horses?"
"Indeed," Shar told him pleasantly, "but I'm not sure if all three of thern'll fit there; you'd probably struggle and squirm"
Itharr's barked laughter spilled out his relief that no attack had come, and it was Sylun's turn to sigh. "Crude, children very crude. I'd best come out and look about. I can see undeath and things invisible where you can't."
"Please do," Belkram replied. "Teasing aside, I've just as odd a feeling about this too-pleasant place as Itharr."
The stone seemed to turn over in his pocket, and Belkram felt the softest of breezes against his cheek. 'Try to behave while I'm gone," came a whisper in his ear, and he frowned in puzzlement at the word "gone" until he recalled her first act BB Elminster, when coining to a camp: checking the trees all around for spies, brigands, game trails, and the like. He stretched, trying to relax shoulders tight with tension, and looked around the ruin.
The place'must have been a cozy house when it was whole, not a grand residence. There were no halls, forechambers, or defensive ring walls, just a stout building of rooms opening into rooms. They chose one for the horses
and another for themselves, and built a fire as soon as Sylune drifted back unseen to tell them the woods around were safe for as far as she'd cared to look.
Belkram had bent his ear her way in suspicion at something subdued in her tone, but Sylun saw him and said firmly, 'Nothing is amiss that need concern you, Belkram. Relax, and have that debate you were so looking forward to. 111 stand watch the night through, if you'll alk sleep clothedor at least with your boots onand
weapons to hand."
'That's hardly fair to you," Shar objected, and was rewarded with light laughter.
"Child, I don't need to sleep anymore ... remember?"
"True enough," Sharantyr conceded. "Well, then, let's, have our tongue-wag now, and stow it all when the food's; ready"
"Aye, I've noticed that works with these two," Sylun agreed. "Speak."
"The question," Sharantyr said promptly, looking to her companions for confirmation, "is whether we're better off out here in the wilds or back home in Shadowdale,now that the Malaugrim have slain Old Elminster."
"It's safer for us back in the dale, surely," Itharr told the food he was preparing.
"Yes, but if we return there, we'll bring danger to Shadowdale at the hands of any Malaugrym who show up to attack us," Belkram put in from where he was seeing to the horses.
"Well, then, what about going to another defensible place?" Sharantyr replied. "One we don't care about, but which shelters us from brigands, hungry beasts, and other wandering perilsincluding marauding avatars, I suppose.'
"Umm . . got any such place in mind?" Itharr asked, looking up.
Shar shrugged. "My experience of these lands is limited," she reminded them. "I'm merely suggesting a strategy."
"What I'd like to know more about is our foes," Belkram grunted, checking the hooves of a horse who saw no
reason for staying in a stony pen when there was a lovely grassy hill out there under the setting sun, and was firmly telling the nearest human its views. "Sylune?"
"The Malaugryma race of shapeshifters descended from the sorcerer Malaug, who have traditionally kidnapped women of Faerfin and taken them as mates dwell in a vast, ever-changing Castle of Shadows on the demiplane of Shadow," the disembodied voice told them. "Some of them are powerful mages, but none dare to walkFaeran openly because of Elmiru3ter, whom they call the Great Foe."
"Because he once foiled one of their kidnappings or slayings?" Itharr asked.
"Precisely. Centuries ago, they stole spells and enchanted items from all over Faerilncompeting with each other, I've been toldand quite often killed wizards so as to have a free hand in plundering their magic. When they tried to do the same to Elminster, he slew one of them and warned the others present to stay out of our world, but that just made them determined to eliminate him. It's been a running battle between the Malaugryra and the Chosen down the long years since, especially a year back when spellfire appeared in the Realms, in the hands of Shandril Shessair. Elminster and the Simbul between them kept her alive and out of Malaugrym hands, more than anyone else?
Sharantyr nodded slowly. "I know, now, why the Knights decided to let Narm and Shandril go unescorted, but for Torm and Rathan riding after them."
"Yes," Sylun said. "Elminster didn't want any of you slain by the Malaugrym because you got in their way. The Shadowniasters, as they call their eldest and most powerful, think themselves superior to all folk of Faerfin. We're cattle, to be slaughtered or stolen from at whim?
"Charming," Shar commented, lifting her lips in a meet "Remind me, dahlia" to slaughter the cattle out of hand tonight . . ."
"Now, now," Belkram said, "don't give them any ideas. They may well be listening to us now."
"They probably are," Sylune confirmed calmly.
"What puzzles me," Itharr said, "is why they haven't taken to ruling the Realms long ago. How many of them are there, that a few diligent archmages can stop them? And what else do we know of their powers? What can slay them?"
"We don't know how many of them exist," Sylun replied. "As you can appreciate, it's difficult to do any sort of body count on secretive shapeshifters who're engaged in intrigues against each other as well as battles with folk of the Realms. . . except for, of course, a literal body count."
"Hoo-hah," Belkram agreed. "So what's Elrainster's best guess?"
"He thought there were about seventy of any consequence," Sylun answered, chuckling at the calmly pressed questiOn, "but that's before the Simbul had her little disagreement with them back at Irythkeep."
"Killing them," Itharr said. "Get back to killing them.'
"Well, they're physically very stronghardy is perhaps a better word; they'd have to be, to change shape so oftenand so fare well in falls and the like, though it seems Malaugrym who've taken another shape can be slain by whatever would usually be fatal to the shape they're using. Cut off the head of a Malaugrym horse" one of the horses lifted its head to give her a hard stare, and Sylun darted over to mindtouch and be sure it was a horse and not something more, before proceeding "and you'll slay the Malaugrym, unless it's moved its vital functions somewhere else by starting to shift into another shape. Apparently they're suspicious enough of each other to shift body shape all the time, and go about their castle in forms that have several heads, tentacles all over the place, and so on."
"Definitely charming," Itharr said. "Go on."
"They like to take human shape but tend to put their vital functions in unusual body areas, so stabbing one in the eye might not blind it, and there may be no brain behind the eye to harm. Malaugrym who have magic can, of course, hurl spells if need be, in any body shape, and can cast protections on themselves before venturing out, just
as human wizards do. They're also, as far as we've been able to learn, immune to all poisons fatal to men."
"So what is poisonous to a Malaugrym, I wonder?" Belkram asked softly. 'There must be something."
"There is," Sylun confirmed. "The touch of silver in their bloodso on a blade, for instanceis corrosive to all of their tissues it reaches."
"It would have been useful," Itharr said quietly, "to have known this a little earlier"
"My apologies," Sylun said. "You are right, and right to be angry. WeElminster, of coursedidn't want you to alert the Malaugrym to a possible deception when we rode out, by demonstrating that you knew all about them. He's. . . he can be ruthless too, in his own way"
"We know that," Sharantyr said with feeling. "Believe me, we know that." The two Harpers laughed easily.
Ah, Shar, 'twas a grand adventure that befell us in the High Dale!"
"You had each other," Sharantyr pointed out. "I was paired with Elminster."
"There're ladies across Faerfin who'd swoon for a chance to be where you were," Belknun reminded her.
"Right, you can call some of them in next time . . . but enough," Shar said briskly. "We'll trade salacious stories another time. Correct me, please, if I err in the following admittedly brief analysis. We have a handful of halfspent magic items and Sylund's wisdom and watchfulness to use against an unknown number of powerful shapeshifting wizards who come from another plane . . and presumably can flee back there, out of our reach, whenever they desire."
"No, I think you've said it pretty well," Belkram agreed. "Despite our cause being heroic and our hearts pure, we've been very lucky to survive thus far. Sooner or later if they bother with us, well be caught and overwhelmed .. . as we almost were before the Simbul showed up."
"As we were, I must remind everyone, by nothing more than hobgoblins," Itharr put in soberly. Then he laughed, a sudden light dancing in his eyes. "Why not take the
battle to this mysterious castle hideaway of the_Malaugrym? If we're dead anyway, what's to be lost? Why not take some of them.with us?'
"Spoken like a true Harper," Belkram agreed.
"Spoken like a true idiot," Sharantyr retorted.
"There is often a great similarity, yes," Sylun said diplomatically, and they all chuckled. After a moment of silence, an owl hooted somewhere off in the woods, and Rharr asked, "Well?'
"Well, what?"
"Who's for attacking this castle on the morrow?" "Are you crazy?"
"Why don't you sleep on it until morning, all of your Sylune suggested. "We can talk again then, when there isn't food spoiling."
"Itharr!"
"Sorry!" Itharr promptly burned his fingers at the fire, nearly dropped most of the food into the flames, and gave vent to almost as many colorful suggestions as were offered to him.
The scorched rabbit was, surprisingly, very good.
* * * * *
Hawkgauntlet, Hythorn 18
Across the gloomy taproom of the Hawkgauntlet Arms, the balding bartender stared at Elminster and slowly grew pale. "Burn them alive?" he gasped. "Right . . . here?"
"Would ye prefer I did the deed?"
Galdus gulped. "I'd prefer. .. it didn't happen at all."
Elminster nodded at him. "I hear ye," he said softly.
take them far away instead. If I leave them nearby believe meyell have them back here soon, carving up thy folk, looting thy tavern, and then going on to the next place."
Galdus nodded. "No doubt. Yet if you burn them here, rd have to move on myself. I couldn't walk past their ashes every morn. . I just couldn't."
The Old Mage nodded. "I understand," he said quietly. "So be it." He murmured something and waved a hand, and the struggling brigands were suddenly gone.
"Are they ... dead?"
"Not yet. If they behave, not for many years yet. But I'm afraid I don't expect them to behave."
The bartender gulped. "I. . . ah . . . you have my thanks, friend."
"Fair fortune follow thee and thine," Elminster said in formal reply. Then he smiled, went to the bar, and extended his hand.
Galdus took it. "Thanks for saving our livesmyself and the wife and the three lasses the other side o' that door, my two daughters and one I hire in. Thanks for the magic, too."
"Oh, aye," Elminster said, and leaned forward to touch the old man's shoulder.
Galdus stiffened. 'What did you do?"
"You have a year, now, of taking no harm from slung stones and fired arrows and cutting blades of iron and steel. A year mind. Use it well to make the folk who're going to be fleeing here from Westgate in the months ahead respect ye."
Galdus tried to smile. 'Those brigands. . . You have to slay like that often?"
"All the time," Elminster said simply. "Today's been quite a busy day for it, but yestereve was worse." He turned toward the door.
"Is all this slaying the price of becoming an archmage?" Galdus asked from behind him, almost whispering.
'Nay," Elminster said, fixing him with tired eyes. 'This is thkprice of keeping the Realms alive. I've been paying it for More than a thousand years."
Galdus paled again but held up a hanato stop Elrninster's departure. He drew two tankards of bitter from a keg and wordlessly slid one across the bar. Elminster took it, and from his empty hand a stack of gold coins slid onto the polished wood.
'Tis free, El!" Galdus said almost angrily, looking
down at the coins, then up at the Old Mage, and then down at the coins again, mouth dropping open.
"Ye have two daughters to raise, and maybe three, if the year ahead is cruel to the parents of the other," El said. "Put those awaybury 'em in a pot nearbyand yell have what ye need, later on." He grinned suddenly. "Perhaps even enough to rebuild that outhouse."
Galdus turned very red and then, a long moment later, grinned back_
"Right, then," he said, carefully taking up the coins. His hands trembled slightly as he put them in a sack and tied it at his belt. Then he took a pull at his tankard and looked at Elminster with almost pleading eyes.
"I'm a fool for asking this," he said quietly. "You could burn this place down, and me with it, probably by uttering a single word."
El inclined his head in a slow nod. "But ye're a man and were once a mage, so yell ask."
Galdus grinned slowly, shook his head, and said, "Yes. Well. . . Right, then. Why is all this killing necessary?"
Elminster shrugged. "Because I haven't yet succeeded in talking anyone to death."
"What?"
"I can't get folk to agree with others in peace. Always swords, spells, poison, or just fists come out . . . and are used." He sipped thoughtfully at his beer and said, "For several hundred years I tried to forge treaties here and handshakes there across Faerem, and trust rulers to keep 'em. Some did so for as long as a year or two, seldom more.'
He stared into his beer and added, "I grew tired of threatening and pleading, over and over again. Folk lied to me, smiled, and laughed at my back the moment I'd left. So I did what I had to: told folk clearly what the price'd be if they didn't keep peace in this or that way they'd agreed to. And I made them pay the price when I had to. Sudden respect, or sudden death, was the result. Some folk learned, and that won us peace enough for humankind to rise above scrabbling in the dirt to feed ourselves between goblinkin raids and monster attacks."
El drained his beer. "So men grew rich, and arrogant, and spread across Faeriln, making me wonder if I'd really done wrong, as the glorious old peoples, the elves and the dwarves, grew few and hunted. I started to worry about having to slaughter entire realms of men to keep us from laying waste to all Toril, burning down every tree for fuel, and eating all else, and finally each otherand then starving in the desert we'd left, dying off with a world wasted."
Galdus stared at him, swallowed beer without tasting it, and waved at him wordlessly to continue.
"I needn't have worried," Elminster went on, rubbing his sharp nose and looking off into the distance. "Humankind took advantage of its power and leisure to go to war with itself. . . and still does, year after year I sometimes wonder if they've managed this any better, in other worlds where there are men, elsewhere in the multiverse."
The Old Mage fixed Galdus with calm eyes. "My job now-with the other Chosen, and the Harpers I helped found, and all the rulers I can dupe or threaten or bargain withis to keep wars small and the real villains in check so that little folk, like thy family, can grow just a little better off year by year."
Galdus finished his own beer and held out his hand for El's tankard.
"From anyone else," he said heavily, refilling them both, "I'd call this deluded raving. A thousand years . . He shook his head. "Yet I believe you." He said it almost wonderingly and shook his head again as he set a full tankard down in front of the Old Mage. 'Say on, please."
Elminster raised his beer in a silent toast. As the two tankards clinked, he asked the bartender, "Have ye never wondered why, year after year the cruel mages in Thay, Zhentil Keep, Calimshan, and half a hundred other places don't destroy half the Realms in spell duels? Or just lead armies to roll over all of ye and meet to hack each other up in the smoking ruins that're left? Or why those orc hordes out of the northernmost mountains, that cover the land for mile upon mile of grunting goblinkin, don't just sweep over everyone?"
He drained his beer at single gulp. "Slaying," he answered himself, "that's why. Slaying when needful, and only when needful. Some realms have armies to do such dirty deeds. Shadowdale has Elminster."
Galdus swallowed. "When I was young and thought I could rule the world in just a few years, with just a few more spells, I used to talk about the way of the world and how I'd change it. I think all young wizards do, if they've someone to talk to. Later on, I never thought it'd all be for real, or that any halfway sane wizard spoke so, when he grew older" He shook his head and looked up at Elminster. "I thought they all just got twisted with power and greedy for more, and spent their days selling scrolls for gold or stealing spells from tombs or their enemies, or locked themselves away to go slowly mad making spells to open doors silently, or get wet laundry dry or open stuck corks in old bottles ... or blew themselves and their towers to the skies trying to perfect army-reaving magic's."
"Most of them do just that," Elminster said softly. "Yet their very self-interest helps the rest of us. They're turned inward to small things, not trying to change the world, but they're in the way of conquerors and monsters. Intelligent folk rightly fear that they'll awaken and do battle if threatened, and beasts find that out the hard way"
Galdus grunted. "It makes one want to have more to drink, thinking about it."
Elminster grinned. "A lot of wizards do that, too."
He straightened in his seat and said, "My thanks for the bitter, Galdus, and the converse. 'Tis seldom I get to talk so freely to someone who'll understand, and more seldom yet that I find someone I dare say such things to. All too"
And then the very air around him danced with blue sparks, and Elminster saw the bartender freeze in midstep, mouth hanging open to speak, eyes fixed on nothingness. The front door groaned.
Elminater found that he could still move in that surging web of magicmore than he'd ever felt unleashed
beforeso he turned toward the door to see who'd wrought it. He might as well see whatever god his words had angered, before they destroyed him.
A thin woman in a black gown was just closing the door behind her. She was alone, and her raven-dark hair, red-and-black eyes, and ivory skin made her look like a vampire. Her gait and movements, too, echoed the sultry, almost pouting manner of many she-vampires Elminster had met, but her eyes were somber as she walked toward the Old Mage.
"Your words have saved you," she said quietly, "and found me the teacher I needand need to trust. Well met, Elminster."
"Well met, lady," Elminster said, bowing to her. "Who are your
"Midnight is the name I am known to most by, but you may call me. . . Mystra. We must talk."
11
Two Etiges to
Emmy Swon6 Mate
The Castle of Shadows, Hythorn 18
The three Malaugrym stood waiting like patient statues as Millivar said, The Shadowmaster High had great hopes for this project. Try not to let him down. But above all else, we want you back safely. If anything goes wronganythinguse the power of your belt buckles to get back to us. Even if the foe is under your blade or in your hands, break off rather than be takenor slain. There will be other forays, and other chances."
The three kin nodded, and one of them added a visibly nervous swallow. Milhvar did not smile or shrug. If they lived through this, perhaps they'd grow into Shadowmasters of some use. Huerbara almost was already, only her inability to bridle a too-oft-blazing temper holding her back. But Kuervyn and Andraut were nothings, all swagger and undisciplined thrill-seeking. They still found nightly fun in shapeshifting their ways through FaeriMian brothels, and took their greatest satisfaction in leaving without paying!
Dead growth, the pair of them. Milhvar let nothing of this judgment show as he told them all to willingly draw at least a drop of their own blood with a talon, claw, body spur, or other part of their own shape, and signaled the team of Shadowmaster mages to begin weaving the cloaks.
He'd deliberately woven the chain of interlocked spells to be more complex than it need be, take longerand require more magesthan it needed to, and to be more than a little unstable. He'd no wish to unleash an army of unbeatable flamebrains like Kuervyn and Andraut on Faertin or anywhere else.
When the long chanting and gesturing was done, and a
shimmering and dark singing in the air above the three told him the spell-cloaks were done, he stepped forward and added the "secret spell" that linked each magical construct to its wearer, through the drop of blood. This false enchantment added nothing useful to the process, but kept Milhvar essential to the crafting of every spellcloak of the Malaugrym. A useful, if dangerous, status to hold.
But then, there were no safe positions to hold in the ranks of the blood of Malaug. Milhvar lifted his lip in a mirthless grin at the thoughtand seeing this Kuervyn toppled over, fainting dead away.
Milhvar laughed aloud as he strode toward the fallen Malaugrym, ignoring the smoking glare Huerbara gave him. There were still amusements to be found, if one waited patiently for them. It would be funnier still if these three went into Faerim and found Elminster waiting for them. Perhaps he could arrange it sometime.

Dag'gerdale, then Myth Drannor, Kythorn 18
The face bending over her was a ghostly mask "Sher," the familiar voice said kindly in her mind. "Sha; awaken. Quietly, lass. There is a deed you alone must do."
"Sylun?" she whispered.
"As always." The voice was warm and reassuring. Shar sat up and looked around at the blue, moonlit dimness. One of the horses shifted slightly, but the two Harpers lay still, breathing softly, a blanket thrown over each of them. Sylun stood beside her, a pale wisp of shifting nothingness in the night, like the memory of a white flame. Something called in the woods off to the north, something small and mournful that she didn't recognize. Shar laid aside her blanket, took up her bladeits grip cold and hard, bringing her fully awakeand gat up as quietly as she could.
The ghostly figure beside her reached out, offering something to her. A ring. "Put this on."
Shar did so, her fingers tingling as they touched what was left of the Witch of Shadowdale. Sylun smiled at her reassuringly. "Come."
"I don't know why I do these things," Shar breathed as they walked west into the woods. "I get into more trouble . .."
Sylun, her bare feet walking in utter silence an inch or so off the ground, turned and smiled at her reassuringly. Shar rolled her eyes in response but followed, blade at the ready.
Far, far away ahead of her, a wolf howled. It was answered, from somewhere much nearer, off to the left. Shar shivered and cast another look all around her at moonlit Daggerdale. She must be crazy, to follow a ghost into the woods, away from their camp. She looked back at it searchingly, half-expecting to see another ghostly form standing guard over it while some false shade led her to a horrible, lonely doom.
"Be not afraid," Sylun said softly, as if reading her mind. "Just go well out into that meadow, there, and touch the ring with your free hand."
Sharantyr looked ahead at the moonlit clearing and then back at the ghostly face beside her. "Will I see you and Belk and Itharragain?" she asked.
Sylun smiled. "Of course. We all need to get a lot more work out of you yet."
Shar made a face. "Of course," she replied, a grin playing about her lips. "Silly of me . . ."
" Twae, yes."
Shar shook her head at that, lifted her hand in saluteSylun returned itand walked away into the meadow. The moonlight was bright on the grass, and the night was very beautiful. Shar looked around at it, drew a deep breath, and smiled. Some folk never get to see this.
Sylun's voice came to her, as if borne on an unseen wind. "Plant your blade in the ground before you touch the ring. Don't take it with you.'
She found a spot she liked and stopped, planting her booted feet firmly. Then she looked back over her shoulder.
Sylunk was still standing there, a frozen flame floating in the nightdark under the trees.
Shar took another deep breath, thrust her sword upright into the turf, watched moonlight gleam down its lengthand laid her fingers over the ring.
There was a wink, and the world changed. She was standing in a smaller, darker glade, dim blue moonlight filtering down to her through the tangles and mossy boughs of huge, gnarled trees much older than the woods she'd left in Daggerd ale. It smelled. . like the Elven Court woods, near Myth Drannor.
She looked around, not moving. Mosses glowed eerily here and there, and the trees stretched away into utter darkness all around. She was in the heart of a large forest.
Something winked, softly, between two trees. She stared at it, shifting slightly to get a better view, and obligingly it drifted nearer, sparkling as it mune.
A will o' wisp, beautiful but deadly. Her hand went to her empty scabbard and then drew back. She hadn't a hope, even with her sword. Scrabbling after daggers and boot-knives just didn't seem worthwhile. She hoped Sylun hadn't made a mistake, and that her awakener had been Sylun. Could a Malaugrym take a ghost shape?
Why not?
Too late to wonder now. The will o' wisp, blue-white and awesomely beautiful, shone like a little star in front of her. "Take out thy dagger," it said, in soft, feminine tones.
Shar stared at it for a moment and then did so, never taking her eyes from the floating sphere of light.
"Follow," it said softly, and retreated across the clearing the way it had come. Shar did so, casting a quick glance around as she crossed the damp, fern-studded ground. There was no sign of other life.
The wisp was hovering above a tangle of brambles. "Cut away enough to pass," it told her, "and go down."
"Go down?" Shar asked, but there was no reply. She went to her knees and sawed at the thorny branches obediently, laying them aside in a neat pile as she cut herself
a tunnel. Beyond, there seemed to be an emptiness in the gloom. Before Shar could will her enchanted dagger to glow and give her light to see by, the wisp drifted silently over her shoulder. Its radiance showed her a hole in the ground, half-covered with fern root creepers. She drew them aside and stared at worn stone steps and darkness beYond-
Shar wiped her dagger on her thigh and sheathed it the wisp bobbed approvinglyand put her legs forward, onto the steps.
Then, cautiously, she shifted forward, holding on to the ,edges of the hole, and began to descend. The wisp drifted past to hang just in front of her, lighting her way down those old stone steps. . . down a dozen feet and more, then turning to the rightto avoid the roots of a huge duskwood she'd seen, Shar judgedand plunging down more steeply, another eight steps, before opening out into a damp, stone-floored chamber.
A tomb. A stone coffin stood on a bier before her, almost filling the room. Around it, the walls were of cracked and fallen tiles, unadorned squares that bore no inscriptions, scenes, or heraldry to tell her who was buried here. Their smooth run was broken by the roots that had dislodged some of them.
Bones littered the floor beyond her boots, scattered human bones. She could see at least three skulls, and there were probably more around the back of the coffin. Adventurers had come here to plunder, and met some sort of doom.
Shar drew back onto the lowest step. The will o' wisp winked sharply beside her. "Lift the lid and take the sword within??
Shar tilted her head to look obliquely up at the beautiful sphere. les not a good thing, to disturb the dead." She shivered suddenly, her words taking her back to
someone else speaking that same
voice offering a mocking warning not to try to flee through a crypt in the Underdark.
And suddenly, as the memories so often took her, she found herself back in that glow-cavern with the barbed
lash curling fire about her bare thighs, trying not to scream as she heard the dreadful promises spoken so softly and lovingly by the priestesses who wielded such whips, the loving daughters of Lolth with their crazed plans.
The plans that had kept her alive. Long after they'd broken her, making her crawl to kiss their booted feet at a gesture or command, posing herself to accept the lash automatically when they appeared, they kept her alive. Kept her alive for their darkest plan after they'd slain men who could give them greater pleasureslain them by flogging the skin right off them and then exchanging their whips for long flails with barbed iron bars, or whips with hissing, hungry living serpent heads, to work on the fleshless, moaning shapes that remained.
She was to be bred to a spider. A giant, hairy spider whose limbs bore barbs and saw-edges, whose bulk almost crushed her when they'd experimented, lashing its mandibles together with their whips to keep it from beheading or slashing open the pale-skinned victim chained beneath it, slick with sweat and fear, writhing helplessly.
A spider whose spell-twisted brood would have hatched in her paralyzed body and eaten her from within to nourish themselves into life as manspiders--"biddable driders," as one priestess had called them, her face alight with excitement at the thought. Manspiders who could serve as loyal, intelligent fighting steeds for drow warriors paired with them, in a war against rival drow cities deep in the lightless Underdark.
Sharantyr shivered again, recalling days of pain and humiliation, and nights of eerie terror, as the glowing, gelatinous fungi had crept slowly down the stone walls where she lay chained by the throat to a huge ring in the wall, bedded on hard, sharp human skulls, and flowed over her, their translucent pseudopods covering her with glistening slime ELS they lapped at her wounds and body openings, healing and cleansing her, absorbing her wastes and blood and energy alike, leaving her too weak to work toward any escape.
The touch of jelly or jam on her skin still left her drenched with sweat, and quivering with fearand excitement.
"Trust me in this, and do as I bid." The voice was musical and assured, almost amused. Sher closed her eyes. "Trust me" had been one of the taunts used by the priestess with the strongest liking for her pale-skinned human prisoner. Trust me.
Shar opened her eyes deliberately, swallowed, and stared at the winking globe of light. "Who are you," she asked softly, "that I should trust you?"
"Mystra," came the soft reply, and it seemed that an echo arose from that softly spoken name and rolled across the chamber to recede into vast distances, as if they stood in an immense void and not a small tomb smelling of damp earth and the roots of the forest above.
Shar shuddered. Sylun, she complained in her mind, what have you gotten me into now?
The wisp drifted closer, and the echoes seemed to roll and thunder again in the distance. "Well?' it asked, its voice a sudden challenge. "This is no drew trick.'
Shar shuddered; it must be reading her mind. Oh. A goddess. Of course it could. She could. Shar shook herself, smiled, and stepped forward. "Why didn't you say so?" she asked almost petulantly, as she laid her hands on the cold, crumbling lid and shifted it aside.
Stone grated, and Shar peered cautiously into the darkness within, but the wisp flashed across the chamber to hang where she needed light. The coffin held heaped dust and a wild-weave of cobwebs, but no body that she could see. A scabbarded blade lay in front of her, shrouded in dusty gray webs. Without hesitation she reached in and took it.
A cold tingling ran up her arm, and fear awoke to accompany it. What if the blade turned her into some sort
of monster or visited a curse on her?  What if--Enough,
-a,
she told herself firmly, stowing the blade under her arm to free her hands for replacing the lid.
The wisp seemed to bob approvingly again, but as she turned toward the stairs, it flashed through the air to
block her path. "Draw the blade," it told her.
Shar nodded and held the scabbard out horizontally before her, drawing the sword slowly. It was a magnificent, gleaming long sword, curved more than was the
41.. TV. ............ Mk. 1,;1+
blade seemed to be all of one piece, polished mirror bright and glossy smooth. As it came free of the scabbard, the sword awakened with its own blue radiance, a light that grew and grew until it blazed.
"This is yours to bear, Lady Knight," the wisp told her. Shar turned it slowly, feeling its weight, and replied feelingly, "An honor."
"Indeed." The wisp sounded a little amused. "You may not always feel so. You hold a weapon against the Malaugrym. Return to your camp, and in the morning go down to the bridge that Itharr mistrusted so. There draw this blade, and it will show you a gate that will-transport you to the plane of shadows where the Malaugrym dwell. When drawn, this sword will show you all gates nearby, and work them for you if you will it so. Take your companions and go and slay Malaugrym for me."
Shar took a pace away from the wisp to gain room, and swung the blade experimentally. It hummed as it cut the air, and a delighted smile came to her face. What a magnificent weapon! It matched her as if made for her, and its rippling weight made her feel like a dashing young hero, the excited girl she'd once been when she first sought adventure, long before she'd ever seen the endless Underchirk . or drow.
Shar laughed, her unbound hair swirling about her as she leapt lightly around one corner of the tomb, fencing with an imaginary foe. The blade felt alive in her hands. Yea! With this, she could rule the world!
At swordplay, at least. She turned to look at the will o' wisp, and asked, "Will I see you again?"
"No," came the flat reply, and to Shar's ears it sounded sad. But when the voice came again, it was calm. "No mortal shall ever see this aspect of me again in Faeran. It is a fading thing I inherited, a shell of ghosts and shadows. I cannot wear it well."
The wisp drifted toward the stairs. "Go now, Sharantr. Make us all proud of thee."
As she went up into the glade and saw the white glimmering ring that must be the gate to take her home, Shar thought she heard a familiar old voice, a mere whisper behind her. "Well said. Very well said. Yell do fine."
Elminster? She was still frowning in excited puzzlement when she came out into the moonlight of Daggerdale and found %dune waiting for her.
* * * * *
S'ilverymoon, Sythorn 18
Milhvar's spell tapped into existing gatesor so the sinister, smiling Shadowmaster had told them. Huerbara didn't trust him one whit, but she had no choice but to place herself in his hands, and watch him like a hungry hawk for any sign of treachery.
It would come. Oh, it would come.
Hopefully not on this foray . . . probably not. The cold truth was that the three of them weren't important enough to be rivals whom the Shadowmaster might want to eliminate. But enough speculation. -
Milhvar's whirling magic had just taken them somewhere dark As the spell-motes of the gate they'd linked into scattered around them, the three cloaked Malaugrym stared around, looking for any sign as to where they might be. Their mission was to find Alustriel, the High Lady of Silverymoon, and attack her. They were to slay her if possible, but the real test lay in finding out how much the cloaks concealed and protected them against her.
First to find her.
Ignoring the startled gasps and hissed warnings from behind her, Huerbara strode across the darkened chainber to the only door she could see. This had better be Alustriel's palace, or Milhvar would soon be hearing about his overblown cleverness.
The door was unlocked. Beyond stretched a short
passage whose left-hand wall soon became a row of tapestries, implying a larger room in that direction. Huerbara walked forward without hesitation.
Behind her, the two male Malaugrym exchanged glances, shrugged, and followed.
Voices were coming from beyond the tapestries. Male voices, at ease.
"She never seems to know what she wants to buy, but she always comes back with something. Or rather, a pile of somethings." A glass clinked down on,a table.
There was a chuckle. "You can sell more to a woman who knows not what she wants to buy but is restless to have new things in her hands."
There was a snort. "You make her sound like a brothel cruiser, not the lady with the largest Collection of onceworn gowns in Silverymoon."
"And you want to wed her. Have you thought this through?"
Kuervyn and Andraut smiled silkily at each other and turned toward the tapestries, hands going to the slim blades they wore at their belts.
Huerbara shot out two long, silent tentacles to wave them to startled stillness. She glazed at them and gestured down the passage, beckoning them on. There'd be time for such amusements later, unless, of course, they had the whole palace after them by then.
Bringing two such flamebrains along on this mission could prove very dangerous to her, she reflected, following the passage through an archway and into the rear of what seemed to be a gigantic wardrobe.
And then a slim hand reached out in front of her and unhooked a dust-shroud-covered gown from its place on the crowded bar Huerbara smiled tightly and shot a slim tentacle around that corner, high up. Eyes swam down the tentacle to see her quarry, and guide that appendage around its throat before it could utter a sound.
Huerbara stepped around the corner with a pleasant smile on her face, another tentacle snaking out to take the gown from suddenly desperate fingers.The maid whose throat was wrapped in her tentaclea pretty
wench with great dark eyes and a pert little lace-framed bosomstared helplessly at her for a few moments in terrified bewilderment before Huerbara broke that pretty neck with a deft twist, and the light in the eyes faded away. Then she handed the body back out into the passage to amuse the two louts, felt them take it with low laughs of anticipation, and shifted to match the maid's form perfectly.
A moment later, Shantra the Underdresser stepped unconcernedly out of the wardrobe room, dust-bagged gown in hand, and looked up and down the corridor she found herself in. Two magnificently mustachioed guards in opulent uniforms were seated before a closed and barred door at one end of the passage, playing leapknights at an ornate octagonal board. Light, soft voices spilled from two open doorways in the other direction.
The guards looked up, so she gave them a half-smile before she turned away. One guard looked back to his game immediately, but the other guard frowned. His eyes narrowed as he watched Shantrahis beloved, who'd never looked at him with such pleasant lack of recognition beforewalk away and pass through one of the doors. She'd never walked like that, either, all sinuous glide and none of her happy bounce.
He got up, saying softly, "A moment, friend Silder. be right back, but come with your sword if I bellow."
He left the other guard frowning up at him and went down the passage as quickly as stealth would allow, hand on the hilt of his blade.
In the room he was approaching, three ladies were looking up at the maid with surprise on their faces. "Why, Shantra, what's amiss?" one of them asked, gliding forward.
Huerbara looked at her as if bewildered. "L-lady?" "The dust bag. . . why've you brought the gown still in its dust bag?"
"Ohh," Huerbara said, trying to look confusedeasy enough, she thought wrylyand bent her knees, sagging forward and clutching at her head. "I feel . . . not right ... I . . ."
"What befalls?" The quick, anxious male voice came from behind her. One of the guards?
"Shantra's been taken ill," said a voice very near, as gentle hands took her forearm and elbow and guided her to a stool.
"That's not Shantra," the male voice said firmly. "Her walk is wrong, and she didn't recognize us?
"And she spoke differently," said one of the women slowly. Then the third woman said quietly, "Speak, Shantra. Name us?
Oh, shadows take them! Not three rooms into the palace! She shook her head. "I . . ." she said, trying to sound broken.
Then she heard the soft swish of a sword being drawn. Huerbara turned toward the guard with a snarl, extending her breasts into tentacles to hold his eyes, while a third shot out to take his feet from under him.
"Dopplegangerr he bellowed, fear and anger in his eyes as his sword slashed down. Huerbara struck it away with her tentacles, shifting her innards hastily to avoid a lucky blow, and then stiffened with a real shriek of pain as something slim and hard went through her from behind, burning ...
She looked dully down at the sword tip protruding from her breast and saw that it was silver. Huerbara wept in agony and did what she had to do, let half her body fall away and be lost to her. With the only arm she had left, she firmly grasped the belt buckle embedded in her flesh and said, "Brathaera."
As the guard battled her writhing tentacles, she simply melted away. He crashed forward helplessly into the wall as Silder came charging around the corner to find three ladies staring down at an amorphous mass on the floor that had one human arm protruding from it and a slim silver sword cane through it.
doppleganger, here?"
The double-chinned, haughty lady who held the handle of the sword cane shook her head. "No. Much worse than that.'
"Oh?" Silder asked, raising his eyebrows. "And how
would you know, Mistress Iraeyna? Fought many monsters in the nurseries of the palace, have we?"
Mistress Iraeyna, Chief Dresser of the Ladies' Wardrobe, fixed him with cool eyes as she calmly undid the front of her gown and pulled the fabric wide. The two ladies on either side of her gasped.
Both guardsmen gulpednot at the formidable bosom exposed to their gaze, but at the black silk waist-corset just beneath it. Its straining fabric held a too-large tummy firmly in check and sported a silver pin: a harp between the horns of a crescent moon, surrounded by four stars.
"You know this, Silder? Haerarn?" she asked crisply. Both guards nodded dumbly.
"Then follow my orders, as the High Lady's decree binds you to. Into that wardrobe! There may be others and suspect everything of being a foe, from stool to garment. They're shapeshifters far more deadly than any dopplegangers! Strike to slay, and thrust a silver piece into any wound you make, if you can!"
She bent swiftly and retrieved her sword cane. As she strode forward, Mistress Iraeyna snapped back, "Dansila and Ormue, go straight out that door and lock it behind you. Take your keys and don't tarry for anything! Go to Lady Amathree. If any guards try to stop you, tell them it's Harper business and order them to escort you. If you can't find Lady Amathree, ask for Alustriel herself. Say that there are Malaugrym in the palace! Got that? Malaugrym!"
The wardrobe door banged open, and Silder and Haerarn burst into the room. Silder's eyes were wide with amazement, and Haerarn's were wild with the awful realization that he probably wouldn't find Shantra alive.
It was worse than that Her body was dancing between two laughing Malaugrym, suspended on tentacles that ran through the maid's corpse from one body opening to another. As they commented on how odd or delectable this feature or that organ looked, the Malaugrym were devouring her. Swooping tentacles that ended in eel-like jaws
were tearing at her bared flesh, and blood was raining down on the dusty floor.
Weeping, Haerarn charged savagely into one shapeshifting monster, and Silder gulped and cautiously approached the other. Mistress Iraeyna strode forward and simply slashed a tentacle with her sword cane. The tentacle writhed and flopped in convulsions, slapping the floor, and she stepped past it and drove her cane deep into one flowing form. It stiffened, convulsed, and abruptly let go of the choking Haerarn. As he crashed to the floor, his face a dangerous purple, Iraeyna turned toward the other shapeshifter.
It slapped Silder into one wall with fearsome forceamid the crash, Iraeyna heard the sharp crack of ribs giving wayend then was gone. There one moment and vanished the next.
The Chief Dresser of the Ladies' Wardrobe frowned. With pursed lips she whirled back to the first Malaugrym and thrust her silver cane into it repeatedlly until all sign of movement had ceased. Then she sat down on its gray-brown bulk and began to lace up her bodice.
When she saw Haerarn's eyes focus on her again, she said briskly, "Well done, armsman. Now get up and unbar the door, will you? A lot of folk will be rushing in here shortly. Ring for service, too; Slider's hurt. Oh, and you'd better put away that leapknights board before your swordiord sees it, hadn't your
Haeram hadn't managed to carry out more than one of these instructions before a dozen armed men boiled into the wardrobe, weapons drawn.
"Thank you, gentle sirs," Mistress Iraeyna said serenely, "but its all over now. You'd best check along the back passage, though, in case there are more lurking about."
"The day that Swords of the Guard take orders from ladies' dressers," the oldest and burliest s-wordlord told her, his moustaches bristling, "is"
"Belt up and stow it, sirrah," she told him sweetly, causing some of the men who were goggling at the dead tentacled thing under her to look up and grin. "I give you orders by the High Lady's decree."
"Oh, aye, and how did you manage that, with her at the other end o' the palace from here?"
With a sigh, Mistress Iraeyna began to unlace her bodice again.
12
Maushalf ng the
Mabfolk coa Battle
Daggerdale, Kythorn 18
Sharantyr held up the blade admiringly. Its blue outshone the moonlight and turned the center of the meadow into a ring of eerie beauty. Sylun flew out of the tree-gloom toward her, and Shar smiled in welcome and said, "Look what the Lady Mystra gave me!"
Sylun danced around her in the airthe first time Sharantyr had ever seen her do so, rather than drifting or walking along uprightand then smiled and said, "I'm proud of you, Shar. Yet perhaps it'd better be sheathed instead of waved about, here in the wilds by night. What say you?"
Sharantyr sighed and shook her head. "Foolish Shar. Back down to the everyday with a crash."
Sylun chuckled. "Be not so downfallen, Shan Have I called you "child' yet?"
"No." -
"Nor will I again," the Witch of Shadowdale told her, "now that you've faced a goddess and held your bladder."
Shar grinned and shook her head but slid her new blade obediently into the scabbard at her side. Though it seemed far too large to fit there, it went in. Sylun shook her head.
"No. Better back in its own sheath. Don't forget your own blade, either. It's served you well for years, and will Vale
Shar looked back at the blade she'd driven into the Liu& standing forgotten in the moonlight, and blushed. "How could I?"
"Relax, lass," Sylun told her gently. "You've faced divinity and are apt to be mazed in the wits for a while yet. Recover your blade and draw the new one again. There's
something I want you to see."
Shar did as she was bid, and as she held the blue blade up again, she became aware of a flickering white ring in the trees that she was sure hadn't been there before. She pointed at it with the blade, which immediately gave off a satisfied-sounding little hum. "Is that what you wanted me to seer
"It is," Sylun said. "Use the blade to work it. Don't fear, for it will not take you far."
Wondering, Shar approached the ring. It flickered, and the blue radiance of her blade pulsed as if in reply. As she stepped into the ring, white motes of light circled her, making her skin tingle. The blade pulsed again, as if asking her if she wanted to call on it.
She willed the gate to take her wherever it went, and the sword flared a bright blue before her eyes.
When the light faded, Shar looked hastily around. It was warmernruch warmerbut she seemed to be standing under the same moon, at night in an open ruin. The manor!
She looked down and found herself standing in the midst of the campfire, which had been banked over with turf for the night. She sprang back hastily, boots scraping on the stone, and saw Sylun floating into view around a wall.
"Some folk," Shar said sternly, waving her blade, 'have a very strange thing where I carry a sense of humor'
Sylunes light laughter tinkled on a night breeze, and a sleepy male voice said, "All day you have to gossip, and you must do it when honest men are trying to sleep?"
"Belkram," Shar told him smugly, "there are no honest men here, only you and"
"What's that?" Belkram cried, pointing at her blade. "You didn't have that when I went to sleep!"
"Fast, isn't her Sylun observed lightly.
"Not half so fast as he's going to have to be, if I find he's awakened me for no good reason," a deeper, more sour voice said from another corner of the roofless room.
"Well met, Itharr!" Shar said gaily, waving her blade at him.
"Where'd she get that?" Itharr asked Belkram irritably. The Harpers, both propped up on their elbows in the moonlight, exchanged glances and shrugs
haven't a scrap of an answer to that," Belkram said testily. "Tomb-robbing, probably. That's usually how such baubles turn up. But she's been waving it around like a young maid displaying a doll at her birthday feast since I woke up!"
"And still is," Itharr said, tossing his blanket aside. "Where'd you get it, Shaer
"In a tomb," Shar said lightly, tossing it from hand to hand. "Like it?'
"Here," he replied, coming toward her, "let's have a look at it!"
She sprang back, fetching up against a stone wall suddenly enough to make one of the horses snort in its sleep, and told him, "Looking is generally performed with the eyes, Itharr. Only thieves need to "look' at things with their hands!"
Belkram chuckled. "Right enough, Shar. Tell the man." Itharr halted, raising his hands in a gesture of surrender. "Seriously, Shar . where've you been?"
"In the Elven Court," she told him quietly, meeting his incredulous gaze with level eyes, "in a tomb somewhere close to Myth Drannor."
"And how did you find this tomb?" Belkram asked softly, disbelief heavy in his tone. Sharantyr saw his gaze dart to her empty blanket, to be sure he wasn't facing some apparitionor shapeshifter.
"Mystra took me there,' Sharantyr told him, wonder in her eyes, "and gave the sword to me. A weapon against the Malaugrym, she called it, and charged me to use it against them. Are you with me?'
"Shar," Itharr said gently, "we've been with you since we met in a ruined castle by the desert, and watched a crazy old mage kissing a rotten old archlich. We're still with you." He tilted his head to regard her coolly. "But are you sure your wits are steady?'
Sluirantyr held up the blade. In response to her rising exultation, it blazed bright blue fire around her. "You
think I'm imagining this?"
"Well," Belkram told the nearest wall brightly, "it's certainly nice to share the same delusions as one's closest friends .. ."
Sylun chuckled. 'She's telling the truth, Harpers, and she's not crazed. Excited, yes, but meeting Mystra does that to one. .. as you should both remember"
"I believe," Belkram said, getting up and folding his blanket.
"We believe," Itharr corrected, going back to retrieve his own bedding. "So what now? You want us to follow that bright blade of yours through a gate into the castle of the Malaugrym and start dicing them up for morningfeast?"
"Yes," Shar said sweetly. Belkram rolled his eyes and groaned loudly, waking the horses.
"Look. . . we're a mite leery of swords that appear in the nighteven with you holding themand strange tales that go with them, so tell us plainly what you intend."
Itharr grunted. "And then we'll tell you plainly 'no: Or at least, not until morning."
Sharantyr and Sylun laughed together, making the horses snort and stamp. "Well said," Belkram told Itharr.
"Thank you," the other Harper said, sketching a courtly bow.
Sher drew in a deep breath and then let it out slowly. "My apologies, friends," she said softly, "for rousing you. Mystra did tell me to wait until morning. There's a gate to the Castle of Shadows down by the bridge, where you felt so uneasy Itharr. When it's drawn, this sword shows me any magical gates nearby, and works them if I reach them and will it to. Mystra told me, 'Take your companions and go and slay Malaugrym for me.' So here I am."
"Now that I can believe," Bellsram said with a shake of his head and a smile, "because it sounds so unbelievable that it must be what Mystra did."
Itharr nodded, a rueful smile on his face, and said, "I'm forced to agree.' He sighed. 'They didn't tell me there'd be nights like this, back in Twilight Hall."
"They didn't tell me there'd be nights like this," Sylun told him, "back in Elminster's kitchen!'
"Elminster's kitchen? Didn't the man have enough class even to show you his bedchamber?" Belkram demanded.
"Harper boy," Sylune told him severely, "I was referring to when I was a babe, and a different kitchen than the one you've seen. And spare me your jokes about Elminster and young babes, too."
"I'm beginning to realize," Sharantyr said carefully, "just why so few Harpers live long. They get angry swords right through their clever tongues."
Belkram and Itharr both looked hurt. "Critics," Itharr said, "everywhere we go in Faeran, we find ourselves surrounded by critics . .
"Get some sleep," Sylun told him kindly. "We've a castle to conquer in the morning."
* * * * *
Another forgotten ruin in the Savage Frontier, with a side trip to the Flame Void, then the sky somewhere over Thay, Kytkorn 18
'Nothing is worse than promises that are not meant and deeds that are not accomplished," Midnight said quietly need folk who stand behind what they say and do. Such as Azuthif he survivesand you."
They clasped hands then, the man and the goddess. Both were white, drenched with sweat, and shaking. Long they had lain side by side, hands clasped, while Elminster's memorieshis long road with Mystra, and what of her secrets and power he heldpoured into Midnight, and she grew old and wise in a day and most of a night.
They walked out of the tomb together, an old, longplundered tomb of Netheril whose stone biers had served the living as couches. If anyone saw them emerge, they did not tarry to offer a challenge.
Midnight wiped her mouth as if she'd eaten something
foul. "I. . I've swallowed overmuch," she murmured. "I must go apart and think."
"Seek Evereska, here," Elminster suggested, "or Evermeet, over the water. The elves will let ye alone. When ye've thought, return and tell me your will. Until then, I'll spend my days as rve always done, darting here and there about Faeran, saying this and meddling with that, slaying here and building there. . . less grand than some godly servants, perhaps, but the tasks get done." He faced her, eye to eye, and said gently, "It may be, when ye return, that yell want me to lay down life and service together, and make room for your own style, and your own messengers.'
"No," Midnight said softly, and then again, more firmly, "No. I shall need your counsel in the ways of Faerun and in plain common senseto guide me for ages to come, or I shall be a worse vtildheart than Talos, Lolth, Loviatar, and Malar have ever been, ruling by whim and wrecking all I touch, ending twisted and bitter, no doubt, or sinking down into madness and despair."
Elminster bent his head. "Then I shall be here, Lady, for as long as ye need and want me. I and all the Chosen, some of them gentler and grander and better than I."
Midnight smiled and laid a hand on his arm. Blue fire swirled briefly around them both. "Truly, I doubt that. You have walked the hard road, been the old gnarly rock, faced the worst moments. You did the work Mystra set you, and did it well. And in all Faeran, there's none of us, god or mortal, can do grander deeds than our duty"
Elminster coughed. 'Yell be turning my head, next, laser, Mystra. Go, and do thy thinking, and I'll try to set thy temples in order so yell find a good gaggle of priests to chant ritual profaniter, litanies yer way."
Midnight giggled at him and then growled in mock severity, 'By me ever-thunderin' vitals! Away with you, mortal! How canst I maintain my godly dignity when you mock me so?
Elminster grinned and scratched his head. "I've always wondered that, myself, lass, and"
He stopped, looked thoughtful, and said, 'I'd not
thought of this before, but ye could go to my Safehold. It's well away from the reach of any of these avatars and such, and has all the spells and potions and items ye're likely to want to play with. Two of its doors: the one into the wood with leaves tinged bluethat's Evermeetand the one into the stone passage that leads into a cellar of my tower in Shadowdale, steps away from a flowshaft that'll take ye up to. . . ah, my bedchamber. . ."
Midnight giggled again. 'None of that. I'm Mystra now, remember?
Elminster rolled his eyes. "My reputation, I fear, has been somewhat enhanced by wagging tongues down the passing years."
"Not from what I saw in your memories, it hasn't," the goddess told him tartly. "Take me to this Safehold, then. It sounds ideal."
Elminster nodded, stroked his white beard for a moment, and then extended his hand. "I have but to cast this spell, and"
Abruptly they were somewhere else, but not the cozy room Elminster had been seeking. They were tumbling together in a void, a darkness lit by drifting stars. Midnight was curled up as a small child sleeps, eyes closed and mouth gaping open, face blank and hair streaming like night shadows around her. Elminater laid a comforting hand on her, but she did not stir. Magic that he could not break held her in thrall. The same titanic Art, presumably, that had twisted or broken his evasion spell to bring them here. "To the Flame Void," the Old Mage mused, "but how?"
"By my will, mortal mage," said a voice from close by. Elminater turned and saw a man whose hair and beard were whiter than his own, whose face was unremarkable, but whose eyes and robes were both a dark swirl of sAare, so that he seemed to be the heart of the Flame Void.
Elminster sighed. "And who, sir, are ye?" he asked mildly.
"Some men call me the Overgod . . . others, the Hidden One."
"Ao," Elminster named him, leaning forward with
interest. 'I've much to ask ye"
The Overgod frowned. "I am not here to give ye answers, presumptuous mortal. Ye have tried to hasten the elevation to full powers of my choice for MyErtra's replacement, and take her from Faeran!"
"Magic goes wild across the lands," Elminster said sternly, "and I would restore as much peace and order as I can. 'Tis bad enough for the common folk, what ye've wrought, with hordes and brigands and avatars on the loose, earthquakes and eruptions and typhoons and all. For magic to be stable again, we must needs have a Goddess of Magic. Must I point such an obvious thing out to ye? I sought to take her to my Safehold, to sit and think  ... and learn. Rare for a god, I know, but long overdu"
"Such temerity!" Ao thundered.
"Is the way of mankind," Elminster replied gently, spreading his hands. "Have ye not seen this?"
Ao sighed, and then chuckled. "Enough. So you meant well. So have many tyrantsend godsbefore working their worst."
He raised a hand to point at Elminster and said in a voice of doom, "Midnight I am returning to Faerfm. She will forget what you gave to her, for a time. You I charge never to speak of this, or what she will become, until the Testing is done. And to keep you busy, oh most energetic of mages, I send you to deal withthisr
And the world changed again. Ao, Midnight, and the Flame Void were gone, and Elminster found himself falling through the night sky of Faeran, somewhere east of the Sea of Fallen Stars, where a wall of mountains rose around vast plateaus, and. May!
"Thayr Elminster said in disgust. "The Land of Mad Magee? If Ao's sent me here, it must be to deal with some idiot mage who's trying to make himself a god, or set up some particularly nasty doom for all of us under cover of all these Troubles. Ah, blast all gods and their Overgods, too!"
And then something rose up through the clouds and stretched out shadowy arms to claim him.
Elminster saw how =my miles its arms spanned, and
swallowed. As he felt for his least powerful means of flight, he said through his teeth, 'Allfather Ao, if I live through this little affray, ye and I will be having words!"
And then the shadowy figure howled, and from its mouth leapt ravening magics to claim him. Ah. Of course. Two spells at once, to his one. Just another little job for Elminster.
The Old Mage snarled and selected the best spells he could think of, under the circumstances. And then the shadowy hands closed in around him.
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Sythorn 18
Another three Malaugrym stood waiting impatiently, striking dramatic poses, hefting their forearms, and patting at where their weapons rode, as Milhvar delivered his little speech.
"The Shadowrnaster High had great hopes for this project. Try not to let him down, but above all else we want you back safely. If anyhhing goes awryanything--touch your belt buckles and will yourselves back to us. Even if the foe is within your reach, or you're just a blow away from a victorious finish, break off rather than be taken or slain. There will be other forays, other chances."
The three kin nodded curtly and went on with their restless posturings. Milhvar smiled bleakly. If nothing else, testing this cloak of spells would temper some of the untried blades among the blood of Malang, and break off others before they wasted much more of the time and attendon of their betters.
Out of this lot? They were all so arrogant, they just might make it. Or considering the way they swaggered through things, they might all perish at the hand of some half-asleep mortal guard with a rusty halberd. Taernil was a lean, dangerous type, and knew it. If he lived, if he stayed Huerbara's partner, they could be trouble together or the best pair of Shadowmasters to rise in a long time.
Balatar was simply a bad, wild one, who loved cruelty and killing too much and taking orders too little. He was the only one, so far, who'd openly sneered when Milhvar invoked the memory of Dhalgrave. Hmmph. TO the waiting grave with him!
Jarthree was a cold, controlled one. She always looked through you as if she knew just what you were about, and had already planned your doom, but it was all manner and nothing behind it. Yet.
Keeping his face bland and his voice calm, Milhvar instructed them to willingly draw at least a drop of their own blood with some sharp part of the shape they wore, and signaled the Shadowmaster mages to weave the cloaks.
The lengthy chanting and gesturing began. Milhvar watched the three carefully, wondering who'd perishor prevailon this foray. They were off to Blackstaff Tower this time, a far stiffer challenge than the first three had faced. The cloak of spells hadn't helped a whit against simple guards and servants who happened to have luckthe luck of a little silver weaponon their side. This time, it'd be more magic against magic.
The cloak of interwoven spells was more complex than it needed to be, and far from stable. But then, no Malaugrym had ever worn invulnerable armor into battle, and these three arrogant younglings had no right to be the first.
The shimmering and dark singing of the completed cloaks mounted into the air and Milhvar was pleased to see that at least 'raernil had the wits to look momentarily impressed.
Folding his arms, Milhvar of the Malaugrym stepped forward and cast the "secret spell" thrice, linking each cloak to its wearer through the shed blood.
"You are ready" he said calmly. 'Stand together, so my next spell can take you all as one."
"Take us where, exactly?" 'raernil snapped, trying to assert mastery of the situation.
"To a gate that links Blacketaff Tower with Evermeet, most likely," Milhvar replied gravely, "though there is
some small chance that you'll be drawn to one of the other gateswe know of at least threethat open into Blackstaff Tower from other places in Faeriin and elsewhere. Try not to get lost."
"Don't patronize us, old one!" Jarthree snapped.
"Oh, you'd be in far worse straits, were I ever to do that," Milhvar said softly, and was rewarded by seeing Balatar blanch and Ja.rthree looking just a little unsure of what insult she should hurl back at him.
While she was still sorting through those she had ready, he brought his hands together with a smile, whispered the word that launched the gate-link spell, and said benevolently. 'Go now. Bring glory to the MalaugrYm."
* * * * *
Daggerdale, Kythorn 19
"I hope the horses'll fare all right," Itharr said anxiously, watching them trot purposefully away into the woods.
"They'll be fine," Sylun assured him. "One of my woodland friends is watching over them."
"Don't worry about them," Belkram said, shouldering the two largest saddlebags, the ones holding the food. "Spare some worry for us. We're the ones undertaking a madwoman's mission into the very fortress of our foes. It'd be crazy if these villains dwelt in Faertin, and didn't have mighty magic and the power to change shapes at will. As it is, it's sheer carve-our-tombstones insanity time!"
Sharantyr sighed. "Was he always this cheerful?" she asked Itharr, "Before he fell on his head, I mean."
Itharr blinked. "The first time, or the second?""Bah!"
 Belkram said. "Doet thou respect my trenchant view of the whelming you've undertaken? Nay! Well, then. Ready? Away!"
'That's more what he was famous for, hack at Twilight Itharr said. "The bold rush into oblivion, I think
they called it, in tactics lectures."
Sharantyr looked at him, wrinkling her brow. "You had lectures at Twilight Hall?"
"Just to separate the feasts," Belkram called back to her. "And the org"
"Ahem!" Itharr called loudly. "Hey, there! Brave cornpanionhoy! Come back here! The lady with the blade is here, remember?"
" "I'would be best, I think," Sylune said quietly from the handsome ranger's breast pocket, "if you calmed down, Belk, and did just that."
Beare= looked down. `Thank you," he said quietly. "For the advice?"
"No, for calling me 'Belk' instead of 'Harper boy' or the like. It's ... good to hear."
"My apologies, Belkram," the stone said. "Chide me as I chide thee, if I seem too high and mighty. It was the way of things in speech, when I was young. Elders spoke down, and others looked up." Her voice became dry. "It seems the world has changed."
"As always, lady," he muttered as they rejoined Itharr and Sharantyr. The three stood looking at each other, bent under the weight of their saddlebags, and then down at the softly singing blade in the lady ranger's hand.
"Ready?" she asked softly.
"A moment, if you please," Sylun's voice came to them. "It would be best if you kept me a secret until I am most needed. So speak not to me, or of me, whenever possible."
"Aye, good thought. Agreed. Yes," the living three said, voices mingling, and then Sharantyr asked again, "Ready?"
"Away!" they shouted together, and the blue blade flashed. The tingling that had been rising around them took them all, and they were .. . gone.
The lopsided bridge looked as lonely and forgotten as ever, for a time. And then dark shapes came loping down through the trees in some haste, golden slanted eyes looking balefully this way and that, and padded across the bridge, sniffing suspiciously.
Abruptly one barked and headed along an unseen trail, shoulders hunched and moving fast. The others poured after it, picking up the scent themselves, only to circle to an uncertain halt and lift their heads in puzzlement. They cast around and then loped up the hill to the manor, only to come reluctantly back down the hill, following three scents, to the same spot.
One wolf rose on its hind legs and then seemed to glow, gray furred and tall, rising into. . . a naked man. He peered around at the bright morning in Daggerdale and shrugged. The wolf next to him rose into the shape of a long-tressed woman and looked around in turn.
"The horses ran free," she said in irritated tones. "I scryed them to be sure the humans weren't with them, cloaked in magic, butnothing!"
"I know that," the man said, growing wings. "We'd best take to the skies and look again. Trails can't just end like that. They must have flown away on something!"
"What's that, over there?" one of the wolves asked, growing a human mouth and arm to speak and point with
"Maybe they're riding it!" said another, and there was a general flurry of feathers into falcon shape. The Malaugrym leapt into the sky, heading north to where the distant, sinuous shape was flying.
It was unfortunate for some of the younger, weaker kin that the flying beast they'd seen was a wyvern, and a hungry one at that.
But these were dark days in Faerem, and every shadow held danger.
13
Guests ar the BLackstacc
Bleekstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Kythorn 19
It was a dull morning outside the windows of Blackstaff Tower. Storm clouds hung purple and heavy over Mount Waterdeep, and pearly gray sea mists rolled in under them from the harbor. The clop of hooves echoed up from the street below, but the usual cries, rumbles, and other incessant noises of the City of Splendors were muffled. It sounded as if the city were half-asleep.
It was always quiet inside Blackstaff Tower, the velvety waiting quiet of shielding magic that robbed footfalls of their echoes and shouts of their resonance, and gave to everything a heavy unbroken hush. Many an apprentice had fallen asleep while studying in the tower, and many an experiment had ended explosively without disturbing the occupants of neighboring chambers.
Laeral hoped this wouldn't be one of those experiments. With Khelben away in Elturel, sitting in spellcourt over a long and entangled dispute between two feuding archmages, Blackstaff Tower felt empty, like a throne without its king. Laeral was acutely aware that no one but she was on hand to repair things if her two senior apprentices really botched their work.
Tath was overly shy and almost as overly nervous, but his painstaking check-things-and-check-them-again safety precautions had probably prevented a dozen minor disasters thus far. Baerista, on the other hand, was the impulsive, even reckless, let's-try-it sort. Her occasional flashes of brilliance were the stuff of which real advances in Art were wrought. For the first time in decades, Laeral thought that apprentices might craft something of true worth in the tower, advancing what was known to all workers with magic, and not merely go over well-known ground one more laborious time.
Wherefore the Lady Mage of Waterdeep was quite willing to work late at their sides, the night through if need beand she just had.
Laeral stifled a yawn as she saw the morning sun climb past the windows, and turned to peer again at the flickering, shadowy edges of the shields Baerista had devised and Tath was struggling to control.
A strange, leaping. . . well, growth of sparks and bubbling spinamoke was clawing and rebounding around a small sphere of swirling green-gold radiance in the open end of the laboratory, the limits of the wild magic area Laeral had called into being. Normally, 1Chelben forbade such evocations anywhere in the city, let alone in the tower, but Art is not advanced without making exceptions. Laeral had swallowed once or twice and gone ahead with it.
Now her apprentices, who'd not long ago been safely in the realm of excitedly discussing the possible, probable, and theoretical, were elbow deep in a very real, very dangerous, and possibly runaway experiment. Having created the wild magic field, Laeral could do nothing to control it. Had she not been one of Mystra's Chosen, but merely a mortal archmage of mighty powers, she would have stood no chance of reliably and safely banishing it. She stood watching silently, awaiting the disaster that might all too easily come.
Soon, perhaps, for the wild magic WBB tirelessly trying to spread, and Baerista, teeth bared in a fierce grin of concentration, was trying to keep it enveloped in the shields she'd raised, without letting it get free or having the shields collapse. Tath was trying to keep Baerista's struggles to direct the lively shield-stuff here and there from tearing the shields asunder, and was just barely holding his own.
The shield was an amorphous area in which bolts of magical force endlessly and chaotically whirled about, something like the blade barrier used by certain priests, wherein blades of all sorts whirl and flash about. The unique feature of the shield was the tight turns and collisions of the bolts along its edges, which caused a hum-
ming, crackling energy discharge that seemed to repel the chaos of wild magic. Laeral wasn't sure just how this worked, and she knew as well as any of the gods that neither Baerista or Tath had more than hazy theories to explain it, either.
But that wasn't stopping the shield from working, alter a fashion. "Steady! . . Steady. ." Baerista was snapping, sweat standing out on her forehead as she stared at the shield, stretching it by redirecting individual forcebolta. She'd almost completed the englobement now, shaping the shield into a sphere that lacked only a small area of coverage to be complete, but Laeral had more than a hunch that the wild magic would explosively resist being completely surrounded, or the shield itself would collapse through ever-increasing instability.
As if to confirm her fears, the hum of the shield began to climb in pitch, rising steadily into a scream. Tath blinked away sweat and hissed, "Slow down, Baera!" It was the first time he'd dared speak so, and betrayed just how nervous he was about the shield's survival. His arms were trembling as he conjured spell-hooks and murmured wardings, struggling to hold the flashing webwork of bolts together.
Not good. Laeral looked to the ceiling to be sure the vent hatch to the roof was unlatched, so any explosion could roar skyward and not burst out sideways to hurl fragments of Blackstaff Tower into nearby buildings. Satiefied, she glanced again at the windows and murmured the word that brought plates of stone and of metal sliding across them, walling out the world. It was crucial that nothing disturb them now.
*****
A closet door swung noiselessly open somewhere in the cellars far beneath Blackstaff Tower, causing an alarm to flash. Ushard of Athkatla frowned at it in annoyance and passed a hand over the sphere, causing it to wink out. Elminster or one of the more restless wizards of the Alliance come visiting again, no doubt. He muttered a word
and looked at the scrying stone in time to see Rylard of Neverwinter cross the chamber, waving merrily at Usharcl, and vanish toward the stairs, followed by a pair of patrician, gray-bearded master mages of that city whom Ushard hadn't been introduced to. They nodded impassively in his direction and followed.
Well, if they'd come to talk to Rhelben, they were going to be right out of luck. Too tiggarty bad, and all that. Ushard shrugged and turned back to the forty-third voltam of Pelmurt's diaries. In the long and yawn-inducing account of the eighth magefair, Ushard was sure crafty old Pelmurt had hidden some clue as to just how he had opened The Door Obler Had Forgotten and got into The Lost Library of Funderdelve, where Eltaran Earthshaker and six other powerful mages of Netheril had stored their spells.
But where was the clue? Was it in the catalog of names given as winners of the illusion-crafting contest, in which six names appeared, but only four prizes had been awarded? Or was it in the description of the victory feast that followed, with its wealth of attention to smells, colors, and shapes of the food served?
Hmnim. "Blurturt," Ushard said rudely, uttering the ancient Sword Coast obscenity with crisp gusto, and drummed his fingers on the desk top. It was here on these few pages somewhere, he just knew it, but going from a certain inner feeling to finding and opening that fabled door was a journey that ranges had failed to make long before Ushard had seen the route.
Blurturt indeed. Ushard bent forward to read the alltoo-familiar passages again, hoping that somehow what he was seeking would leap up and grab him by the throat.
Of course, even lowly apprentices should be careful what they hope for.
Had Ushard watched the image in the saying stone an instant longeras he was supposed to, for it dimmed only when the closet door that had activated it closed againhe'd have seen the spectral doomguard emerge from the door frame and follow the two master mages.
And he'd have known that they weren't what they seemed to be.
Had Ushard been attending to the scroll-copying he'd been assigned to do, he would have noticed the glowing globe over his desk bob and dim for the briefest of moments, and known that the dumbwaiter had been called down from beside the desk (where it was holding his evening snack of mulled cider, smoked oysters, and a melted-cheese-sliced-pickles-and-mustard hunnow cold because he'd forgotten them) to the nether regions.
Had he cared about welcoming uninvited guests and summoning Laeral to receive them, as he was supposed to do, Ushard would have wondered why they hadn't come up the stairs, passing through any of the various detection fields and screening spells, and wondered about the eccentricities of six-foot-tall mages preferring to somehow fold themselves into a square box about two feet long on a side to ascend into the tower instead.
And had he possessed half the hrain he thought he did, Ushard would have slapped every alarm he could lay hands on when the dumbwaiter's door opened by itself to reveal a very squashed bun and a complete lack of both oysters and cider tankard. As it was, he glanced up, frowned, and said "Damned ghosts. Why can't they go bother the girls? At least they'll scream."
He'd actually turned back to his book, whistling the melody of "She Was Only A Mermaid In Waterdeep Harbor" between his teethbadly off-key--when it struck him that something odd might be going on.
A moment later, he concluded that something most definitely was, as his book erupted into a pair of steely talons that shot up and grasped him by the throat, propelling him firmly backward away from the alarms.
His back arched painfully, Ushard of Athkatla fought for breath, choking and flailing his arms futilely ahout, flapping hands that might one day hurl spells to humble all known Faeriin . or might not. The gods weren't telling.
An instant later, the chair and Ushard overhalanced and crashed to the floor together, but the talons merely
closed, tearing out the apprentice's throat. His body bounced and flopped once as everything faded, and then his eyes brightened. All that rhapsodizing about frog salad! The name of the frog was really . . . But he had no throat to speak, and there was no one to hear, and he was sinking into darkness that rushed in from all sides, and
"I believe that melody, properly sung, goes like this," an icy voice told the unhearing apprentice. But a second voice interrupted the speaker with an urgent, "Ware, Taernil! Behind you!"
Rylard of Neverwinter was rapidly ceasing to look like himself and more like Taernil of the Malaugryin, even before the intruder spun around to face the spectral guardian rising from the underside of the dumbwaiter. The box was rising up its shaft despite its open door.
"Stop that thing!" Taemil snarled, meaning the box, but Balatar's arm grew into a spike that rushed across the study with impressive speed to pin the guardian to the wall.
"Hahl Die, bone-bag!" Balatar laughed, enjoying himself immenselyand then his laughter twisted into something else.
If the guardian had been solid and tangible, it would have perished on the spot. Instead, it merely let the Malaugrym's arm pass through it and coalesced around that arm, eating away at the flesh with its chilling unlife as it extended its own ghostly arms into overlong scything blades and began to hack at Balatar.
" He howled and shrank back but couldn't get out of the guardian's reach without sacrificing the large part of his body that he'd poured into making the spike. Though he was retracting that spike as fast as he dared, the undead thing was riding on it, refusing to let go, and eating away at it steadily.
&dates son of Alcarga had never felt such agony before, nor had he felt the cold clutch of real fear. He collapsed, shaking, and Taernil looked at him in disgust. Then he met the gaze of the third cloaked Malaugrym and snarled, "Come on! If we tarry here to help him, the
whole tower'll be roused and come down on us. Through this door!"
Jarthree stared at him, then down at Balatar, and then lifted her head and nodded, shedding the last of the dignified white beard and stately dignity of a master mage of Nevenvinter. She frowned as they went through the door together, leaving a sobbing Balatar to his fate. He began to shriek and curse them as they went, and Jarthree jerked her head back at the noise and complained, "I thought doornguards couldn't do that."
"It's not a doomguard. More a watchghost, I think." 'raemil frowned as the curses behind them died into incoherent moans, and then shrugged and grew two tentacled arms to probe ahead of him as he crossed a darkened parlorwhere a trio of driftglobes helpfully brightened into soft life and then faded again as they hurried pastpulled open another door, and mounted a circular stone stair. "There're probably other strange things ahead of us," he added helpfully. "Besides Khelben, I mean."
At the sound of that name, something thrummed nearby, something just above them. They hurried around a bend, ascending, and saw what it was.
The stone pillar that formed the heart of the stair broke off cleanly beside a certain glowing stone step, and resumed again perhaps eight feet higher. In the cylindrical gap that should not have existed (without the staircase collapsing!) floated a vertical black staff. It was covered with runes and gnarly protuberances studded with small silver glyphs and inset metal studs. Tiny lights winked here and there down its sinister lenghh. Its power hung heavy and silent around it. The very air tingled.
"The Blackstaff!" Jarthree's exclamation was a hoarse whisper of longing, and without thinking she reached forth an impossibly long, growing arm to seize the ebonhued staff
Taernirs tentacles struck her arm roughly aside. "Are you mad? It inikht burn you to nothing or call Khelben to itself if touched by anyone but him! Don't you know how
suspicion-crazed human wizards are?"
"I know how suspicion-crazed Melaugrym mages are," Jarthree replied, with the first smile Taernil had ever seen on her lips.
He shook his head. "Then you know you shouldn't touch it. Don't. . . just don't." He advanced cautiously and added, "We'd better not touch this step, either. It might awaken anything."
Jarthree sighed. "We're here to slay Khelben if we can, rememher? Stop shying away from mere traps and shadows." Her tone was cold and scornful. She sounded almost bored.
Taernil looked back at her sharply, his lips thinning. "These `traps and shadows,' as you term them, could trammel us just long enough for Khelben to call on any number of friends and guardians. Milhvar's precious cloak didn't save Balatar from the first undead he met with. I don't trust it to make us immune to everything the Blackstaff can throw at us!"
Jarthree waved a dismissive hand. "I merely meant that we'll do best if we strike quickly and keep moving. These are only mortal mages. They can't possibly be as powerful as Milhvar, or"
"Oh, no? Then how did just one of them kill so many kin that Dhalgrave kept us out of Faeran for centuries?"
And with those grim words Taernil launched himself up the last few stairs and into the room beyond at a dead run, his arms widening into glide-fins to allow him to cleave the air in a clean turn as he swept in, hands raised to hurl destroying magic.
The end of the room he was so grandly menacing contained a simple but large bed, with maroon bedding and a dark, polished wooden headboard. A pointed hat hung from a hook on one side of it, and something slim and silky hung from the corresponding hook on the other side. A single forcebolt crisped whatever it was before it could stir to strike, as the rush of Taernil's charge brought his feet into contact with the headboard.
He kicked at it and rebounded in a backward somersault to land catlike, facing the bed. Jarthree sloped her
body into something ropelike to get out of his way and
said dryly, "I'm sure the lady mage's best black silk stockings were very threatening ."
Taernil whirled to face her, hot death in his eyes. "Do you mock me?" he demanded.
Jarthree shrugged. "I'd call it only a lighthearted observation," she said easily, "but if you're so desperate to dominate me that you must press a challenge here in the heart of a hostile wizard's tower, perhaps I should leave." Her long-taloned hands went to her belt.
"No!" Taemil said quickly, too quickly. Jarthree's slow, catlike smile told him that she'd taken her measure of him and knew the real interest behind his seemingly casual glances at her. He grimaced and turned his head away, then straightened with a snarl to fix her coolly mocking gaze with his own hot stare.
"While we're here, with Milhvar judging what we do," he said heavily, "the only course prudence allows us is full cooperation. Do I have your agreement on this?"
"You do," Jarthree said simply, and the catlike smile was gone.
"Then let us be about it," he hissed, and his skin bulged out into plates as rugged as armor. As he strode to the door facing the foot of the bed, his form broadened until an umber hulkwith the long-fingered, nimble hands of an elven conjurer and fingertips to match those of the apprentice he'd strangled downstairslaid hands on the ring in the center of that door and pulled.
The door swung out and up, revealing a swirling blueness beyond. The two Malaugrym stared at it, startled to see something so nearly the image of the shadows that swirled about the battlements of the castle they called home.
	Neither of them saw the black staff on the floor under the beda twin of the one they'd passed on the stair wink to life and vibrate in silent urgency, turning over once as it rose a few inches off the dusty floor to hang there, quivering.
Two rooms away, Laeral felt the staff's awakening as it sent a warning thrumming through her body. She glanced quickly around the room, seeking anything that should not be there. Intruders! By all the gods, why now? Then her lips twisted in a rueful smile. Of course, now, because of the fall of all the gods, no doubt.
She closed her eyes and whispered something that made a man half a world away stiffen and heed her. Khelben, she called silently. Oh, my love, where are you?
* * * * *
The two Malaugrym stared into the room before them. This bedchamber was larger than the one they were standing in, and its walls were half-hidden in blue-white mists that swirled amid darker shadows, like the shadows of home. Whoever had conjured up the shadows almost had to have seen Shadowhome, the demiplane ruled by the blood of Malaug.
"It's some sort of trap," Taernil snapped, eyes dark.
In those swirling mists anything could be concealed, but Jarthree suspected nothing more immediately menacing than hanging cylindrical wardrobes were prominent among them. The glossy unbroken black rectangle of a door could just be seen across the room. Between that door and the one they were looking through, filling much of the room, was a huge circular bed floating three feet or so off the fur-covered floor. On its silken sheets sprawled two smoky-gray furry things that raised heads to favor the intruders with unblinking, inscrutable stares. Cats.
Or worse, perhaps. A forcebolt lashed out from Taernil's hand, angled with careless ease to scorch both beasts out of existence at once. There was a flash, a feline voice raised in mild annoyance, and a sudden fury of force that tumbled Taernil back against the foot of the plainer bed, limbs tingling in seared pain. Scorched by his own forcebolt!
Jarthree stifled her mirth before it became audible, which was a prudent thing. A reflective spell-shield.
Well, why not? As the awakened cats rose lazily and stretched, her eyes drifted up to the ceiling and she gasped in half-mocking admiration. "Oh, look at this," she breathed, reaching back with a tentacle to beckon at Taernil.
"What?" he growled, rolling his massively muscled form upright once more.
"Wouldn't you like to have that above your bed?" Jarthree asked him, pointing.
Taernil looked up and scowled. "No," he said shortly, staring at the circle of star-studded darkness. He knew little of Faerein's night sky and cared less, but he recognized the gleaming trail of Selune's Tears drifting off to one side and knew what he was looking at. It was breathtakingly beautiful.
Rhmmph," he said, stomping boldly through the doorway. "I'd rather have one that showed me what I directed it to, like Dhalgrave's scrying portal."
"Dhalgrave is no longer," Jarthree reminded him softly as he glared at the cats, stomped past the bed, and reached for the handle of the room's other door, a door that looked to be made of a single piece of smoothly polished obsidian.
Jarthree faded quickly and silently to one side, shifting her form to look like the blue-white swirling shadows, and took up her place among them.
She was coiling in almost perfect unison with the other shadows when Taernil flung the door wide and launched his most powerful spell into the room beyond. Nine arrow-straight, needle-thin ravening beams of fire leapt from his breast, sizzling across the room into the heart of the strange whirling magic that hung there. Three faces stared at him, two gaping in astonishment and the third grimly expectant.
And then things happened very quickly. The room seemedfull of whirling forcebolts, darting and ricocheting in all directions, with something flashing and writhing in their midst. As Taemil's beams tore into the heart of this confusion, the two startled people were snatched back against the far wall as if yanked by tentacles, and the
grim-faced woman stood serenely facing him, her hands rising out to either side as if tracing an invisible wall. She , did not seem to see him, but rather was staring down his beams, trying to perceive their source. Some of them were striking hershe should be falling as flaming ash! Other beams were striking the whirling confusion of lights and roiling mists, and seemed to be turning into. . . other things.
Tumbling bones and mauve bubbles... boulders and single shoes, many-eyed sea jellies and sparkling, raindewed flowers .
As the beams began to fail, Taemil frowned in bewilderment and hurled another spell, a fireball that should scour that chamber and all within it, leaving him free to face IChelben Blackstaff, who must be in the room beyond.
Behind him, he heard Jarthree gaspa short indrawn breath of utter terroreven before his fireball twisted in the doorway, meeting that whirling chaos of shoes and bones and things, and spilled back toward him, expanding hungrily across the bedchamber.
The woman still stood facing him, her arms a barrier to the expanding wild magicby the blood of Malaug, that's what it was! The magic was all around him now, blowing blue-white shadows away like wisps of smoke to tumble suddenly revealed cylindrical wardrobes to the floor, and grounding the bed with a thump. It whirled Jarthree and himself back into their true shapes, with the shimmering of Milhvar's cloak of spells suddenly gone from around them.
Taernil gulped, then shuddered uncontrollably as a firm hand stabbed through him, parting his flesh like melting butter, to grasp and crush his organs, one by one.
"So now they're sending young Malaugrym to Blackstaff Tower, are they?" Khelbe'n's voice was calm and level, and profoundly unimpressed. 'I'm quite particular about whom I invite into my home. And you, Taernil son of Oracla, would not have been among my first eighty thousand or so choices. Out with your
And as a last, shattering pain exploded through him, those were the last words Taernil ever heard.
"I suppose you're going to plead for clemency for this one?" Khelben asked, eyes softening as he looked at his lady love.
Laeral looked down at Jarthree and then slowly shook her head. "No," she said. "Ushard was a lazy idiot, but he did not deserve to die as he did. This one is the brightest and most dangerous of the three Malaugrym who came here this night. I am learning, slowly, not to let kindness be taken for weakness, and through such kindness let the ranks of our enemies slowly but surely grow. The Malaugrym understand only the cruel use of power and learn only lessons of death. Mach her"
Khelben shook his head grimly and brought his hand down. Jarthree did not have time to scream as her body convulsed once and then slowly rose from the floor, floating toward the conjured fire that would consume it.
As the awareness that was Jarthree faded, she tried to weep, for Khelben had taken his lady's words literally, and the last moments of the Malaugrym were a whirlwind of images of the love and beauty, the things wondrous and exciting, to be found in the Realms. Things she might have had, and now, never could.
Khelben watched the flames dwindle and fade away, going to the same placea demiplane of shifting shadows, with an ancient castle at its heartas he'd sent the dying whirlwind of wild magic. When the flames were gone, he straightened to watch Laeral restore the last of the floating wardrobes to its cloak of concealing mists. She stood quite still beside him, only the stirring of her hair about her shoulders betraying the complex magic she wag wielding. Gods, but she was beautiful.
Klielben took one tress of hair in his fingers and curled it absently, stroking its softness. She turned toward him with that dark smile that still awakened excitement in him, after all these years, and asked, "How fared your spoll-court, my lord?'
The Lord Mage of Waterdeep shook his head. "If I'd had the sense to take my ready-staves with me, I just might have been overcome by the desire to ram them both swiftly upward in places that might have painfully
removed two mages from the Realms, and thereby done wider Faeriin a lot of good. However, my foresight remains weak."
"Oh, I think it does well enough," Laeral said softly, curling herself into his arms as her magic floated them both toward the bed.
"Ah, my lady," he said, blinking. "The--your apprentices! They"
"Have to start learning the most important things sometime," she murmured, her mouth against his.
Ehelben lifted his eyebrows. Then he recalled the spell he needed and brought his hands down, precipitously transporting startled apprentices and indignant cats alike to a room lower down in the tower.
It just wouldn't do, twice in one night, to plunge apprentices elbow deep into a very real, very dangerous, and possibly runaway experiment.
14
Visitors to the Castle
Thay, Kythorn 18
Elminster caught only glimpses of the stars over Thay as shadowy death loomed around him, blotting them out. The smoky clouds of dense gloom were alive and reaching for him. As he frowned and willed his magical undergarments to let him descend at a slightly less precipitous rate, he wondered just what this giant was, who'd created it . . . and why.
Just once, Iwould be nice to know.
*****
Thay, Kythorn 19
It is hard to become a Zulkir of Thay. Someone always holds such a title already and must be willing to give it up voluntarilyor be made to die. A final death, that is admitting of no resurrections, clones, or death-cheating contingencies. As most of the present Zulkirs enjoy the powers their titles bring (if not always the responsibilities) and have honed their magical powersand accumulated allies and magical safeguards, traps, and useful itemsfor centuries, bringing final doom to one is no easy task.
It is quite possible to become a very powerful Red Wizard without ever seeking the mantle of Zulkir, and indeed many "Bloodcowle (as certain mages of other lands derisively call Red Wizards) have no interest in the exposurenot to say dangerof the position.
It is not easily possible, however, to reshape the teach-
ings, habits, and direction of an entire school of magic
without either being its Zulkir or having his full support.
Consider, then, the plight of a man who feels he must
accomplish such an end, and is neither Zulkir nor has much chance of gaining the support of the incumbent centuries-old Szass Tam, ZuBrir of the School of Necromancyor unseating that infamous and awesomely powerful lich, archmage, and master of undead. According to most observers, Szass Tam hasn't sunk into the decadent ennui of many lichnee. He still enjoys besting rival Zulkirs and Red Wizards, and remains driven by an elusive goal: the destruction of Rashemen. This makes both his resignation and destruction unlikelyhis death is irrelevantand leaves a Thayan necromancer who'd like to change the interests of the School of Necromancy in an untenable position, the more so when his tentative approaches to colleagues in the craft are received with cold rebuffs and open suspicion of being an outlander agent or spy.
So he withdraws into apparent bitterness (real) and aimless researches (for show), and behind this mask sets about accomplishing an almost impossible goal: gaining power enough to destroy Szass Tarn and anyone else who stands in his way, and force Thay to follow the road he sees for it. He stages an apparent disaster in his spell laboratory that reportedly weakens him and leaves him disfigured, and becomes The Masked One. Colleagues foolish enough to try to take advantage of his apparently failing powers fall victim to his one real accomplishment, the magical ability to dissolve the personand subsume the powers ofanyone his most secret spell can envelop.
A few Red Wizards vanish, and The Masked One grows in power until he can craft a giant to ensnare wizards. Then he must wait, for he dare not use it openly and invite attack from all sides by terrified Bloodcowls. He must wait until a time of chaos, when wizards can be trapped alone. . . or avatars, falling from the sky!
When the Fall of the Gods becomes living truth, no longer empty prophecy, the Masked One exults in a hidden place and raises his giant to stalk the avatar he's detected roaming They, the mortal who holds the lessened powers of Hoar the Doombringer, Hurler of Thunders. The avatar is very near, and even the lessened power he
wields shames the vaunted might of the greatest Red Wizards.
The giant rises and stretches forth his hand, attracting the attention of the One Who Is Hidden (and therefore unknown to The Masked One and his calculations). Ao deems the giant a creation of evil far more dangerous than the status quo in cruel Thay, and looks for something to foil such a dark scheme. Something that always seems to drop into the midst of troubles in Faeriin . . something called Elminster.
* * * * *
The Old Mage waved a hand to direct his pipe smoke out of his eyes and grunted, "So here's a hearty thankee to thee, Ao, for dropping Elminster into the midst o' things again! Bahr
As these kindly words left Elminster's lips, the giant seemed to see him, turning a head as large as a goodsized castle to regard the falling wizard, and emitting a thunderous rumble. A distinctly unfriendly sound, Elminster thought, his fingers already weaving a complex pattern in-the air. At a certain point, he murmured an incantation that left his pipe behind. As he beckoned the still-smoking item to follow, silver spheres began to coalesce and grow in the air around, like a stream of gigantic bubbles falling to earth with him.
His suspicions were soon confirmed. From the outstretched hands of the dark, menacing mass streamed fire, two lines of eight spinning balls of flame per hand. They loomed up at him very quickly, howling and crackling as they came, and El sent two of his spheres drifting out to meet them. He'd best intercept the fireballs before they could burst. The days when he could serenely survive the fiery blasts of two meteor swarms at once were long gone.
He spun another spell thoughtfully but left it hanging, lacking but a final word to call it into being and send it on its way. Best to wait a bit and let this titanic construct
exhaust a few spells more before battle began in earnest. Above and around him, balls of fire met silvery spheres and winked out of existence together in velvet silence.
The giant destroyed the last few fireballs itselg banishing them to spreading steam by the touch of graywhite rays of conjured cold. They hissed out from its hands like angry drifts of cloud, and Elminster's eyes narrowed. Lesser strikes, so soon?
Those must be one of the forms of a freezing sphere spell. Did the thing hurl only duplicates of the same spell? Perhaps it was some sort of projected image raised by an over-clever Red Wizard, and merely aped spells-in duplicate that the Thayan was casting, somewhere far below.
As silver spheres spun and darkened before him, drinking in drifting cold, Elminster let loose his hanging spell. The ruby ray stabbed down, right between the two whirlpools of darkness that served the giant for eyes. Wisps of cloud blocked his view of its striking, but an instant later, when El tumbled out of the pale, clinging cloudy drift, the giant stood unchanged.
It stepped forward, shaking the earth far below, as if goaded by his spell, or as if it now knew just where he was and intended to finish him. Elminster sighed, gathering silver spheres around him in a falling wedge, and pulled them all to one side with him, to see if the giant would hurl its spells at where he should have been.
It did not. From one hand flashed a spreading arc of lightning, leaping from cloud to cloud in a blinding needle to spear a sphere that Elminster hurriedly thrust its way. The sphere lit up blue-white for a moment, then slowly faded into darkness, flickering once, and was gone.
Elminster barely saw it. His eyes were on the giant's other hand, which had made a throwing motion but seemed empty What could? Then his eyes narrowed, and he shifted spheres into a line, out from himself toward the giant.
One sphere flared almost immediately, lit from within by tongues of fire,, and was gone. A delayed blast fireball.
"So we think ourselves clever, do we?" Elminster asked the night almost absently, and launched his response.
The spell was one he'd always thought unfair, one called "disintegrate" that devoured matter as if it had never been, wiping out struggling creatures and things of beauty alike, visiting such prompt oblivion that El thought it something no mage should habitually use. Ah, high principles. The Old Ma.ge shrugged, and used it now.
One vast arm was his target, to see if an overbalanced giant would fall, or if a one-armed giant could hurl only one spell at a time. He peered into the falling night, and obligingly, the arm that had hurled the stealthy fireball vanished.
* * * * *
Not far away, The Masked One lifted a sweating face and gasped out a heartfelt curse on Mystra and Tymora bothfickle women, to turn their faces away in the moment of his triumph. Now the old man falling from the sky had a chance, when his memories and mastery should already have been flowing into an impatient Thayan necromancer. The Masked One snarled and raised his hands to cast a spell he hadn't expected to have to use.
* * * * *
And in a place of shifting shadows, Milhvar of the Malaugrym stared into his scrying globe and smiled, stroking the shimmering stuff of the cloak of shadows in his fingers. Soon would come the time to use it. Soon.

Thay, Sythorn 19
To a warm and scented pool where several pairs of soft hands stroked a bored Zulkir with oil, there came a sudden commotion. The cause of this commotion rose up,
alarm on his face, spilling silent slaves away from him, and said aloud, "My cloak and towels to the Turret of Stars, at once!" Not waiting to hear their murmured replies, he uttered the word that took him there. Someone was hurling around more magic than any man should be able to harness, out there in the night, in the very heart of Thay! Even if this was no attack or act of treachery, thousands of bindings could be broken! Why had no one informed him? Why was he always the last to learn of such things?
* * * * *
As the stars over Thay glittered and swam, the giant lurched and turned ponderously, raising its remaining arm in silence to point at the Old Mage, who shrugged and began the casting of a firestorm.
The weaving he was attempting was a slow and complex thing, denying it much use on battlefields or in sorcerous duels, but this strange drifting struggle was unlike most duels. This might well be the fire spell's beat chosen time.
The giant struck first. A fiery comet streaked skyward, well above the Old Mage, and burst, raining down fiery death from above. El finished his casting with a flourish and looked up to enjoy the show. He'd not seen a Rain of Fire light up the darkness since three magefairs ago.
And then he saw the spreading rainbow that was his foe's other sally, and muttered a curse of old Myth Drannor.
* * * * *
Thay, Kythora 19
In a tower whose spires stroked the stars, a tall robed figure turned sharply away from the battle he'd been watchingthe wrestIings of a captured couatl and a winged devourer he'd conjured into existence not long beforeand said aloud, "Something's amiss!"
He turned to the west, in time to feel the surge again. Greater magic than he'd ever felt on the move before, even in the battles where massed Red Wizards had together hurled storms at the witches of Rashemen. Greater magic than any mortal should be able to contxel.
Perhaps it was out of all control, or perhaps a god had come to They. The robed archwizard shuddered and tapped a crystal sphere, awakening it to floating life. He must know what doom might be hurtling toward them all.
* * * * *
El willed his undergarments to take him to one side again and thrust himself backward, twisting his fall into an eddy in the air that gave him time enough to cast a spell he'd used before. Bringing the spell up one word short of its close, Elminster fell through the nightmore quickly now, as he willed itand watched the giant's disjunction suck in the spheres of his epuration spell, drinking them one by one.
He glanced up. The spheres had absorbed the entire rain of fire before being destroyed, and he should be out of range of the disjunction by now. He spoke that last word, and silver spheres bubbled out around him once more. Now he had no more epuration spells left.
He turned in the air, his clout and undervest tugging at him in response to his direction, and sent himself on a long glide toward the giant, trailing silver spheres. He had to get a better look at things.
It was the work of but a moment to send a flaring eye away from him, whistling away like a tiny tear of flame. He watched it dwindle speedily toward the giant as the titan's next attack came.
Roiling purple beams that would have wracked and forcibly transformed his body lanced past. Elminster
a-.
flight of his probe.
It plunged into magical shadow and lit up the smoky form of the giant from within. In the spreading glow, Elminster saw the tendrils of conjured matter expanding,
moving slowly to re-form the missing arm, and also saw the flashes of moving energy that sustained and animated the shadowy titan. Fleshes emanating not from a man, but from. . an item, a small bar or baton that hung in the giant's heart, winking and turning as it strove to move the giant to grasp at Elminster again.
Aha. So this giant was being directed from elsewhere. Thatscepter, was it?might be worth a look, if he could ever get to it.
Elminster summoned up his mage-sight as he plunged ever closer to his gigantic foe. "Far be it from me to cast aspersions on your origins, mighty Ao," he murmured, "or even to inquire too closely about such things, notions of blasphemy being what they are, but. Ao, you bastard!"
He screamed those last words as he saw silver spheres crumbling close around him under the assault of an attack meant to transform his body to stone, and a second attack, breaths behind the first, intended to shatter his petrified form.
This was enough, and more than enough. Folk were dying in the Realms while wild magic raged and avatars walked, as he wasted time playing with this ungainly wizard's nightmare. Well, at least there'd be no more spells of open rending sent his waynot now.
At that thought he plunged into the giant's smoky body, spheres close around him. Sudden lightnings raged, but the spheres bought his life with their own, one after another, and held breathable air between them, and he went on.
Down, down, spiraling in the lightning-lashed gloom toward the quickening, rushing lights that marked the consternation of whoever was making the giant move. Silver spheres were falling away like mist before an open flame now, but he was dose, very close. .. and falling like a flung stone, hands outstretched.
Then a sphere flashed into being around his goal, a shimmering, rainbow-hued sphere of light right in front of him, banishing the shadowy heart of the giant like tattered smoke with its power, pulsing as it promised his death.
A prismatic sphere. Thanks again, Ao.
Elminster put his hands back and then swept them together_ sharply before him, and silver spheres flashed willingly past him to their doom, flaring into vivid flashes of red, orange, and yellow as they bored through the deadly multilayered barrier in his path.
The fourth sphere spun past him, expiring in a vivid green flare, and Elminster called on his underthings one last time, bidding them slow his fall. Fabric sawed at all his joints, protesting with raw pullings and tearings that were more felt than heard, and the fifth sphere died in front of him, the blue flash of its passing making his eyes flood with tears.
The deeper flashes that followed shook him soundlessly. Then, through swimming eyes, Elminster saw the crackling scepter turning in front of him.
He put forth a hand and grasped it firmly, saying calmly, "Thaele."
And the world seemed to stop. There was a frozen white instant of pain as he hung motionless in the air, feeling lightings surge through him; then he felt the giant begin to collapse. Abruptly the night sky was gone, and he was standing in a familiar, cozy room more than a world away.
* * * * *
Thay, Kythorn 19
The Masked One shook as the last lightnings roiled through him, and the shadows that had been his titan tumbled and rolled away. Gods curse the Mage of Shadowdale! The scepter was gone, and without it.
The door behind him split from top to bottom with a thunderous crack. The necromancer whirled, snatching at the serpent-headed rod that was his last and most secret defense.
"What're you playing at, traitor?" came the cold question from the light beyond. The glowing head that drifted into the room was as tall as a man, but its features were those of the Zulkir Lauzoril.
The Masked One opened his mouth to reply, but whatever he might have said was lost forever in the crash of raining acids and bursting forcebolts that came through his scrying stone and his secret gate respectively, and crashed together with him at their heart. The chamber rocked, and the necromancer's struggling figure vanished.
As smoke rose from what had been a room of splendor only moments before, the floating head said irritably, "Stay out of this, both of you. I'll deal with affairs that occur on my own lands!"
"We await your starting to do so," came a reply. "All of Thay awaits."
The head raised an eyebrow. "Does it? And how comes your perfect knowledge of this?"
"Lauzoril," another voice said carefully, "has it occurred to you that being Zulkir might occasionally involve other talents than the ability to make clever remarks?"
"We're waiting," the first voice agreed, almost smugly.
The conflagration that followed hurled stony fragments for miles, but Zulkir Lauzoril suspected that The Masked One was long gone. He wondered briefly just what Szass Thin was going to say about this, and decided he really didn't want to approach that dark tower in Delhumide and ask. Whatever the necromancer had tried was done, a failure that had cost him his abode and much of his power. A fitting punishment could wait for latera decade or two, perhaps.
* * * * *
Elminster's Safehold, Kythorn 19
The softly glowing globe that usually hung above the table in the center of the octagonal room had drifted over to one side, to hang helpfully over the shoulder of the white-bearded man lounging in Elminster's best chair, his feet up on the edge of one of the many crammed bookshelves that lined the room. A small array of wine bottles
and half-empty tallglasses hung in the air around him, his rarest and best wines.
Elminster hated uninvited guests, but his expression did not change as his eyes flickered over the scene. He stepped forward with a twinkle in the depths of his old blue-gray eyes.
"You wanted this dealt with, sir?" the Old Mage asked in the calm, cultured tones of a servant as he set the scepter in his hand gently on the table in front of the Overgod. His tone was innocent, but the words hung in the air as firmly as any challenge.
Ao raised calm eyes to meet his but said nothing. Challenge answered.
Elminster met those dark, star-filled eyes steadily and laid the torn remnants of his undervest and clout beside the scepter. "See? Clean," he announced calmly, and waved a hand.
A second chair melted out of the air in silent obedience, and El sat down, swinging his own feet up to the table.
Ao glanced at the scepter, and it disappeared. His eyes flickered for a moment as he considered the implications of the powers he'd just absorbed. Then he raised his eyebrows and his glass together. "Perhaps you should be the god of all magic in FaerCin."
El put his hands behind his head and frowned. "What? Would ye ruin my life and my,usefulness both at once?'
Ao regarded him thoughtfully for a moment and then nodded. "You're right.. . all too often, Elminster Aumar Try to stay out of the grievous sort of trouble that beset the gods of your world. I'd not want to have to return here to destroy you."
He held out a hand, and after a long moment Elminster took itto find himself shaking only empty air.
The Old Ms.ge collapsed into a chair, noticing his wines were all back on their shelf, stoppered and arranged as he'd last left them. "Foosh!" he said in shocked tones. "A "be a good boy' lecture and half my wine gone! I don't think I can aftbrd to entertain Overgods!"
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythora 19
Deep green and serpentine were the shadows coiling around them as three rangers in leather blinked at each other and at their surroundings. It was cool and damp and smelled . . . strange, as if the smells of an old and deep forest were mingled with sharp scents of burning. It was some sort of high-ceilinged chamber or hall, longer than it was wide and built of stone, the massive blocks smooth with age and unadorned.
They were alone, though small things seemed to be alive in the ever-swirling shadows. A sudden flurry of fogs made Sharantyr look down quickly at the blade she held, to find it cloaked in a quickening spiral of concealing shadows. An attack?
"Gentle sirs,' she said warningly, "we may have a problem. I"
Belkram leaned in close. "Sylunes doing it, to hide the blade. Ah, don't put it away."
Shar nodded and looked around again.
"Well," she said, wriggling her shoulder blades to loosen some of the tension, "it certainly feels. strange. Whither now?
"My arm," Itharr said quietly. "It's. .. changing."
Shar heard the tightly chained fear in his voice. His left arm seemed to be growing a row of barbs and shifting from patched and seamed leathers to a bluish far, rising over bones that should not be there.
"Is it happening to any other part of you?" Shar asked, glancing involuntarily down at herself. Nothing looked or felt strange, but .. .
"It'sI'm changing, too," Belkram said grimly, and they all saw that the booted foot he thrust forward had become a taloned, curling claw. He scratched his shoulder with an arm that had begun to sport scales here and there, and muttered, "Can your blade take us home again, if need be?
don't think I want to see a guard's face at the bridge in Shadowdale when he looks at this"Itharr thrust his arm forward, and Shar saw that the barbs had become a
row of curling, questing tentacles"especially not a guard I know"
Sharantyr grimaced. "Does it. . . hurt?" she asked, looking from one man to the other and wondering if she'd soon have to strike one or both of them down. As if reading her thoughts, the blade in her hands lifted a little.
Shar shivered and took a pace away, to get out from between the two Harpers. They gave her hurt looks. "Sylungs not doing this to you, is she?" she asked Belkram. "This isn't some sort of disguise."
"No," he said grimly, shuffling forward. "It's this place, working on our bodies. I guess this is how the Malaugrym became shapeshifters."
"Can you. manager
Belkram gave her a rueful smile. "Have to," he said briefly.
"I'm trying to tell my body what to shift into," Itharr said quietly, "but it doesn't seem to be working. Am I turning blue?"
Shar peered at him. "Not any part of you I can see," she observed carefully, "but"
"Trying to get her to disrobe you again?" Belkram asked, rolling his eyes. "Haven't you given up on that yet?"
The laughter they shared then was a little wild, but the smiles that ended it were real ones that remained as Shar took a few tentative steps across the chamber. "We might as well start looking around," she said.
"Do we have to find this place again, to gate back homer Itharr asked. Shar shrugged. 'I . . don't know. I guess so." She raised the blade, and they saw the air behind them wavering in confusion. After a moment she lowered it. "It will show me gates, I think. . . even here."
"So why isn't there a dear door, or oval, or whatever?" Belkram asked, waving at the spot where they'd appeared.
Shar frowned. "I don't think that gate is there any-
more," she said reluctantly. The two men traded glances.
"Then we'd better go exploring," Itharr said, "or well
never find a way out of here. If we just stand here, either
someone'll find usand no doubt offer violenceor we'll die of starvation!'
"You may not want to wait for that," Belkram told him. "Have you looked at yourself?"
Itharr regarded him sourly. "Now how could I do that?"
Belkram shrugged. "If your eyestalks grow a little longer, you should be able to swivel one around and get a good look at yourself"
"I'd refrain from such talk if I were you," Itharr responded. "You may have started out more handsome than me, but I doubt Shar's going to be overly thrilled with a man whose back is growing a row of breasts, a moving row of breasts . . ."
Belkram tried to twist around to look at his back, but couldn't. He shot a look at Shan "Tell me he's bluffing," he demanded. The lady ranger could only shake her head sadly.
"Why hasn't it affected your Itharr asked, frowning. As he did so, his eyes flickered a deep mauve and began to slide slowly toward red in hue. 'Could it be linked to sex?' Then he added quickly, "No jokes, Belk."
Belkram turned to him as the line along his back moved slowly up his neck and onto his scalp, lifting his hair in an odd-looking crest. "I wasn't planning any," he grunted, "but I think it's more likely the sword. Without the shadow weaving being done around it, it'd be standing in a little gap in the mists, a place these shadows don't care to go."
"They're alive, aren't they?" Itharr murmured.
"Yes," Shar agreed briskly, "and so are we." She strode away into the curling mists, raising the blade like a prow before her.
"Well, for now; yes," Belkram agreed mildly. He and Itharr looked at each other, shrugged, and moved tentatively after her. A slithering sound made them both freeze, until Itharr realized it was coming from the tail he'd begun to grow, whispering along the stone behind him. They traded grimmer glances and went on.
* * * * *
Elminster's Safehold, then the Castle of Shadows, Hythorn 19
"I really must give the Shadowmasters something to think about besides laying waste to Faerun' the Old Mage mused. And then he smiled suddenly and snapped his fingers.
Obediently, in a place of ever-shifting shadows distant indeed from the room where ElmUlster sat, above the unbroken black marble floor of a vast chamber that was never empty, a severed head that looked very much like Elminster's own faded back into view from its stay in otherwhere, winked at a startled Malaugrym striding importantly across the Great Hall, and was gone.
A breath later, in a passage where candles flickered and wavered but never went out, fed by always-circling shadows, Old Elminster's head suddenly appeared. Floating between two pillars, it politely said, "Boo!" to a pair of startled Malaugrym conspirators, spat lightnings that left one shapeshifler rolling about in agony and the -other a smoking heap, and was gone again.
In a chamber where several Malaugrym chanted and slithered, shifting shape in a ritual forbidden by Shadowmasters High for some centuries, a disembodied human head suddenly appeared, floating above the center of the sacred ring of flames, smiling down benevolently at the startled kin of Malaug.
"A sign!" one of them said excitedly, pointing with a ffipper. "A sign!"
"What should we read in it?" another asked, almost suspiciously, as they all gaped at the smiling head.
It winked. " Abandon hope,' perhaps?" it suggested, as the blood dripping from its underside became a stream of silver lances that spun and erupted around the chamber, ricocheting energetically among Malaugrym blood and screams. By the time a Shadowmaster had lifted shaking hands to ward death away, the head was gone again.
"'Twas Elminster," he mumbled grimly to the gapemouthed corpse beside him. "He's back." 
Wisely, the corpse chose not to answer.

TrimuLt at-16 Affaight
The Castle of Shadows, Hythorn 19
Blue-black and sinuous the shadows coiled, rising thigh high around the three rangers as they moved warily down the hall. Soon the parting mists showed them an end wall, and in its center a door flanked by two spitting serpents of stone.
Sharantyr eyed these gape-fanged sentinels warily as she approached, and thrust her sword carefully between them, probing back and forth, but there was no response. They seemed to be no more than lifeless stone ornaments.
Which made a nice change.
"Where shall we head for?" Sharantyr asked her companions softly, turning before the closed door. 'Upward, or down? Head for large and grand rooms, or small and dark?" Two shrugs answered her, so she added, "Is there something we should be looking for?"
"Food," Itharr said brightly. Shar gave him a look, but Belkram held up a hand to halt them while he bent for a moment and listened to the stone he bore. Then he looked up. "We will need water to drink, first, and food eventually," he said, "but I've been told we're not to put anything in our mouths that she hasn't touchedbeen immersed in, whateverfirst. Try to avoid even touching Ivlalaugrym; they know all about what's poisonous to us."
"So no biting," Itharr commented, and added slyly, "Not like our last vitrit to Waterdeep."
Even before Sharantyr could give him a disgustedly despairing look, he'd adopted graver tones, adding, Which brings to mind why we've come. Do we attack everyoneeverythingwe meet? Do we avoid battle if we can, and try to scout about? Do we try to befriend vomeone, to learn all we can or to earn a place here?"
"Perhaps next time," Be&ram added in a small voice, addressing the unseen ceiling, "we could answer a few of these good questions before we leap into the heart of danger,"
Into the rueful little silence that followed, Itharr said, "I like that. "Leap into the heart of danger.' Quite impressive. There's a ballad in that .
"Don't," both of his companions advised, in chorus. He spread teasingly apologetic hands in silence and then gestured at Shar, wordlessly bidding her speak-
Sharantyr eyed both men, seeing several horns growing out of one side of Belkram's head, and small eyes that should not have been there blinking at her from a cavity in Itharr's shoulder. She closed her eyes on these sights for a moment and took a deep breath. Letting it out slowly, she looked at them both and said, "If we begin by fighting, we're sure to be slain as soon as we meet anyone too powerful, or a group. I don't even think we should be talking like this; they might be able to hear. Just act as arrogant as they did, back at the keep, but be casual . . and mysterious.'
"When you don't know what you're doing," Belkram agreed solemnly, hefting his saddlebag, 'that's not too hard.'
Sharantyr gave him a half-smile and a shrug in reply, and reached for the door. As her hand approached it, the door gave way silently, pivoting back into dim shadows beyond.
Sher gave her companions a raised-eyebrows look of wary, impressed-despite-myself surprise and peered into the chamber beyond.
It seemed empty of life, though it held shadows that flickered and clawed at each other in a fitful semblance of life. Blade first, Sharantyr advanced, looking this way and that, and saw that this smaller chamber had two doors to their right and one ahead. A massive metal fish bolted to the far wall spilled out light from its mouth, like a tap that flowed radiant air rather than water. They peered at it suspiciously and then advanced across the room. Something echoed in the mists, far ahead beyond
the single door. . a tapping sound. It came to their ears once but was not repeated.
"They're here, all right," Itharr murmured, trying to ignore the eel-like thing his left arm had just become. "I don't know just where, but they're here."
The other Harper looked at him and sighed. "Act like we belong here," Belkram suggested firmly, "not as if we're creeping around an enemy stronghold."
Itharr looked innocent. "But what if we are creeping around an enemy stronghold?"
Shar chuckled despite herself. The mist swallowed the sound as if it were hungry, and she stopped short and looked around once more. "I feel like I did in the Underdark," she said softly, "creeping around, hoping I'd not be found .. ."
The two Harpers exchanged glances. Belkram laid a kindly flipper on her shoulder and said, "Shield high, Shan We're"
He broke off at the rather nauseated look she was giving her shoulder, or rather, at the part of him that was wiggling obscenely there, well on its way to changing into something else.
Her look was so comical that both men chuckledlong, deep chuckles that built into shaking mirth. Sharantyr gave them both a hurt look.
"Do you two giggling idiots mind?" she asked indignantly.
And the door in front of them swung open.
They hadn't even time to look apprehensive before an apelike, shambling thing with the head of a handsome young man and one hand that ended in a cluster of tentacles moved through the door and headed past them, over toward one of the doors on the right. He gave them a cold glance and then stiffened, turned, and looked Sharantyr up and down.
"Shapes of FaertInians? Are you practicing for a foray after this Elminster mortal, or just having"his gaze traveled back and forth between them, and his grin acquired a few needlelike teeth"a little fun?"
Sharantyr gave him an easy shrug. "A little fun," she
drawled in soft, lazily menacing tones. The Malaugrym seemed to hesitate, and she added pointedly, brushing one arm along Itharr's now-pustuled flank, "Private fun."
The Malaugrym seemed about to say something more but merely nodded and went on. As the door opened, he looked back and was favored with a trio of faintly mocking, faintly challenging half-grins, just the look gelkram had seen on the lips of Elaith Craulnobur, the notorious elven adventurer, in a spell-scene shown to him by a Harper in Waterdeep. Itharr remembered that look from a lady brothel-keeper he'd arrested in Elturel, just before half her girls returned to their true doppleganger forms and she'd started to scream. And Sharantyr would always see the almost-smiles on the faces of drow bending over her, whips in their hands.
Seeming satisfied with what he saw, the Shadowmaster vanished through the door.
"It almost seems as if we know what we're doing," Belkram commented, flexing his right arm, which was lengthening steadily into what looked like a gigantic crab claw.
Itharr nodded. "Just behave as if you know what you're about and have every right to be doing it, and most folk will accept you." He looked critically at his own arms, one of which was a deep red in hue. "A fairly simple deception at heart," he observed. "I suppose that's why so many kings have managed it down the years."
*****
Elminster's Safehold, Kythorn 19
Elminster paced back and forth in the bookshelf-lined Safehold, frowning and stroking his beard. From time to time he lifted his head to stare at one of the room's four doors, noting absently that As had shuffled through the spell-stored animated scenes he displayed as hangings on those doors, and put on display the most alluring of each. He gave one of thema lady who had been dust for almost eight hundred summersa half-smile as he ban-
ished her, shaking his head. "Distracting," he muttered, and returned to his pacing, striding up and down the room, face dark with thought.
"This is ridiculous," he muttered after a time, coining to a halt by the table. "I must know."
He waved a hand. The chamber darkened obediently except for a small point of whirling light above the table, which grew and grew until it became as large as his face .. whereupon it spun a book out of itself and vanished with a satisfied sound.
EIminster took the floating book and stepped on the floor tile that would whisk him at will onto the seat of his private privy. 'Twas time for some serious reading, before some bespectacled twit at Candlekeep noticed this tome was missing, and called on magic to trace it. Oh, he had his own copies of Alaundo's predictions, but the Commentaries of lyrauthar, the book in his hands, was the only text to gather related records, rumors, legends, and testimonials about the Mad Sage's thunderings. Moreover, Candlekeep's copy had been annotated by First Reader Taltro some six hundred years ago, collecting even more useful lore on the Endless Chant and its various fulfillmentsmuch of it errant nonsense, but one can't have everything.
"Oho," he said softly, after a while. "Oh ho ho, indeed." He summoned his pipe with a crook of one finger and sent the book back to its rightful home with a wave of his other hand, rising up through the floor from jakes to study in slow, stately majesty. Tablets of Fate, my wrinkled old behind, he thought sourly. Did even the divine lack taste and inspiration these days?
*****
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
The door through which the Malaugrym had come proved to open into a long gallery, with pillars and a railing on their right. The view over the railing looked down into a shadow-shrouded hall where various robed folk
Malaugrym, presumably, in largely human formstrode back and forth from door to door. A smell wafted up that could only be described as something fishlike being fried.
They did not tarry to watch, for fear of attracting attention. At the end of the gallery, a door opened into a room dominated by a deep, echoing well. They dared not confer in that room, in case the well took their voices to unseen ears far away. So they chose one of the other three doors leading out of the room and found themselves in a little closetlike space lined with benches. A hole in the floor made them suspect this was a Malaugrym garderobe, and useless to them for the same reason as the well room. Retracing their steps, they chose a different door and entered a room with a stair descending in front of them, curving off to the right as it did so.
"What did you make of that cooking smell?" Belkram murmured from at the head of the stairs. "My stomach just growled?
"Is that what I heard?" Itharr asked, eyebrows dancing.
"Belt up and stow it," Shar murmured with menacing softness. "'The question is a good one." As if in agreement, her stomach turned over with an audible sound of protest.
The look she gave them both just dared them to comment, but at that moment someone began to ascend the stairs. Itharr propelled his two companions downward with gentle pressures on their backs, muttering as he did so, "Well, to my nose it seemed like someone frying a gigantic oyster or mussel in herbed butter, and I can hardly wait to sink teeth into it. Seeing what it looks like, mind, stands not so high on my list of dreamy desires."
The Malaugrym reached the large midstair landing a pace before they did and halted to watch them, his eyes glinting in suspicion.
"Who are you?" he asked coldly. "What shapes are these?" And then his eyes fastened on the shadowshrouded blade in Sharantyr's grip and he hissed and raised his hands in gestures that could mean only spellcasting.
* * * * *
Elminster's Safehold, Kythorn 19
Selune sailed serenely among the stars outside the window in the ceiling of the Safehold, and cast her cool light down on the table where, after many long hours, the Mage of Shadowdale still sat slumped in thought. Efrainster stirred as the full glory of the moon cast ivory fire around him, and stroked one of the knots in the richly polished tabletop.
His moving finger awakened an old magic, and a small crystal coffer was suddenly floating in front of his nose. it held a locket, a few exquisitely beautiful earringskings' tears at the end of sapphire spindles, keepsakes he'd given Lansharra and found again after her deathand a lock of blue-green glossy hair. His fingers took it up. This was all that was left, now, of Essaerae, once so young and beautiful in Myth Drannor.
Mystra had forbidden him to use Art on this glossy remnant, he recalled, to try to bring her back. Sitting alone in the moonlight, Elminster turned the silken hair over and over in his hands, remembering dark and laughing eyes in that long-ago moongleam, and nights that stretched softly on forever. . . and he came to a sudden decision.
"Overgod or no Overgod," Elminster murmured, "I must do as I see right, for the good of all Toril."
He laid the hair gently-someone watching might have said reverently-back in the coffer and banished it again to its place of hiding. Then he reached out his foot to a certain floor tile and uttered a word that was all hissings and inbreaths. Under his boot a rune flashed into momentary brilliance, and the tile slid aside.
The tentacles that emerged from the void below were long and delicate, and in their curled tips they held a box of polished, rainbow-hued abalone. Elminster took a circular silk-wrapped bundle from inside the box and thanked the tentacles gravely. They closed the lid and withdrew as softly as they had come.
The silk was black and crumbling with age. From its folds Elminster drew forth a circlet of silver-blue metal that looked almost as decrepit. Setting the crumbling crown on his head, the Old Mage beckoned a crystal ball down from its role as a bookend on a dusty shelf, to float over the table in front of him.
Then he leaned forward and stared into the scrying crystal, and the crown on his brow began to wink with tiny moving lights. The same light danced in the old wizard's eyes as he whispered, "Midnight . . . Midnight . . . Ariel Manx Mystra to be . "
And where she slept under the cold light of Selune's watchful eye, Midnight whimpered in her sleep and twisted onto her side as a gniff voice softly whispered in her dreams and she began to see places, and folk, and things. A tablet swam into her view, and the voice told her "A useless thing, this, but one of three such playing pieces in this game forced on all the gods."
There was more, but the young sorceress had been very tired, and much of it whirled around old memories of ardent young men and older mages she'd seduced to gain their magic. The rest was lost to the sound of the gruff voice saying, "Bah!" more than once.
In the end, she came sharply awake, sweating in terror, with the image of a yawning grave stark and bright in her mind. From it echoed that testy voice, saying, "Beware, lass. Gods who dare not pursue a tablet will not hesitate to use mortals who can, even such a one as .
Midnight."
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
The Malaugrym was swift, and there was no telling what sort of spell he was weaving, so Belltram regretfully shot out his tail, wrapped it around the Shadowmaster's ankle, and pulled. An instant later, a flash of violet radiance washed over them all as the magic took hold, and the two Harpers found themselves swaying and dazed
but in their true forms again, tails and horns and such gone.
Their state made Sharantyr's cold reply to the Shadowmaster's question about the shapes they wore an unintended irony. "Our own," she said crisply, tossing her saddlebag aside without taking her eyes from him.
Suddenly released from Belkram's grip, the Malaugrym swayed but thrust out half a dozen sucker-covered tentacles to brace himself against the wall and steps. He snarled in anger, a snarl that became a lunge of snapping fangs as his neck lengthened with lightning speed. Sharantyr turned her face away from those gleaming fangs and struck at him frantically. The serpentine neck reared back, but once her blade had flashed past, the Malaugrym struck, plunging his teeth toward Sharantyr's breast.
Inches before the shapeshifter's fangs would have touched home, a Harper lunged to the rescue. Belkram's punch glanced off Sharantyr's forehead as it drove the Shadowmaster's head aside, and the lady Knight staggered back as the Harper and the Malaugrym struck the wall together.
The shapeshifter put a hand on Belkram's face to pin his head against the wall, and grew talons to put out his opponent's eyes, but Belkram sat down suddenly and vanished from under the shapeshifter's grasp just as Itharr's blade burst through the Malaugrym's body, sword tip spraying blood.
The Malaugrym merely sneered and stepped back, his flesh flowing away from around the blade to leave it bare. "Mortals in our castle?" he hissed incredulously, and seemed almost gleeful as he added, "There can be only one proper punishment for such effrontery!"
"Death, I suppose?" Belkrarn asked, launching himself from the landing in a kick that drove the feet out from under the Malaugrym.
The shapeshifter fell on the stone steps and rebounded, rising to keep Itharr's blade at bay with a flailing wall of saw-edged tentacles.
"Blinding, dismemberment-and other enjoyable
diversions," he replied pleasantly, pressing forward. His tentacles fenced with both Harpers, and behind the wall they wove, the Malaugrym raised his hands almost leisurely to cast another spell.
Sharantyr set her mouth in a grim line and sprang forward, her blade flashing. Where it touched a tentacle sent to intercept it, smoke rose and the shapeshifter grunted in astonished pain. The lady ranger dove through the hole she'd cut and found herself face to face with the furious Malaugrym as her blade whipped through his throat once, and then back across it again on her backswing.
Blood sprayed her, and the shocked Malaugrym staggered back, choking on his incantation, wisps of smoke curling up from his throat. "Usss---" he hissed. "Oorthhh  . ," and he coughed weakly and shook his head, backing away.
"Do we dare let him go?" Belkram muttered, sword in hand.
ltharr shrugged. "I don't think it prwatch out!" The Malaugrym sank down swiftly into an octopuslike sprawl on the stairs, shooting out a small forest of tentacles that snatched at the ankles of all three rangers. Belkram fell helplessly and heavily, hacking at whatever he could reach, and found tentacles slapping over his mouth, striving to suffocate him.
Itharr went to one knee but caught hold of a stair post for balance, sawing at the tentacles wrapped around BeIkram.
Sharantyr plunged into the heart of their foe, hacking and slashing. Although tentacles rose up all around her in an effort to snatch or twist the blade from her hands and bear her down, she kept hold of her weapon with both hands and cut glowing blue lines of death through ever-thicker smoke.
Where Belkram and Itharr cut the Malaugrym, its cuts flowed together again and healed, but the wounds made by Sharantyr's humming blade gaped open and smoked.
Other Malaugrym had come upon the struggle. One
even descended the stairs past them all by the simple expedient of shifting its body up onto the rail for the few paces it needed to stay clear of the fray. Few of the observers seemed interested or tarried to watch, save one.
He took up a relaxed position against the stair rail lower down and watched calmly as the blazing Malaugrym began to shrink away from the two Harpers, concentrating all of its energies on slashing Sharantyr with barbs it had grown on the ends of its tentacles. As she chopped and slashed those rubbery appendages down to a few, the Malaugrym dwindled and suddenly rolled away from her, down a few steps, to lie asprawl, gape mouthed and very human.
"Impressive," said the new arrival, levering himself up from his elbow to stand facing them. He looked like a youngish, handsome man with wavy brown hair that threatened to fall right over one eye. The only sign that he was a shapeshifter was an extra arm, half-hidden in the folds of his loose, open-necked shirt. A third hand could be seen at his belt, fingers endlessly stroking the pommels of the ranked throwing knives there. Silverbladed throwing knives.
This Shadowmaster spread his other hands in an "I mean no harm" gesture and came up a step.
"Keep your distance," Sharantyr told him, breathing heavily, her eyes afire. The sword in her hand pulsed once, warningly.
"Of course," the Shadowmaster said. "But please believe me, all of you. I mean you no harm. I see that you're mortals and may be unaware of our ways here in the Castle of Shadows. Be advised: This kin you slewPhenanjar by name, if you're interestedwas long a foe of mine. You have done me great good by his removal, and I regard you as friends." He advanced another step. "I would be pleased if you looked upon me as a friend, too."
Shar moved her blade menacingly, and the Malaugrym sighed. "Lady, please! Have I threatened you? Do you look upon every man you meet on a stair, here or in fair Waterdeep or in any inn of the Dalelands, as a foe to be
cut down rather than spoken to? This place"-he waved at the mists around--"is, after all, my home. May I not walk its halls freely? I was, in fact, returning to my own chambers, and I'd be happy if you'd accompany me there as honored guests."
"Guests?" Itharr asked quietly, his voice neutral.
The young man smiled pleasantly. "Guests. Here in the castle, that means you are free to come and go as you please, but are under my protection and not to be mistreated by"his gaze fell to the still-burning Phenanjar at his feet-"those of us with, ah, careless tempers."
"Are you adept in magic?" Belkram asked.
The Malaugrym smiled. "Hardly. That has been my undoing, thus far. Yes, I work at magic and can hold my own in most company, but not here in the castle. You three need not fear my spells. They are not suited for smiting enemies low or hurling stones about in battle. Come. Be my guests. Learn what one of the blood of Malaug is truly like."
He met Sharantyr's hard gaze and shrugged. "You are suspicious of me, of course. Well, then, accompany me for as long as you like, and we'll part when you choose. Of course, thereafter I cannot speak for your presence and purposes in the castle, and some of my kin will... seek to slay you on sight."
"We shall accompany you, sir," Sharantyr said with a smile that touched her lips but not her eyes. "Wall( ahead of me, if you will, but my blade will stay in my hand."
"I would not have it put anywhere else, good lady!" he joked, and stepped smoothly past her, inviting the wary Harpers to fall in beside him with a gesture. "I am Amdramnar, son of Chasra, by the way. And you are-?"
"Hungry," Itharr said with a beatific smile. "And he's"he indicated Belkram, striding along on the Shadowmaster's other flank-"very hungry."
The Malaugrym chuckled. "I . . . see." He looked over his shoulder at Sharantyr, who was walking warily just behind him. "Are they always like this, good lady?"
"No," she replied calmly, a twinkle deep in her watchful eyes, "they're on their best behavior just now."
* * * * *
"Aljal Did you hear?"
"Something about Phenanjar being killed, aye? So who finally got tired of him?"
"Mortals did it, they're saying. Folk from Faeriln!" "What? How did they get into the castle?"
"Talk is it's some plot of Arndramnar's. He's parading around the halls with them now, three of them, and the wench has a blade that burns when it cuts. That's what killed Phenanjar. . . he couldn't heal."
"Really? I'll bet there's more than a few kin Amdram-
nar would like to see her put that sword through. He
gathers enemies the way you and I collect good gossip!" "Aye, that's forwh.aaan?"
A startled, wordless exclamation followed, and then all that could be heard in that lonely hallway was the hissing of burnt flesh and a chuckle as Old Elminster's head passed over two blazing bodies and flew on, deeper into the shadows.
16
The Linbibben Guest
Knows Not Wheae to Sit
The Castle of Shadows, Ky-thorn 19
The Malaugrym led them a long and winding way through the castle, through rooms that swamWith shadows and rooms where the air was as clearand as dank as any they'd seen in a Faerunian keep. After a time, their route led down and down again, into a manygalleried chamber thick with shadows. As they walked its muffled gloom, Belkram ventured to ask, "What room is this?"
"Some call it the Well of Shadows," the Malaugrym told him without hesitation, "but to most of usI don't know whyit's Deep-pool. There's no actual pool of water here, just shadows, always as thick as you see. Some elders call this the heart of all Shadowhome."
The three rangers could well believe it. They moved in close around Amdramnar to ensure they wouldn't get separated. It would be a terrible thing to wander here, lost and alone.
It was an eerie place. Night dark and tinged with purple, the tattered shadows slid past, shaping eyeless faces, prancing unicorns, and trees whose whispering leaves were human hands, all grasping and grabbing.
Sharantyr shuddered, shifted the saddlebag on her shoulder, and hefted the comforting weight of the blade Mystra had given her. Its glow was dull here, and moisture clouded its steely length. More than once she turned it sharply behind her to menace the unseen source of some half-heard sound-a slithering or the thuds of monstrous footfalls-but there was never anything visible through the endlessly boiling mists.
Shadows. Just what were they, anyway? "Amdramnar," she said carefully, almost stumbling
over the unfamiliar name, "what are these shadows? You speak of them almost with reverence."
"Not here," the Shadowmaster replied quickly. "We'll talk of this in my chambers. It's no secret that some of my kin believe that only two sorts of beings should know the ways of shadowthose of the blood of Malaug ... and the dead."
An old and ornate stair post of black stone loomed up out of the mists, and beyond it a flight of steps climbed an unseen wall. They ascended, Shar grimacing at the carvings on the post as she passed. It was ringed with chained human maidens, bodies bare and mouths open in endless silent wails of despair. The stair itself seemed to moan as they trod its worn, mist-shrouded steps. From time to time, a step would glow with awakened magical light as they stepped on it. Uneasily the three companions went on, wondering just when their guide's treachery would come, and what fatal form it would take.
"What's that?" ltharr snapped, at a sudden movement on the stair ahead. Beads of light swam out of the shadows like a string of little lanterns, slid across their path, and plunged over the stair rail into the shadows of the Well. They watched the glimmering radiances plunge into the falling darkness where the dreamshadows spunand then burst, one by one.
"Just shadow at play," Amdramnar said with a shrug. "There are a lot of things around here that even our elders can't explain. The shadows are alive, you see."
* * * * *
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Ky-thorn 19
"Alustriel's back chambers first, my tower next. It certainly seems as if the Malaug-rym are visiting Chosen."
Elminster frowned at the Lord Mage of Waterdeep, and they stroked their beards in unison. Laeral stifled a giggle at the sight.
"Aye, so much is obvious," the Old Mage agreed slowly, "hut why have they sent such young dolts? Zhentarim
may test their younglings in order to kill them off, but not everyone is that stupid. Why plan for almost inescapable failure?"
"Perhaps they're not testing the Malaugrym, but something else," Laeral offered. "Something they mistrust, so they'll risk only the youngand enthusiasticto try it. That would square with what befell me."
Khelben and Elminster turned their heads and lifted an eyebrow each, in perfect unison. Laeral managed not even to smile this time.
"Befell you?" Khelben prompted, which was unusual impatience for him. Beneath that calm gravity, he must be excited.
"I could not see who attacked us, until the wild magic broke over them," Laeral reminded him gently. "The spell attack, yes, but it seemed to be born from empty air, not a foe. What I could see of the bedchamber beyond the doorway seemed empty, and the body of the Malaugrym should have blocked all view of the bedchamber from me."
"A cloaking magic, then," Elminster said, nodding. "They're testing something that hides them from us."
"And only us," Laeral added. "The 'prentices could see the Malaugrym normally. Poor Ushard may just have been distracted."
"His attention was permanently elsewhere," Khelben said darkly.
"It certainly is now," Elminster agreed, his lips twisting into a mirthless smile. "Servants and guards readily saw the Malaugrym who got into the palace in Silvery-
moon, too. So this cloak is set against usthe Chosen.
The 'how' we can wonder about later, and the answer to 'why now' is almost certainly to take advantage of chaos across the Realms, so guards won't be guarding and watchers not watching
"And great power walks the land for those who can devise some way of taking it," Laeral reminded them.
Khelben looked at her. "I doubt I'm archmage enough to tear divine powers from an avatar, master them, and hold on to them-and most of the Malaugrym aren't half the wizards we are."
"Ah, but we're not half the arrogant dancing idiots they are," Elminster told him, a bleak smile growing on his face. "That's what they'll be after, all right, the ambitious ones. The older, craftier ones will probably settle for sliding into Faeruhi and taking over a kingdom here and a region there, by slaying kings and envoys and taking their shapes, using this cloak to hide themselves from our prying eyes."
"They might have picked a quieter time in the Realms," Khelben said grimly.
"But they did not, love, and 'twas ever thus," LaeraI replied quietly, "and you know it."
"Yes," Khelben growled, getting to his feet. Floating in the air across the chamber, the nearest of his blackstaves moaned in sympathy. He glanced at its pattern of winking lights to be sure that nothing was amiss and then looked down at Elminster. "If that cloak works," he growled, "they'll be able to hide from us with impunity. They'll come after us to slay us, one by one and time after time, until Tymora smiles upon them. We've got to find out just who knows how to raise the cloak, and destroy them and all their work so that no clever Malaugrym or other foe coming along later can craft other cloaks."
"It's not the best season for touring the Castle of Shadows," Elminster murmured with the beginnings of a smile on his face, "but I may already have eyes and ears-if not much elsethere."
Laeral gave him a look. "I'd not call those Harpers and the lady Knight of yours little more than eyes and ears," she said reprovingly.
"Nor would I," Elminster agreed. "I meant something else."
ICheIben gave him a look of failing patience and asked, "What, 0 grand and mysterious one?"
"Well, 'tis often said ye must get a head in this world . . ." Elminster began innocently. Laeral, who knew what was coming, nudged his ribs with one shapely boot and groaned.
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
"Wine?" Amdramnar held out the slim, fluted bottle, but three heads were shaking firmly.
"No, thank you," Shar said calmly, her fingers laced about the hilt of her still-drawn sword as she sat with its point grounded on her boot. "We're not thirsty."
The Malaugrym half-smiled. "Inform me when that situation changes, please," he said smoothly, as a velvetshrouded seat glided up out of the floor behind him. "I can assure you that whatever I offer will be safe to consume."
He poured himself a glass and sat, adding, "Hard as you may find it to believe, trust is something that can grow between us."
"Well, then," Belkram said, a trifle less smoothly, leaning forward in his seat, "perhaps we can begin by trading information."
"An excellent idea," the Malaugrym said, growing another hand. As they watched, fascinated for it looked identical to his other limbs and to their ownit deftly took his wineglass, leaving his other hands free to gesture. "Pray state what it is you'd like to know, and what you offer in trade for it."
"Who and what the Malaugrym are," Itharr said calmly, "and what your folk intend to do in thein Faeran."
Amdramnar nodded. "An inquiry bound to touch on sensitive areas before it is done. And for such lore you will give me?"
"Tongue-fencing is not a sport all of us here favor," Sharantyr told him bluntly. "What do you want to know?"
The Shadowmaster raised an eyebrow. "Oh? You show mastery of it, though. As to my desires, they approximate yours. I want to know who you are, and why you're here. What are your intentions in Shadowhome?"
"Clear and civil enough," Itharr said. "Who begins?"
"As host," Amdramnar said smoothly, "I feel under some obligation. A little, then, you shall have. My name you know. I am a male of the blood of Malaug, a family
who can shapeshift, descended from the sorcerer of that name."
"Who was this Malaug?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "I'm not a historian, and we tend to speak the same few admiring phrases about the family founder, without really knowing overmuch. He's been dead a long time." He sipped wine. "All I really know is that Malaug was a human mage, the first in Toril to find his way here and master the use of shadow in magic."
"What is shadow, anyway?"
"It is the formless, ever-changing stuff of this demiplane. Sageseven among our kinargue a lot about what shadow really is, but most of us consider the matter something like this. Shadow is the mobile, mutable essence of Shadowhome, a fog that is everywhere, as air is everywhere in Faerfin. It absorbs energies and traces of whatever it flows past, and uses these energies to move about. Shadow can easily be harnessedas a power source and as a raw materialto make things, or used to change things or do things. Its unevenly stored energy gives it lighter and darker areas, although it usually looks sort of gray, like sea mist or moon shadows in Faeriln."
"You can make things out of itsolid, permanent things?"
"Well, nothing is permanent. The shadows are ever changing by nature. But yes, some of us can craft items, tools, furnishings, even weapons from it. Much of this castle is made of shadows, and it changes, most of it, only slowly. Learn to fear shadow here, for those who do not learn may die, killed by creatures out of shadow or by their own foolhardy actions."
"Some of you use magic, too," Shar said slowly.
"As with other humans," the shapeshifter said with a smile. "A few of us are mages; most are not."
"Forgive the mariner of my asking," Itharr said quietly, "but you are. . . human?"
"Of course. We can take other shapesas you yourselves have found, shadow tugs at everyone who enters Shadowhomebut we are humans underneath the
shapes we take."
"I was wondering about that," Belkram said, looking at his own hands.
Amdramnar spread his hands. "Here in my chambers, as in most inhabited rooms of the castle, the wild effects of shadow are lessened by enchantments and habit and .. . the force of our wills. Out in the passages, shadows play, though Malaugryin learn to counter unwanted effects until it becomes a habit. Your shifting marked you as mortal. Only the young of my family care to indulge in uncontrolled shifting as they go about the castle."
"I see," Belkram said. "Can we learn to control our own bodies?"
The Shadowmaster's shoulders lifted in a shrug. "Perhaps," he said, "perhaps not. Some have come to join our ranks and mastered shadow readily. Others never do."
"Some have come to join you?" Sharantyr asked. "From Faerimr
"From many places," their host replied, raising his glass.
"Well then, why haven't we heard of you, across the Realus?" Itharr asked, frowning.
"Realms-wide recognition of us, and knowledge of our natures, is not something we welcome," Amdramnar said, his smile dimming a trifle. "So many folk in your world fear and hate others who have power they do not, or seek to seize such powers for their own purposes. The sorcerers of Thay and Zhentil Keep, in particular, have hunted us. Common folk from the Sea of Swords to the Celestial Sea think we're dopplegangers come to eat them, when our paths cross. We've grown rather tired of always finding swords thrust through our innards."
"But you do come to the Realms," Belkram said slowly, as if listening to some inner voice, "and take away women. Several sages have told us this."
Amdramnar raised his eyebrows. "Oh? It's not an amusement I'm personally aware of. Were they sure Malaug-ryrn were taking maidens? This sounds like one of those 'dark dragon' tales old nurses scare young brats with."
"You need them for breeding," Belkram said inexorably, "because female Malaugrym are barren."
Their host shrugged. "Forgive me. I must reveal ignorance of this because, as you may have gathered, I am not a woman." He sipped at his wine and added, "I should warn you, however, that from what I do know-and know wellof the temperament of the ladies of my family, this is not a wise topic of conversation when you're in their hearing." He smiled faintly, "Ah, we do have a family tradition of duelson the spotto answer what are regarded as insults."
He set down his glass and added, "It seems you've made a good beginning at getting to know my kin, and I'd like to learn as much, if I may, about yourselves. It's not every day I meet visitors from Faeran upon the stairs."
Amdramnar leaned forward. "This much I can tell. You are friends, companions-at-arms, and know each other. You are adventurers, or at least more comfortable on forays into the unknown than say, a potter or cowherd might be. There my useful information ends. Tell me more, if you would, such as your names and where you hail from and whatever led you from there to Shadowhome."
"Belkram is my name," Belkram said caluly, "and that's 'than.. We're both rangers, wandering the Realms getting to know its ways, a common thing for folk in our line of work to do. One travels the wilds of Faerim, looking for the places one is loved and needed." Itharr nodded his agreement but said nothing.
"And I am Sharantyr," the lady Knight told him. "I dwell in Shadowdale, and yes, I am an adventurer. We grew restless and accompanied a friend of ours on a journey as his sword escort. The Realms have become dangerous this last year, and he was headed through Daggerdale, which has been a perilous land for some time, thanks to the Zhentarim."
"Ah, yes," the Shadowmaster said with a bleak smile, "we've had our own occasions to thank those ambitious wizards of Zhentil Keep." He bent his head to one side. "Through Daggerdale, you say?"
Sharantyr shrugged. "He didn't. . . live to tell us his destination."
Amdramnar's eyebrows lifted. "Oh? Some misfortune befell him?"
"He was killed," she said flatly, "by some rival mages. A day ago. This morning, wandering open country in Daggerdale, we stumbled through some sort of glowing door and found ourselves here, in your castle."
"Oh? Where in the castle?"
They gave him three shrugs. "Somewhere shadowy," Itharr told him, straight-faced. The Shadowmaster almost smiled.
"I ... see," he replied. "And who was your friend? 'Rival mages,' you said. Was he a 'nage of some reputation?"
"Oh, yes," Belkram replied quickly. "Quite famous, in the Dalelands at least. His name was . . Elminster of Shadowdale."
Eyebrows rose. "I have heard of him, yes," Amdramnar said mildly, reaching for his glass. "He must have been, oh, several hundreds of years old, at least."
Itharr nodded. "We believe so." The Shadowmaster fixed bland eyes on him and seemed to be waiting for him to say more, but the burly ranger spread his hands to indicate he had no more to say, and kept silence.
"Would you judge that the gate that brought you here was of his making?" Amdramnar asked. "Could he have been taking you to it, perhaps?"
Sharantyr and Belkram spoke together, "No." After exchanging quick glances, Shar went on. "We don't think so. The place where we camped was not in quite the direction we'd been faring, and he'd said nothing of such things to us." She let a note of sadness creep into her voice and added, "He . . . liked to talk. There were very few things about magic that he didn't warn us about, not just on this venture but always, in all the time I've known him."
The Shadowmaster frowned. "I'm sorry to hear of his passing," he murmured, "though not all of my kin would share that view, I'm afraid. Some of the elders here in the castle are-weresworn foes of his. Just what disagree-
ments they had with him were very much before my time, so I've never known just why this. .. coolness. existed between Elminster and my kin." He stirred. "Nevertheless, ShadowdaleFaerunhas lost a great mage, and that's something all should be saddened by. 'Tis only the advances in magecraft that make life, in whatever small ways, better and better with the passing years. Are things seen this same way in Shadowdale?"
"They are." Sharantyr agreed. "Though the power of sorcery corrupts far too many men, and far too often, some good always finds its way down to the faruhands and the honest tradesfolk. His death diminishes us all."
Amdramnar frowned over his glass, then looked up. "What you say leaves me downcast, but also curious. If Elminster of Shadowdale knew nothing of the gate that brought you here, how came it into being, and when?" He smiled thinly. "It's no secret that we haven't seen any stream of visitors from Daggerdale before you."
It was ltharr's turn to shrug. "Truly, we went through the gate by accident. We've heard of such things before fireside tales of wizards fighting wizards are full of them-but we'd never seen one. At first, well, I thought it was some sort of trap to lure us, or even something to do with mating, that a will o' wisp had spun."
The Shadowmaster chuckled. "Oh, that's something I've never thought of. How do they mate, I wonder?" He set aside his glass again. "Can you find this end of the gate again, to get back home?"
Sharantyr shook her head. "No," she said simply. "We don't even know for sure if they work in both directions."
"Well, some do, and some . . . ," their host replied, tilting his head from side to side in a gesture of resignation. Then he leaned forward again. "Some of my kin certainly know sorcery enough to get you back to Faernn, though just where you'd emerge is another matter. I must warn you, however, that such powerful spells are regarded as valuable, and the caster will expect payment"he eyed the sword Sharantyr held"in the form of a service, if you have nothing more tangible that you're willing to part with." He smiled and leaned back again, waving a
dismissive hand. "However, that can be a problem for another day."
The Shadowmaster spread his hands to indicate the room around them. "Now that you're here, however accidental your journey, what are your plans?"
"Uh, to get home again safely," Belkram said with a tentative smile. The shapeshifter nodded approvingly.
"A wise ambition," he said. "I must warn you that, were you to wander freely about the castle, you might well be attacked by those of my kin who fear you're spies for an army of mages from Thay or elsewhere. Or you just might talk too loosely of what you've seen when you get back home, and spur someone more greedy than prudent into trying to take magic from us."
He held up a gentle hand to indicate he suspected them of no such failings, and added, "Moreover, shadows are strange things, as you've seen. There are some among us whose wits have. . shall we say, been changed by their experiences with shadow. They aren't safe to themselves or to the rest of us. For some of these unfortunates, the sight of mortals is a goad that enrages them into attacking in beast shape or hurling the most damaging spells they know, or. . similar behavior. You'll readily see why wandering about the castle with no good plan is asking thr trouble."
Amdramnar stood up. "Please don't misunderstand me," he continued, walking slowly to a sideboard, "if I say that it might be safest for you if you remained here in my chambers. In fact, I'd like you to stay here tonight, if you will. I've room enough to spare to afford you private rooms, all three, and your own bathing and cooking facilities. I must confess I find you entertaining, and welcome a chance to talk more with you about life in Faerun and, I suppose, tell you more of things in Shadowhome."
He turned, a platter in his hands, and smiled. "On the other hand, I know you're curious about the castlewho wouldn't be?-and I'll quite understand if you'd like to explore it. It would be cruelly remiss of me, however, to let you walk out that door without providing you with my protection, or some small magical defense, or something
to keep you from another distressing encounter such as the one during which I first met you. And I must stress that not all of my kin would be as easily defeated as Phenanjar."
"Well," Belkram began, "w-"
"We'd be happy to stay with you this night," Sharantyr said firmly, giving the Shadowmaster her first real smile in some time, "and talk further. Is there a place we could. . . ah, refresh ourselves? And is there anything we could do to help with a meal? We don't want to be a hindrance to you in your living, or in your affairs."
The Shadowmaster waved a dismissive hand. "As to the first, go through that door, though I fear you'll find the facilities somewhat . . . different. We usually leave wastes behind us through changing shape, you see, and let the shadows take away what we don't want." He smiled broadly and went on. "As to the second, be at ease. We can prepare food together if you'd like, or you can leave things to me, as you prefer. It's no hindrance, and I'm delighted to have you."
He set down the platter and turned to the door. "Here," he said, "let me show you. You might find that your sword"
"Feels best if it stays with me," Sharantyr murmured softly, and he gave her a surprised look.
"Ah, yes, of course," Amdramnar replied, and opened the door by holding his palu up in front of it. He indicated a dim passage beyond. "You see," he said. "Now, if you'd feel more comfortable venturing down it together, by all means. Your travel arrangements are your own."
"That won't be necessary," Sharantyr said, whirling about to stare hard into Belkram's eager face. The ranger had already opened his mouth to offer. Staring at her eyeball to eyeball, he shut it again, blinked, gave her a weak smile, and sank back into his seat.
The Shadowmaster turned quickly back to the platter with what sounded suspiciously like a snort, and announced, "I'll just get the meat and bring it back here. I won't be much time at all."
And he strode away through the mists, another door
opening for him in what had seemed to be a dark and solid wall. BeIkram promptly leaned over to Itharr and said in his ear, "If I hear much more of this smooth-assilk politeness, I may spew! Have you ever heard the like? Not a word wrong. He's worse than a Waterdhavian courtier!"
"Better than a Waterdhavian courtier, Belk," Sharantyr told him severely, bending over them both. "Better, do you hear me? I'm rather enjoying it, for a change. Heed ye, gentle sirs!"
"Ye gods, he hasn't got you believing him, has he?"
"He's probably listening," Shar hissed, shaking her head to indicate "no." She straightened, strode quickly across the room, paused in the doorway their host had shown her, and looked uncertainly back at them. "Itharr!" she hissed, and beckoned. He came.
"Stand in this doorway," she said, "as if you have to .. . go, you know. ... and don't let the door close. I don't want to be trapped on the other side of a stone wall that won't open for me, fighting to the death, while you two sit in here with him swapping 'and then I changed shape and she swooned' stories!"
Itharr looked hurt. "I don't know any such stories to trade. You'll have to tell me some."
"Itharr!" she wailed under her breath.
"Go," he whispered, nodding as he took up his position in the doorway. "And . . . be quick!"
"I intend to," they heard her soft voice floating back to them. "I certainly intend to."
Sharantyr was as good as her word. She arrived back through the door, panting and with the sword pulsing sullenly in her hands, a scant instant before their host returned, his platter piled high with what looked like slabs of pork cooked in a variety of green herbs.
"Boar?" Belkram asked, sniffing the unfamiliar, faintly lemony scent.
"Ah, no," Amdramnar replied, looking a little uneasy. "Actually it's .. . roast shadowslug." He watched them draw back and added, "Er. . . from an earlier meal, too."
He took up a fork and speared a piece, saw them all
watching, and muttered, "Excuse me," as one of his hands grew into a needle-sharp knife of bone. Sawing off a long strip of meat, he fed it delicately into his mouth, put forth a shockingly long tongue to lap some of the herbed sauce from his chin, and murmured in appreciation.
"It's very good," he said, "and it's not haruful to you . .. really. Try a little." He offered it to Itharr, who held up a warding hand wordlessly. Then he offered it to Belkram, who leaned forward with a smile, astonishing his companions, and said, "Yes, I think I'd like to try. It looks wonderful!"
The Shadowmaster gave him a genuine smile, and Belkram realized something. Taking the proffered small piece, he sat back, turning his head slightly so Arndramnar couldn't see the wink of reassurance he gave Shar, and bit into the shadowslug with gusto.
The stone that was Sylun vibrated soundlessly, telling him thatso far as she could tellthe meat was safe. He chewed, aware that their host was watching his face almost anxiously. It was good.
"Did you cook this?" Belkram asked him eagerly. "It's great!"
Amdramnar beamed, and BeIkram knew he'd guessed right. "As a matter of fact," the Malaugrym said proudly, "I did, and-"
And then the door they'd come in by slid open by itself, and his face changed. Belkram's head swung around, and he suddenly wished he hadn't eaten a piece of shadowslugor anything else.
The passage outside was full of Shadowmasters in human form, standing tall and grim and silent, their faces hard. One shouldered into the room and glared around at them all.
Amdramnar saw Shar's hands tighten on her sword and put out his hand in a quick quelling gesture.
The newcomer's eyes slid coldly over all of them, lingering for a moment on Sharantyr's sword, and came to rest, as if nailed there, on Amdramnar's face.
"I had heard," their Malaugrym visitor said coldly,
"that you were entertaining humans in your chambers, but I hadn't thought even you to be quite so foolish. It appears that, sadly, I was wrong."
"And not for the first time," Amdramnar said coolly, "though this is the first time I've had an uninvited guest cross the threshold of my chambers."
"I don't like such dangers being harboredeven embraced-in our midst without all of us being informed," the newcomer said tightly, ignoring Amdramnar's words. "Such offal must be"he raised a hand that slowly became a thick, powerful, sucker-studded tentacle"destroyed!"
17
Hot anb CoLO Running
Receptions
Somewhere in Faerim, Kythorn 19
The midmorning sun laid dappled patches of golden light and shadow across the forest trail. Elminster appeared out of empty air behind his favorite boulder. He sniffed, frowned, and looked critically at the nearby evidence that some wolf had been using it as a boundary marker. Ah, well. Life in Faeriin was at least never dull.
He looked to one side, frowned again, and rubbed his nose. Small wonder the wolves had been about. Enough fresh-gnawed bones to make up at least a dozen folk lay strewn down the hillside in the lee of the rocks. Hymn. It had been his experience that feeding hungry wildlife wasn't usually the goal of so many kindhearted folk in one locale, during peacetime. He'd found the spot, right enough, so 'twas time to stow the 'prentice philosophy. To work!
Stepping out from behind the stone, the Old Mage strolled down_ to the path, hitching at his robes so that it might look to an observer as if he'd had urgent business in the bushes off the trail.
Reaching the cart ruts, he stepped up onto the worn grassy strip between them and trudged along. As he'd expected, one of the bushes beside the path ahead trembled slightly.
"Oh, a wizard may well find time for much fun (for much fun), but an old rogue's work is seldom ever done (ever done)!" Elminster warbled, taking up a tune he'd heard a world away from this one.
"Aghh! Do ye mind!" A deep voice growled from the bushes. "I was plannin' just to rob thee, but if ye don't'en belt up, I'll be happy to gut ye instead."
"Gut me?" Elminster looked properly terrified. As expected, he drew back and turned to run, only to find himself staring into the grinning, unshaven visage of a half-orc whose parentage was attested to by one brokenoff tusk, flat, piglike features, and a cruel smile.
"Don't mind Glorym. He's not hungry today, so he probably won't nibble on ye, being as ye aren't a pretty maiden." The brigand leader stepped into view, guffawing loudly at his own jest and scratching himself with his free hand in an ongoing quest for fleas. The other hand held an axe that might have once served to chop down trees-young saplings, that is, and several hundred years ago.
Elminster looked from one outlaw to the other and suppressed a wild urge to hoot with laughter by quavering, "Wha-what will ye be doin' to me?"
"Well, minstrel boy," the brigand leader drawled, displaying teeth that might have made a boar envious-an old and very sick boar, mind-"the proud army of which I'm swordlord hasn't been paid in a goodly while, and-"
"Pike," the half-orc rumbled from behind Elminster, "what army? There's just ye 'n me, near's I can tell"
"Hush!" the brigand leader said severely, and favored Elminster with another crookedly reassuring smile. "Pay no attention to my friend behind ye. Ihem hem blaugh ahumchose him for this duty because of his, ah, kindly ways toward donors we meet on the road. Donors, I say, because 'tis our habit to, at this time, ask ye for some small tokens for passage on our road . . a toll it pains us to request, mind ye, but-"
Elminster forestalled more of this by scaling a gold piece into the man's grubby outstretched palm.
Pike's eyes widened as he looked down at it, and then narrowed. He scratched his nose and stepped forward.
"Well," he said jovially, " 'tis a beginning, right enough, an' I'm right grateful to see ye've got the idea of the th"
Elminster added a second gold coin to the first and turned to face Glorym. 'Would ye like the same? I'm in a hurry .. ."
"Aye," GIorym rumbled, but Pike's eyes had narrowed again. "In a hurry? That's an awful shame ..."
Elminster smiled pleasantly at him and said, "So it is, friend Pike, because I perceive ye and Glorym here share the same fondest wish. Ye both want to die rich."
He gestured, and both brigands wriggled in midair, their faces telling the world of their sudden terror at discovering they could no longer move. As the whitebearded, gaunt old man between them crooked a finger, one of the gold coins in Pike's palm drifted smoothly through the air to settle into Glorym's grasp.
Elminster smiled at them both and steered their frozen, floating bodies together, gently arranging their hands on each other's throats, tossing away their weapons, and closing the fingers of their free hands firmly around the coins. Then he snapped his fingers. Magic made none-too-clean fingers tighten, and the trapped, frightened eyes began to bulge almost immediately.
"And so ye shall," he added brightly, and went off down the road whistling.
*****
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
"Oh? They must be destroyed?" Amdramnar's tone was lazily unconcerned as he set aside the platter of shadowslug and rose from his chair, his form swelling visibly. "I think not."
The Harpers made as if to rise, but Sharantyr laid a quick restraining hand on Belkram's arm, her eyes on the motionless Malaugrym out in the corridor, and Belkram froze. The three of them stared out at the watchers in the passage, who stared right back, faces impassive.
Between them, in the small open space encircled by the velvet-shrouded seats of Amdramnar's forechamber, tentacles and surging rubbery pseudopods and knots of muscled bulk were boiling and trembling in a tight mass. Sparks and brief sprays of radiance burst around
them but seemed constrained by an invisible cylinder surrounding the entangled Malaugrym. A continuous din of snarls, barks, roars, and hisses came from a score of dripping maws that both combatants had growneyeless mouths on the ends of wormlike stalks that bit at each other in mindless savagery, rising and falling like surf around the heaving bodies.
Shar and the Harpers had never seen such savage energy sustained for so long and contested in so small a space. The foes began to grow within the cylinder as one found a strangling grip on the other. The trapped onethe three Faeriinians could no longer tell them apart-tried to reach air by throwing out breathing tubes, and the other sought to overtop and ensnare these. Entwined, they soared up inside the cylindrical shield, growing quickly toward the mist-shrouded ceiling of the chamber, and all the while, the stone-faced Malaugrym stood silent and unmoving in the corridor, just watching.
And then, suddenly, it was done. In a cascade of abruptly freed sparks, the cylinder collapsed and fell away from around the two gasping, heaving tentacled forms, to be followed, blurring instants later, by the dwindling of the two Malaugrym into human forms once more. The panting men glared at each other until the newcomer found breath enough to snarl a stream of curses that the listening humans could barely understand.
Then he whirled suddenly, lashing out with talons that shot to long-sword length in a trice, stabbing at Sharantyr's eyes.
She flung herself back in the seat and brought her blade up sharply, and the black, seeking talons melted away before the sword's quickening blue glow as suddenly as they had come. Shar stared over them into the Malaugrym's eyes and saw her death in the look of cold promise he gave her.
She replied with a wintry, silent smile that seemed to amuse him. He lifted his lip in a sneering answering grin as he backed toward the door.
"My thanks for the invigorating exchange of views,
Olorn," Amdramnar said in a voice that sounded like a sword blade softly sliding through a stomach, "but I'll expect a request to enter next time."
The other Malaugrym started to hiss a reply, but Amdramnar waved a hand and the door boomed closed with lightning speed, no doubt coming close to striking Olorn's face.
Their host held up his hand and muttered a quick incantation, then quickly touched the door that had just closed and the one Sharantyr had used earlier.
Then he turned, bowed to them, and sat down again. "My apologies, friendsif l may be so bold as to call you so, now that I've fought in your honorbut it appears that you're now enmeshed in our family disputes, like it or not. As you might have heard, that was Olorn, and he's an even more charming individual than Phen.anjar. Was."
He gave them a little smile and added, "He's a tireless foe, I'm afraid. If you see him again, strike firstand to killor We'll slay you. It is also important that you know one thing more: Olorn's strong allies are two similarly young and ambitious Shadowmasters, lyritar and Argast, though they try to keep their affiliation hidden from most of the kin. Both are good at sorceryby your standards, very goodand you'd better consider yourselves at war with them both, as they'll no doubt behave as if you are, the moment Olorn tells them of what just occurred."
"What about you?" Itharr asked, eyeing the platter of shadowslug. "Are we a danger to you, now that others know we're here?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "Not really. I am thought odd by many of the kin, but so are many others, and tolerance must needs be the order of things in many family dealings. You saw how they watched but made no move? They were telling me of their neutrality in this, by that very action. It is how things are done in the castle."
* * * * *
Somewhere in Faerim, then the Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
No one was around to see, so Elminster stepped behind a tree, became a bedraggled-looking crow, and leapt lightly to a leaf-shrouded branch. There he nestled up against the trunk and grew still.
And far away, in a corridor where shadows drifted idly in the ever-present gloom, a pale, grisly object that trailed white hair and a long white beard behind it like a tail faded slowly into solidity, flew purposefully forward through the shadows to a certain spot, and then rose up into the concealing gloom and waited.
A breath or so later, figures came into view down the passage. One was a man whose fingers were a nest of small eels wrapped securely about a scepter whose pale red glow parted the shadows like a slicing sword. The other was a loping, shambling thing of many snouts and protruding ears and eyestalks, a creature that whuffled and tapped the stones of the passage floor and walls with long, spidery fingers as it came.
"So have any of these idiots survived?" it asked sourly.
"I don't believe so," was the curt reply. "Well, perhaps one from the first foray, but no one's talking about it. Milhvar goes about grinning and saying arch things, almost as if he intended them to fail!"
"Why wouldn't he? If he kills off all the most rebellious or hopeless younglings, he won't be the only one who'll be going about grinning, either! Believe you me, there's parents in this castle who'd be relieved to see their own young gone ..."
The two figures waved very different hands in front of a certain section of wall and it split in twain, drawing back to reveal an opening. The moment they'd passed through it, the humanlike Malaugrym turned around to survey the passage behind suspiciously but did not see the head floating above him, in the heart of a concealing drift of shadow.
The door whispered closed, and for some moments the
head stared down thoughtfully at where the Shadowmaster had been. Then it faded away.
*****
The moment the Shadowmaster stepped back through the door that led to his larder, Belkram stretched and brought his hand down over the stone in his pocket. Sylune, he thought at it, concentrating hard.
Gently! The silent voice in his mind sounded reproachful.
Sorry, he told the Witch of Shadowdale, but we've some urgency. Can we trust the food and drink here? Thanks for reassuring me about the shadowslug, but he's bringing a lot more. How will we know?
I've told Shar to plead a delicate stomach, and Itharr to eat slowly, she replied, so you're it, Harper bold. I'll vibrate or even sting you, like this, if something's dangerous. Belkram nearly jumped out of his seat at the jolt he felt then, and favored her with a silent growl, which earned him a giggle in return. And don't talk when he's out of the room. This lad leaves more spying spells lying around than a castle full of Zhentarim! Her mind voice changed. Whoops'ware!
Belkram just had time to bring his hand down and look casual before Amdramnar reappeared, several steaming platters balanced in his arms. "Feast is served, friends," he said, extending several arms out as if they were expandable poles to set platters down on side tables all over the room. Sharantyr grinned despite herself at the sight.
Itharr looked at the platter beside him and drew back. "Thanks, Amdramnar," he said steadily, "but. . . what is this? It looks . . . alive."
The platter held a bed of rice, and on it some sort of chopped and seared green vegetable rather like peppers. Among those deep green shells were brown, fried things that looked like worus in sauce. .. squirming worms.
Amdramnar leaned over. "Worms in sauce," he explained eagerly. "Tombworms, they're called. They live
in the castle foundations. Taste like roast almonds, only better. You'll love them!"
The look Itharr gave him then almost made Shar choke forth all the wine she'd just sipped, but it was obvious that the Shadowmaster wasn't jesting with them. He genuinely loved good food and wanted to share his enthusiasms with someone. Three someones . . even if they were rather wary guests.
If, we live through this, Belkram thought silently, I'm going to get you for this, Elminster, I really am!
Sylune laughed lightly in his mind. Do you know how many folk have said that, down the years?
No, and I care not, Belkram told her sourly. With what I'm planning to do to him, only one of us has to succeed:
". . . And this,' Amdramnar was saying enthusiastically, waving a platter, "is a special delicacy. Netherbird brains in shadowdark wine!"
Remember, Belkram reminded her darkly, it takes only one.
Sharantyr shuddered delicately, but when she looked to Belkram, he gave her a very slight reassuring nod. He'd better not be enjoying this, she thought to herself, and gingerly took a spoonful.
It was good, and Shar told herself, for perhaps the hundredth time that night, to relax. Her ribs and shoulders ached with tension, and yet the smiling young Malaugrym that she knew they could not trust was being a charming host, plying them with food and wine, and partaking just as heavily himself as he kept up a smooth and witty flow of conversation, deftly slipping in sly digs when talking to Belkram and Itharr until he had them insulting each other with the easy grace of yore. The seat was comfortable, the room warm, and . . suddenly Shar stiffened and sat up once more, slapping a hand to the comforting hard length of Mystra's sword, where she'd propped it against the inside of her right thigh. Had that been a stealthy tug on the blade? She leaned forward to look, but found no tendril or tentacle. When she looked up sharply at Amdramnar, she found herself looking at the Shadowmaster's back, as he
pointed out to Itharr a particular scene etched on the wall.
Not Arndramnar, then. What could have jolted her so?
Did the Castle of Shadows have .. shadow rats?
Shar sighed and set down her glass. Stop doing this to yourself, lass, she told herself sternly, hunching forward in her seat and laying a hand on the hilt of her blade.
And then she felt it again, a gentle probing near her ankle. She kicked back sharply and got up, whirling to see what could have touched her, and bumped Amdramnar solidly, thigh to thigh.
Their Malaugrym host looked at her, startled, and Sharantyr had to catch her breath. Gods, but he's beautiful, she thought. And then a tiny voice within her replied: Of course. He can make himself look like whatever you most want. It's how they catch their prey.
"What's wrong, Lady Sharantyr?" Amdramnar asked, real concern in his stormy gray eyes.
They hadn't been that hue before. They'd been blazing red when he fought Olorn. Enough of this! Sharantyr shook herself mentally, wondering if she was falling under some sort of spell, and said firmly, "l'm sorry. I was startled. The seat .. . it started ... to touch my leg."
"Wise seat," Belkram told his plate, and Itharr chuckled.
The Malaugrym shook his head at them. "Are they always like this?" he asked, mild amusement in his eyes.
Sharantyr nodded serenely. "Yes," she said. 'I pay them no mind. They're my swordbrothers."
The Shadowmaster seemed to freeze for a moment, then said, "You'll have to explain that to me sometime, after we deal with your seat." He leaned forward and pushed on the fabric. "All of this is shadowstuff," he explained to them, 'and it responds to magic. Some shadows flee strong magic, and others try to merge with it. This seat is of the latter sort. Your blade is powerful magic indeed. May I ask where you got it?"
He straightened, holding her eyes with his own, his deep and somehow hungry gaze locked with hers. So this was it, at last, Sharantyr thought, heart suddenly
racing. Belkram and Itharr watched her, their faces expressionless.
And then she thought: He has spoken truth to us since we met. Lied with truth perhaps, but cleaved to truth. Very well. I shall do the same.
"This blade was given to me by the goddess Mystra," she said. "I am here under her protection, and she watches what we do even now."
The Shadowmaster stood as if frozen, and she wanted suddenly wanted desperatelyto see him show just the smallest amount of shock. Or surprise. Anything but that smooth, almost mocking confidence.
His mouth did not fall open, but he did lick his lips and hesitate before choosing his next words, almost whispering, 'And your true mission here, Lady Sharantyr?"
"Is not something I can reveal to you," Sharantyr told him gently, "if you would live." She saw his eyes flicker and added almost pleadingly, "It is not something that should bring doom upon you, if you behave well toward us."
Amdramnar bowed then, and they saw his mocking confidence return. "Then I shall strive to be the perfect host, Lady," he murmured, bending over her hand.
Smoothly she took her hand from his grasp, pretending not to see the little barbs that were showing just above the skin of his fingers, and smiled at him. "I have no complaints at all about your behavior," she told him softly.
"Uh-oh!" Belkram told the ceiling loudly. "We know what those words mean, don't we, Itharr?"
ltharr nodded. "We get to sleep in the passage tonight," he said forlornly. "I hope it's softer than the last hallway was."
Sharantyr gave them both murderous looks and tried to keep all hints of the laughter welling up within her off her face. These two Harpers! What a pair! Catching sight of the Shadowmaster's quizzical expression, she lurched a dangerous step closer to open laughter.
And then she saw the first glint of what might have
been fear in Arodramnar's eyes, and her heart surged in triumph. They'd just won the respect they might need to stay alive this night.
Of course, it was also the respect that might drive him to betray them on the morrow.
*****
Somewhere in Faeriin, Kythorn 19
"Warriors of the Nose Bone obey no coward's orders!" The hobgoblin askarr almost spat the words. "We run only to hunt down those who flee from us! We do not run--everto flee from battle!"
"Then warriors of the Nose Bone are fools," growled the other hobgoblin, "and are better off dead fools, leaving the fields of Thar to those more worthy."
"More worthy?" The askarr followed that last snarled word by swinging his rusty-spiked morningstar with all his strength.
It whistled past its target's shoulder with a rattle of chain and crashed to the stones underfoot as its wielder fell forward, the blood-drenched point of a broadsword protruding from his back.
"Aye," its wielder said, snatching a replacement blade from the fallen askarr's scabbard. "More worthy, I said. Are yuh deaf, too?" He laughed harshly, made a rude gesture with his new sword-and with the long, dirty knife in his other hand-at the ranks of the Nose Bone, and trotted away.
And with a ragged roar, the hobgoblins of the Nose Bone turned from the cowering warriors of the Thentian caravan they'd attacked, and charged after the running hobgoblin who'd slain their leader.
The battlegar of the Splintered Sword, he was, and if they had their way, he'd soon be shattered bones on a cookfire, with all his band on side platters!
In moments, the crest of the hill was a shrieking, hacking mass of dying hobgoblins. One of them, who'd come up that hill running, just kept on going, flinging
his captured Nose Bone blade away . . . and then his knife. e . and then his helm.
He seemed to dwindle as he ran, and by the time he reached the nearest tree, a trail of greaves and bracers and armor plate marked his route, and he stood almost naked, his unlovely hide dark with dirt. Then he grinned at the sky, scratched at his ribs, and became Elminster again for a moment before he shrank into a crow once more and leapt into the sky. He circled over the hilltop, cawing loudly to give any surviving hobgoblins an ill omen, and watched the Thentians hastily hitching up their beasts again and trying to move off in frantic, almost comical haste. Another caravan saved, another scrap of order salvaged from all this chaos.
Ao was going to owe him a lot, Elminster decided, before this Time of Troubles was through.
*****
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
"The time has come, Milhvar, for some explanations," Ahorga said coldly, and the row of candles in the Great Hall of the Throne flickered as if in agreement.
Milhvar smiled that slow smile of his and spread his hands. "The cloak of spells was a project ordered by Dhalgrave before his unfortunate passing. Obedience to the will of the Shadowmaster High is the cornerstone of order among those of the blood of Malaug, something recognized by all of the diligent participants in this work, not merely myself. Many of us labored long and hard to weave a web of enchantments that would shield users fully against the perceptionsand the launched magicof any of Mystra's Chosen. Only with such a shield can we hope to bring doom to Elminster."
"Yes, yes," Ahorga growled, rising against the candlelit shadows like an angry giant. "We've heard this self-serving am loyal' speech before! Pm----"
"Going to hear it again," Milhvar said, his voice suddenly steely. "Come, Shadowmaster Ahorga. That is the
least you can do to honor the memory of your daughter Huerbara, who sacrificed her life testing this cloak. She fell in battle nobly, striving against the might of the defenders of Silverymoon. Let her sacrifice not be in vain."
"Strutting mage," Ahorga snarled, advancing menacingly, "I've heard enough! For the loss of her life, yours is forfeit!" He flung four Malaugrym out of the way as if they were dolls and mounted the steps to where Milhvar stood. "She was worth ten of you!" he roared in anguish, in a voice that shook that vast chamber. "She was the hope for the future of us all! 1'11 scream her name from every battlement of this castle as 1 break the bodies of those who wrought this wretched cloak, and every one of them shall die!"
MiIhvar nodded to the cowled figure beside him. It stayed motionless for a long moment, as a trembling Ahorga hurled kin after kin out of the way, ascending the guarded steps of the stair, until Milhvar began to fear that a trick was being played on him, and that Ahorga was going to reach him after all while cool eyes watched slaughter through that cowl.
And then the robe fell away, and Huerbara stood revealed, nude in the candlelight so that her father could see the true, twisted form of her birthing and know her for his own. "Father!" she cried, delighted at his vow of revenge and his judgment of her worth. "Father!"
"Huerbara!" the giant Shadowmaster cried in a disbelieving shout of wonder that shook most of the castle. A gigantic tentacle swept her from her feet to his breast, under his searching gaze, and then he cried exultantly, "Yes! My daughter lives!"
Milhvar stood watching with a small smile on his face until a tentacle slithered out of the affectionate embrace of father and daughter, grew a small fanged mouth, and said to him in a soft, menacing rumble, "The cruelty of your tricks impresses even me, Milhvar. Watch your back hereafter, and spend no more Malaugry-m lives on this fool's game of hunting down Elminster. Every one of us who dies is someone's son or daughter. You would trade all these lives for that of one old human wizard?
We should all be glad the House of Malaug is not a fruit stall, and you the vendor! How long would the stall survive?"
Milhvar stood very still as the tentacle withdrew, staring after it thoughtfully, and said nothing. When Huerbara looked back at where her mentor had stood with her atop the steps, exulting in the sure knowledge that her father loved her, Milhvar had faded away.
Sbabows on the
Castle Walls
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
Shadows swirled around them, blue-green and laced with white, and even Belkram had to admit the spherical room was beautiful.
"I worked on this for years," Amdramnar said proudly, "after I-" Abruptly he fell silent, and his three guests looked at him curiously. Under their gazes, he continued with some embarrassment, "after I saw a similar room in a satrap's pleasure palace in Calimport. Ah, through my scrying stone, of course."
Belkram hooted. "In use, was it?"
The Shadowmaster nodded, the ghost of a smile on his face. "I've not yet found sixteen willing and tattooed ladies to share it with me-with little gold rings and bells set into their skin all overas the satrap enjoyed, but ."
"Someday," Itharr agreed.
"You're working on it," Belkram offered.
The Malaugryin shook his head slightly and smiled in spite of himself. "I see what you mean," he said to Shar, who smiled ruefully in response.
"They're handy for soaping your back, though," she offered. Amdramnar shrugged. "A man with tentacles has no need . .." he said almost sadly, and then added, "I always like to have music when I bathe, and wine. Will you join me?"
"Join you? Ah, in the water?" Itharr asked.
"No, on the ceiling! . . . In the water, yes," the Shadowmaster said with mock severity. Looking straight into Itharr's eyes, he added quietly, "If you're fearing I'll grow tentacles like an octopus and pull all of you under to drown, fear no more. You are my guests and, I hope, my friends."
"Of course," the Harper answered hastily.
Why does this shapeshifter go on with all this? Belkram wondered. He'd forgotten that Sylun was with him, riding his thoughts, until she replied, He plays a
He plays a deeper game, with patience.  Some men do, you know.
His derisive reply had no words to it.
Sharantyr appeared to have come to a decision. "Is the water ready?" she asked. The Shadowmaster nodded, and waved a hand. "Warmer at this end, colder over there, and the floating pods hold soaps. Smell them until you find a favorite. I'll set out trays with some wines."
"Then let us begin," Sharantyr said, and held her sword up horizontally over her head. She whispered a word to it and let goand it hummed a bright blue and hung motionless above her. Beneath its glittering edge the lady ranger bent over, put her hands to her leathers, and calmly began to disrobe.
The Shadowmaster looked at the hovering blade expressionlessly for a moment and then turned toward the door.
Itharr was out of his clothes and into the pool in a flash, coming up to rest his elbows on the edge and watch Sharantyr in frank and open admiration. She wrinkled her nose at him and flicked her fingers in a "so?' expression she'd seen haughty Waterdhavian ladies use at feasts, but he went on staring, with a big grin on his face. She sighed, smiled, shook her head, and continued.
Belkram was also staring at her when a sudden thought struck him. What am I going to do with you? he asked Sylun.
Go to Sharantyr and bind me into her hair, came the reply, quick as a flash. Haste!
He made haste around the pool, and Sharantyr stiffened under his hands for only a moment before Sylunes mindtouch revealed all. A breath later, the deed was done.
Belkram stepped back smoothly and took her clothes as Amdramnar reappeared behind a small forest of floating bottles, but inside he felt suddenly alone-and afraid. Sylun's comforting voice was gone.
Stow it! she said in his mind then, as his fingers momentarily brushed Sharantyr's, came away with her chemiseand dropped it, distracted, as he saw what he was holding.
He made a snatch for it as it fell to the waiting waters, missed the grab, and saw a tentacle snake out over the pool to snatch it inches above immersion. The tentacle held up the garment delicately. Belkram said, "My thanks," and took the garment as if he thanked tentacles every day.
Then he realized what he'd done, and wore a curious expression as he set Sharantyr's clothes neatly aside and straightened up to work on his own.
Shar plunged into the pool with a gasp of pleasure, feeling cool liquid wash away the stickiness that always plagued her under body leathers. When she rolled over onto her back to float and listen to the softly welling music -where had a Malaugrym heard hill flutes and harps together?she found a wineglass full of smoking blue vintage under her nose. She smiled in thanks and pure pleasure, and asked in her mind, Must we kill them all?
No, Sharantyr. You can keep one or two for. . . entertainment. . . but choose carefully, came Sylune's wry and surprising response. Choose very carefully.
* * * * *
Faeriin, The Misty Forest, Kythorn 19
Ramtharage, Keeper of the Fastness, almost whimpered in his seething rage and had to gasp out two long, shuddering breaths to calu himself enough to recall the words he'd need. These blasphemers must die!
ft had been a day and a night since the Great Evil, and these men could not be allowed to live through this second day. For every moment that passed, the hurt to divine Eldath grew greater. Their sin must be purged before nightfall, that the cleansing of the Fastness could begin.
At about this time yestermorn, the Great Evil had occurred. The night sky had been wracked by the thunders
and flashing evocations of mighty spells: showers of lightning lances, great cauldrons of skyfire, and nearblinding clashes of strange radiances. Surely gods had been contesting in the heavens, one with another. Such terrifying outpourings of magic had continued through the dawn. With full light, a smoking star had plunged from the heavens and crashed down like a hurled axe into the heart of the Fastness itself!
The clear, tranquil waters had been hurled skyward, the small sacred creatures who dwelt within them rudely slain, the carefully nurtured mosses and reverently placed stones of the banks flung about like handfuls of refuse and gravel. In one awful instant, the Fastness had been riven and despoiled.
The faithful of Eldath had not even finished tending to those of their number who'd been struck senseless or dashed and broken against the rocks and nearby trees when intruders had come through the woods-local rangers Ramtharage knew by sight, men who worshiped that other Lady of the Forest.
And these Mielikki worshipers hadn't even asked his permission for their intrusion, only arrived in grim haste with nets and long hooked poles and a shamelessly clad witch in their midst. And then these desecrators had dragged the pool! Profaned the ruined Fastness anew!
When their hooks and ropes and prohings failed to bring up what they sought, the witch had summoned up a dark spell that lifted the tortured waters once more, only this time all of a piece, floating upward as if held in a vast, invisible bowl.
With the polluted sacred waters hanging dark and heavy over their heads, those rangers of Mielikki had torn the sky rock out of the muddy, naked depths of the Fastness and borne it away. The witch even had the temerity, the utter flaming gall, to complain about the weight of the waters, the sacred pool of the Goddess!
"A sign of the goddess," they'd called the man-high stone as they hauled it away, gouging a trail through the sacred earth that still cut away through the trees, raw and bright, like a wound made by a slashing sword.
There was only one goddess whom rangers could speak of so: Mielikki. Our Lady of the Forest.
Ramtharage's lips twisted in fresh anger at that name. He strode to stand beside the stone's trail and look along it, deliberately letting the anger build in him again, for he was not a violent man, and fury all too soon made him feel sick. But he must he strong; this desecration of Eldath's holy place must be avenged.
He'd begun the work he must do. Three of the blasphemers hung helpless across the pool, entangled in a webwork that flamtharage in his fury had spun no less than seven trees into, and more vines than he'd bothered to count. He stared at their fearful, sweating faces stonily as his people gathered behiud him, for priests of Eldath did no violence, and yet these men must die.
When the crowd was large enough, Ramtharage began the long walk around the torn edge of the pool. Behind him, someone began the Chant of the Fastness, and it swelled as he walked on, his bare feet plunging into mud that should not be there. Uncaring, he strode over sharp stones and tangled, broken branches alike, to bring doom to the desecrators.
When he stood below them, he held out one hand for the knife and raised the other. Around him, the gathered faithful of Eldath froze into utter stillness, and it was so quiet that a thin breeze could be heard rustling the leaves in distant trees.
"You have all seen the desecration of our holy Fastness, sacred place of Eldath," Ramtharage said, lifting his voice only a little. "Sacrifices of atonement cannot begin to make up the slight to our Lady. So evil an act can only be seen as the first blow in a war between two faiths that can no longer walk Faertin as friends. The Sundering has begun. Let it now proceed!"
He raised the smooth-polished knife so that it flashed back the sun, and tried not to notice how badly his hand trembled.
"Eldath calls upon her priests to refrain from slaying and the work of war," Rarntharage continued, "and so it may be that what I do now will cost me the favor of our
blessed Lady. .. and my powers. Yet my duty is clear!"
He looked to the three rangers in their living bonds, and folded his arms, calling on that deep well of calm within him to quell his raging anger. He had to reach far deeper to find it than had ever been the case before.
But find it he did, and control with it, enough to work the spell and begin to rise from the tortured earth, a foot from the ground . . and then another. . ascending slowly until he was within striking distance of those he must sacrifice.
'This is not something I undertake lightly" he told them. "Nor us," one of the helpless men told him grimly. "Nor us!"
The priest glared at the man who'd spoken. "Do not presume to profane this moment!"
"Ramthar," the eldest of the three asked him quietly, "why are you doing this?"
"Aye," the third ranger spoke. "What does shedding blood have to do with stones falling into pools?"
"Enough!" the priest spat at them. "Be still!" His hands were shaking again as he lifted the knife on high. "Your blood must be your payment for what you did here!" He whirled in the air to look down on the crowd and thundered, "Is this not right? Is this not just?"
"Aye," many voices thundered. But in the silence that followed that impressive shout, another voice spoke from the ranks of the faithful, a voice that was not raised, yet somehow carried easily to the ears of all present.
"Ramthar, I've never heard such idiotic raving in my life! What are ye, mad? Since when do priests of Eldath spill the blood of those who embrace other forest faiths? Does Eldath know what ye're about?"
"Blasphemer!" the priest thundered. "Who are you, to use Her name so lightly?"
The man who'd challenged him was rising now, rising into the air as Ramtharage had done, passing the shoulders of the staring worshipers. He was an old man with white hair and beard, who seemed familiar.
"Elminster of Shadowdale, I am," the old man told the assembly. "Perhaps ye've heard of me."
Ramtharage gulped and turned scarlet and gabbled, "Leave this place! This is not your affair! This is a just and fitting punishment for a wrong to holy"
"Ahh, belt up and stow it," Elminster told him crisply. "It's murder, that's what it'll be, and I'll see that the swordcaptain hangs ye from yonder tree for it, if ye're foolish enough to go through with this nonsense!"
"Be still!" the Keeper of the Fastness thundered. "You have no right to speak here! Y-"
"Ye're wrong, Ramthar," Elminster said in a voice of cold iron. "All folk of Faerun should have the right to speak as they please, anywhere. 'Tis not the duty Eldath laid upon thee to forbid speech, or anything else. Thy task is to nurture and aid, not to restrict or punish. Ye forget thy proper place."
"You dare?" Ramtharage was purple now and struggling for words. "Isilence him!" Struck by this sudden thought, he leaned forward and told the faithful, "Silence him! Strike him down!"
Angry voices rose in agreement, and fists waved in the air, but no one near the archmage quite dared to leap up and lay a hand on his booted feet. They had all heard tales of the might of the Old Mage of Shadowdale.
"Bring him down with stones!" Ramtharage snarled, waving his fist in the air. "Strike him down with boughs! Strike for our sacred Lady's sal"
"This has gone far enough," Elminster said quietly, but his next words rolled around the Fastness with the force and volume of a thunderclap. "Let this madness be at an end!"
He waved one bony hand, and stillness came again to the clearing, the utter stillness of the magically bound. Elminster looked around at the crowd, frozen in midmovement, only their eyes and lungs free to move. . and they looked helplessly back at him. Then he turned slowly, treading air, to squint at the priest who held the knife raised and ready. Elminster shook his head in disgust.
"Ye wouldn't listen to them," El told Ramtharagc, "and ye wouldn't listen to me. Who would ye believe, if they told ye flat out in words even ye, Ramtharage Druin, can
understand, that ye were wrong? Who would ye heed?" He touched the priest's lips with a finger. "Speak."
"The Goddess herself speaks to me," Ramtharage told him proudly, "and I will hear the counsel of no other."
"Right," Ehninster said briskly. "Thankee." He stepped back and turned to face the crowd. "Ye all heard the solenm words of the Keeper of the Fastness, I trust?"
They struggled to reply, and could not. In their enforced silence, they stood and listened to the old wizard chant something long and low and full of words that echoed strangely and yet seemed to clang and slither upon the ear. And then Elminster stretched his arms wide and brought the chant to an end.
Two women appeared, one by each of his outstretched hands. One was tall and shapely yet robust, clad in leathers like the three pinioned rangers. Her garb was of muted green and brown, and her russet hair curled long and free. Her eyes were large and of the deepest brown, and when she moved, she drew the eye of every man there.
The other woman was as tall and as shapely, but thin, and her hair seemed like spun glass or flowing ice-the tresses of a ghost, that one could see through. She stood still and at peace. Her eyes were of the deepest green, and she wore green silks that did not hide what lay beneath them, yet she brought awe and stillness upon those who looked at her.
She nodded gravely to Elminster and then to the other lady, who smiled back at her. Then the lady in leathers walked on air to where Ramtharage stood frozen. When she moved, it was with the surge of the leaping buck and the casual grace of the prowling panther.
"Do you know me, Ramthar?" The voice was low, even purring. The priest trembled, sighed, and spoke. "N-no, Lady," he husked, and licked dry lips. She stretched forth a long finger and touched him.
Sweat broke out upon his brow in a flood and washed down his cheeks. "I am Mielikki, and I tell you truly, diligent priest, that you err in this. I call upon you to free the men you have thought to sacrifice."
"Uh . ah . . I do not worship thee, Lady" the Keeper of the Fastness managed to say, almost gabbling in terror. Then he whimpered at the flash of her eyes, and flung up his hands as if to ward off a blow.
The Lady merely curled her lip and drew back from him, turning her head. "Datha?"
The other apparition nodded and stepped forward. "But you do worship me, Ramtharage Druin... do you not?"
"M-my Lady?"
"I am Eldath," she said gently, "and you have done me much honor down the years. Will you deny me now?" "No! Ah, no, divine Lady . . ."
"Then do as I bid. Free those men and apologize to them for what you intended. Then go forth in the world and tell all who care that Eldath and Mielikki are friends and sisters, now and forevermore." She looked deep into his eyes and touched him with a finger. "Will you do this?"
Ramtharage shuddered and closed his eyes for an instant, then seemed to see the knife in his hand for the first time. He flung it away in disgust and went to his knees in the air. "Oh, Lady, I will!"
Eldath smiled almost impishly. "Good. That's settled, then." She turned briskly and embraced Mielikki, and they both turned and shook hands with Elminster before Ramtharage's dumbfounded eyes.
"This was well done, mage," Eldath said, and Mielikki reached out and tousled the wizard's long but thinning white hair.
"Thanks," Elminster said dryly, bowing his head to hide his grin. He was still doing that when the air swirled like stars around him, and the sudden hubbub of movement and sound told him that the goddesses had gone, and banished all bindings in the Fastness in their going.
The Old Mage and the Keeper thumped unceremoniously to the ground in unison and looked at each other. Around them shouts and sobs and excited talk rose and swelled.
"Well," Elminster asked wearily. "Do ye believe now?"
"I . I do," Ramthar told him, and there were tears in the priest's eyes. "I came so close . . . to such a grievous mis"
"But ye see that, and didn't do the thing," Elminster told him briskly. "Good. About time. Now stop pontificating, free these very patient men"he grinned up at the three pinioned rangers, who grinned happily back-"and go do something useful." The Old Mage whirled around to point at the pool. "Ye can clean up Eldath's Water, for a start."
"The Fastness, you mean," Ramtharage corrected him, almost happily.
"Lad, 'twas Eldath's Water nigh a century ago, when I first bathed in it," Elminster told him gruffly. As the priest stiffened in dawning indignation, the Old Mage waved a cheery hand and vanished, leaving them all staring at the empty air where he'd been.
"Gods!" the youngest ranger gasped. "He summoned Our Lady-two goddesses, no lessjust for us!"
"That, lad," said the grimy, sweat-soaked ranger beside him, "is why all Faerun needs Elminster of Shadowdale. He aids us, great and small, one at a time. All the gods keep him from harm, I say"
The third ranger chuckled. "By some of the things I hear he's pulled, down the years, I don't doubt they do. More'n that-I'll bet you the task keeps them right busy, some nights!"
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 19
The shadows seemed to drift more slowly at night, sliding with stately grace around the three sleeping Harpers. They lay sprawled on the floating silks and cushions Aindramnar had provided, outflung hands and feet just touching each other for reassurance. By the frowns on their faces and their shifting movements and murmurs, it seemed that such reassurance was very much needed.
Over them all hung the blue blade, humming its quiet,
endless song, and the questing shadows parted around it as they came. Otherwise, all was quiet.
Until the wall not far from Itharr's feet melted away with the faintest of sighs to reveal a dark figure beyond.
It stood motionless, watching, for a long, patient time before it stepped into the chamber. Catlike, long tailed, tentacled, and with broad, soundless soft pads for feet, yet it was somehow recognizably Amdramnar.
It did not go far, and eyed the sword warily as it padded forward to stand by Itharr's head. There it halted, looking down.
And then, with infinite slowness, its shape began to shift. The tail and tentacles drew in, reabsorbed by the body, whose catlike bulk grew lighter in hue and less furry before straightening toward an upright stance. With each passing moment it grew more and more like Itharr's sprawled, hairy, comfortably naked form.
Soon all that could be deemed different in the standing, silently shifting figure were eyes that gleamed opaque in the gloom, and those broad pads of feet. And then the figure reached down.
That's just about enough, Sylun thought crisply, as she floated over Sharantyr on silent, unseen watch. Sharply, she brought down a hand that none but she could see, and her spell snapped out.
The Malaugrym recoiled as if he'd been stung, as a wall of black, seeking tentacles suddenly appeared under his fingers, spanning the entire chamber and sealing him off from Itharr and everything beyond.
He stared at the black barrier, shaking his head in disbelief as its eager tentacles probed for him, reaching out seeking tendrils until he batted one away in annoyance and then, of course, discovered his hand was caught.
Another tentacle came cruising up like a hungry shark, and the Sbado,,vmaster hissed a spell in sudden fear and tore free. Wild-eyed, he stumbled quickly back through the wall and restored it to solidity in panting haste.
Sylun laughed soundlessly as she floated above the three Harpers, and thought again about just how much fun it was to go adventuring.
* * * *
Ancient, deep shadows shifted out of the way with uncaring slowness, drifting in this hidden place like proud old ghosts. They ignored the black-bladed, gleaming new weapons that hung watchfully among themweapons waiting to flash to the attack and deal death to an intruder who never came.
In an old and ancient chamber that few knew existed, inside that ring of vigilant death, stood the four beings who'd set the enchanted blades to their silent task. One was a black, glistening globule as large as a house, whose only distinctive features were a pair of green-and-black bat wings large enough to have lifted a dragon. It answered to a terse greeting of, "Bheloris." The second was a swift, many-legged lizard whose bulbous head was a thing of a thousand staring eyes, bulging in as many directions. This grotesque cluster was surrounded by a ring of starfish arms ending in snapping mouths, like the maws of snapping turtles, and was greeted as "Yabrant."
The last two Malaugrym, Milhvar and Kostil, stood in their human shapes and confronted each other with soft menace in politely cultured tones.
"Though the cloak seems technically flawless," Kostil commented, "the inexperience of the test subjects and the protection surrounding the Chosen at the locales selected for forays has not only proved fatal to most of the test subjects, it has brought jeopardy on both the secrets of the cloak and on the security of the Malaugryrn themselves."
"Oh?" Milhvar asked coolly. "How so?"
"What if one of these Chosen sets up a killing brew of linked-by-contingencies spells, or even memorizes a goodly array of ready combat spells, and uses those belt buckles to trace us? I don't want spell-bombs raging through the castle twice or thrice a day!"
"Yes," Yabrant rumbled. "This foolishness must end."
Milhvar spread his hands smoothly. "But we are so close to achieving our aim and striking down one of the Chosen, a victory we need right now, as a people, to hold
up our heads in confidence as we prepare to choose a new Shadowmaster High!"
"Pretty speech," Bheloris said mildly, shifting smoothly toward human appearance and size. "Are you planning to seek the Shadow Throne?"
Milhvar shook his head. All of the Malaugrym in the room knew he wielded greater influence right now than any Shadowmaster High.
Or had wielded ituntil now. The thousand-eyed lizard who was Yabrant pressed on. "No, Milhvar, the blood of Malaug aren't close to grasping any victory of consequence. I have watched much and said little these last few months, and I believe it's you who stand close to achieving some personal goal." His voice changed, thinning to the cold clarity of a stabbing knife. "And just what, your elders gathered here would like to know, would that goal be?"
MiIhvar shook his head again. "You are mistaken. My aims lie in perfecting ever-more-powerful shadow magic, and my progress in this is a very slow thing, not something whose achievements are near or within myor any being'sgrasp."
"So you have pretended, these last ten years," Yabrant went on, his body slowly shifting in shape toward a human build and size, "as you've played the role of studious but dangerously capable mage, but I know you to be more than that. Much more than that. What, for instance, befell that priest of Mystra you captured? You slew him, didn't you? To work one of the forbidden magics, no doubt. What is it, Milhvar? Human shape or dragon shape at will? Breeding with baatezu? The ability to control the minds of our young, arid to expel the minds of the old from their bodies, leaving the husks for your allies to seize and control?"
Milhvar's face changed subtly, and Yabrant pressed him. "That's it, isn't it? You're trying to take over our family by the bodysnatch method!"
"And that," Bheloris said grimly, "is punishable by death." A barbed strangling wire suddenly appeared in his hands; it flashed as he brought it down ...
...around a throat that wasn't there. Milhvar had called on the most precious garment he worethe real cloak of shadows-and silently faded away.
The three elders looked at each other.
"Right now, he's the true Shadowmaster High," Yabrant said angrily.
"He always was," Kostil replied quietly. "He always was."
* * * * *
The cloak spun him through shadows with swift ease, to a place he had chosen beforehand. It had gone badly, as badly as he'd anticipated but not as badly as he'd feared and prepared for.
Milhvar stiffened as a chime sounded behind him, and whirled around. Then he smiled slowly. Hanging in the stasis field he'd set to catch intruders was an unlikely looking visitor: the floating, disembodied head of Old Elminster. The head was watching him.
"Ah, yes," he said pleasantly, "I should have expected you, once your young rabble showed up just walking around our castle. You've been watching all along, haven't you? Laughing at us, to boot. Well, that'll end right now."
He whispered a word, and white fires suddenly streamed around the head, beginning nowhere in the air before it and dying away nowhere in the air behind it. Milhvar leaned forward to grin through the silent, cool, rushing flames at the unseeing eyes.
"Yes," he said softly, knowing a certain distant wizard could hear him. "It's a spell loop. I suspect even the great Elminster won't be able to break free for quite some time. And by then," he said archly, knowing what a clich it was," 'twill be too late. Much too late."
19
But a GuanO PLace
to SWLk About
The Castle of Shadows, ICythorn 20
The door chimed discreetly once, and then Amdramnar's gentle voice issued from it. "Are you awake, friends?"
"We are. Please come in," Belkram called merrily. Halfclad, crossed arms shielding herself, Shar stared at him in indignant astonishment. He stuffed her into the top half of her leathers with blinding speed, earning more than one angry growl of promised revenge from her as he merrily laced and snugged, and finished by chucking her briskly under the chin.
"Crude, Belk," Itharr told him, as the door opened. "You're always so crude."
"Ah, but I get the job done," l3elkram replied with a smile. "And at the end of the day. . ."
"It's the crudity I remember," Shar said crisply, taking the blue sword into her hand and waving it meaningfully.
"In hearty spirits, I see," their host said with a smile, as he set down steaming platters of broth flanked by crescent-shaped toasted rolls slathered in butter.
"You've got more hearty spirits in your cellar? All that drinking we did last night was for naught?" Belkram asked almost reproachfully.
Amdramnar gave this sally a delighted grin. "This is fun. I must tell you all, I've really enjoyed hearing jests and clever words with every third breath of the day. It's something. . . rare in the Castle of Shadows."
"You get tired of it," Sharantyr told him flatly. "Really you do."
The Shadowmaster spread his hands. "Perhaps after years together, I might, but I've had barely more than an evening to enjoy your company so far."
"We'll be happy to stay with you again this night, if you'll have us," Shar said firmly, "but we'd like to see more of this wondrous castle today. May we wander it freely?"
Their host grimaced and then reluctantly nodded. "With care, yes," he said. "Speak to others with deference, I urge you, and tell them you're. . . my allies, if questioned. Do not mention Elminster or the goddess Mystra, and I strongly advise you to refuse all duels, no matter what the provocation. Nor should you surrender that sword." He nodded at the faintly glowing blade in Sharantyr's hands, and then at the plate before her. "But eat first, and drink deep. Water and food will be scarce as you wander. Meals are taken privately among my kin, never consumed in banquets or at set times. Oh, and worry not, young sirs, about controlling your shapeshifting when you leave my chambers. My magic has taken care of that small problem."
The Harpers exchanged uneasy glances at the news they had been bespelled without their knowledge, but shrugged, and smiled again.
"Who heads your family?" Sharantyr asked casually, chewing strong-seasoned buttered rolls, and being surprised at how marvelous they tasted.
"The Shadowmaster High, who sits on the Shadow Throne," Amdramnar replied calmly, perching himself on the edge of a seat as the three rangers ate. What he'd made was very good, and they told him so. He grinned with pride, and Sharantyr found herself warming to their host. He was just like Belkram and Itharr, at heart.
No, lass, Sylun said quietly, in the depths of her mind. That's what he wants you to think, but that's not what he is. Watch him always.
"What's he like?" Belkram asked. "I mean, how'll he react if someone complains that three humans are wandering around his halls?"
"He'll do nothing," Amdramnar replied, "because he's dead. The Shadow Throne sits empty."
"Empty?"
"Yes, and don't even approach it when you reach the
Great Hall. It's guarded, and an attempt to sit on it will bring swift death upon you."
"I'll try to remember that," Belkram said dryly. "Help me, will you Itharr?"
"Great Hall .. . don't sit on throne," Itharr murmured. "Yes, I think I've got it."
"Good," Belkram said. "Anything else?"
"Don't mind them," Sharantyr said. "They mean no offense by this flippancy. It's just their foolish way"
"Oh, I realized that early on," the Malaugrym told her, "but I must warn you that some of my kin won't understand it so, or will consider the insult all the greater if they do. Friends, be very careful."
Belkram sighed. "Everyone tells me that. . . aunts, mother, tutors, passing rangers and merchants .. . even you and you and you. Doesn't anyone want me to have any fun?"
"During your execution, or after?" Itharr inquired, running a finger around his plate to catch the last of the butter.
Shar sighed. "Just do as Amdramnar says, will you?" "Heroes never do as they're told," Belkrarn informed her proudly
Shar looked at him. "Has it never occurred to you," she asked dryly, "that such stone-headed habits might be why the term 'dead' usually goes in front of the title 'hero'?"
"I thought it was just to make tombstones look grander," the Harper replied.
Itharr sighed heavily. "I'll start work on yours straight away"
* * * * *
Not far away in the castle, a lean and lithe woman embraced a long gray saurian neck. It stretched up from a body as large as twenty of her, but it ended in a tiny head that sported a huge underslung jaw lined with hooked teeth, opening up to well back down the massive neck. The jaw opened now.
"Daughter," the voice came out, as deep and as rough as always, "I must go. Milhvar's schemes run on while we wait and debate and do nothing."
"Be careful, father," Huerbara whispered, so their servitor creatures could not hear. "I don't want to lose you."
"I'm always careful," Ahorga told her gruffly, his stout forelimbs growing long, dexterous claws.
"Be. .. very careful," his daughter replied gravely, and he turned away quickly as he saw tears glimmering in her eyes. Malaugrym should not weep.
He waved a jaunty farewell with his tail as he plunged into deep shadows, and in so doing failed to see the small, dark shape that peeled itself off the wall outside his door and drifted after him, flitting from thick shadow to thick shadow.
But then, he'd been a Shadowmaster elder for long centuries. He'd probably have done no differently had the shadow spy walked along right under his nose. Fear's cold iron taste was something he'd almost forgotten.
*****
"This place still makes me feel .. . uneasy," Shar murmured as they passed the stair post of chained maidens and set foot on a stone floor hidden beneath knee-deep swirling shadows. Close together and warily they began their cautious walk across the chamber known as the Well of Shadows.
"Is this the heart of their power, d'you think?" Itharr asked quietly. "What would happen if you called on your sword and started burning and slicing some shadows, right here?"
"Before I do so," Shar replied icily, 'why don't you recite to me just what soothing explanation you'll give to any host of furious Malaugrym who show up to dispute that tactic?"
"Urn, ah," Itharr began, "Hello, gentles. .. it occurs to me that you might be wondering what the lady behind me is, ahem, doing. Wellask her."
His two companions hooted, but their laughter fell away into the deadening maw of muting shadows all around. They exchanged quick glances and fell silent.
Wordlessly Sharantyr raised the blade and held it out in front of her like the prow of a ship. It seemed dull, and dewed with a clinging mist of shadows. Troubled by the sight, the lady Knight quickened her pace into the shadows that hid everything.
All around them, small shadowspawn writhed and spun in the excitements of their birthing, twisting this way and that in the swirling, rainbow surf of shadowborne energy This was the place of shadows, where all things were spun of shadowmistand in the end, spun back into shadowy fading dreams. Their skeletons sank forgotten into the glooms where no creatures went but foolish questing mages, dying shadowbeasts, and lurking prowlers-in-shadow. Belkram and Itharr looked at each other, and their blades hissed out in unison. Looking warily behind them at every second or third step, they went on. It seemed to be taking an awfully long time to cross the chamber.
*****
Shadowdale, Ky thorn 20
Storm Silverhand sighed and pulled on a boot. Clothing might be optional for a morning selecting stones on the rock pile, but footwear was not.
The kitchen around her seemed. . empty. Lonely. She missed Sylun more than she'd thought she would.
"Well," she said lightly, "time to start talking to yourself, dearie."
She grimaced at her own imitation of a trembling dodder-wits and reached for the other boot. As she had done after Maxan's death, as she had so many times before, she must put this melancholy aside and go on. Chosen of Mystra always had to go on.
Time to sigh again. She thought about that for a moment, then tossed her head and stood up, stamping both
boots firmly on. Pirouetting idly across the kitchen, the Bard of Shadowdale took down the long iron pry bar from its hook on the wall.
And then a voice sounded in her head, a voice that held an unaccustomed note of concern.
Storm, the Simbul asked from half a world away, do you know what's befallen El? I can't feel him. It's as if he were gone!
And Storm, standing in her kitchen clad only in boots, armed against the world with an iron bar half as long as herself, felt a swift icy finger run down her spine. She whispered, "No, Sister. I don't know what's befallen him. Do you think?"
Start looking and asking, her sister told her crisply, every inch the Queen of Aglarond, but without raising rumors about his death or disappearance. That, as before, we dare not do. The voice paused, and then resumed with an amused mindtone. Making folk think everything's fine and you're just casually asking if they've seem Elminster about will no doubt work better if you put some clothes on. I know all you folk are weird up there in Shadowdale, but . . .
Storm faced west and made a certain gesture with the pry bar that looked almost as impossible as it seemed painful.
Gods above, her distant sister replied, you've seen him do that? Perhaps I shouldn't be worried after all!
"Nethreen," Storm said, managing to keep her voice steady, 'leave me be for now. Unobtrusively searching all of Torii for Elminster isn't going to be swiftly done."
It may be unnecessary, the Simbul said hopefully. He may just be off gallivanting in disguise, or hidden in the heart of wild magic somewhere . .
"Yes," Storm replied, putting as much hearty reassurance into that word as she could. But as she hung the pry bar back on its hook and sought the stairs to her wardrobe, her heart was dark and heavy and foreboding ran lightly beside her. She had a feeling it would be at her elbow for a long time to come.
* * * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 20
"This must be the Red Chamber," Belkram announced unnecessarily as he strode into the room in front of them.
Sharantyr stayed where she was, gazing around in amazed wonder at a high-ceilinged room as large as the feasting halls of most proud palaces of Faerun. Every surfacewalls, floor, and ceiling was entirely covered in what looked like red plush velvet. She'd never seen a room decorated in such poor taste, but it looked grand and impressive when done so completely and on such a large scale. "Gods," she murmured, "it looks like the inside of some gigantic beast's stomach."
Belkram spun around. "Do you mind?" he complained, waving his arms. "After I step well into it, d'you have to say something like that?"
The lady Knight sighed. "Belt up," she said calmly, "and put that sword away. You might hit someone with
"Well, that is the general idea," he agreed, "but-"
"Belkram," she said in silken warning. "Now."
"Well, as you state your view so eloquently and persuasively," the handsome Harper said innocently, returning his blade to its scabbard with a gentle flourish, "perhaps there is something in what you say."
Sharantyr turned dangerous eyes to her other companion. "Well," she asked mildly, "do you have something inane and clever to unburden yourself of at this time? If so, may we hear it and get it out of the way?"
ltharr dropped his eyes from surveying distant corners of the ceiling and said briefly, "A fascinating room, decorated inEarly Bordello, do you think, Belk?"
"I frequent bordellos only when the hour is late," his friend replied smoothly, "but"
"How do you put up with them, gracious lady?"
They all whirled around. The speaker was a tall man with an elegant moustache and rich robes, who seemed to be melting and flowing out of the wall. Sharantyr eyed that movement of matter with a frown, then raised her eyes to meet his own dark and solemn gaze.
"I manage," she said, lifting her shoulders in a shrug. "And you, sir, are?"
"Charmed to make your acquaintance," the Malaugryrn replied, dropping into a smooth bow. As he straightened up, his mouth crooked and he said in a stage whisper to Itharr, "You see? That's how to do it." He waved a dismissive hand at Itharr's leveled sword and added, "And it's Late Bordello, definitely."
"I bow to your superior experience in these matters," Itharr said urbanely, and did so.
The sword in Sharantyr's hands hummed then, and all eyes went to it. She waited until the Shadowmaster's gaze went sideways to her own, and said, "I am Sharantyr of Shadowdale, Knight of Myth Drannor. Whom do I have the pleasure of addressing?"
"Bheloris," the shapeshifter replied, "of this castle. One of the elders of my kin." A half-smile of sadness rose onto his face as the blue blade lifted to menace him. "I am not," he added mildly, "disposed to offer you violence. . . now or at any other time." He eyed the two Harpers, who were watching him tensely with hands on weapons, and added, "That is not a view shared, I'm afraid, by many of the blood of Malaug." He strode forward, gesturing to indicate his intended passage through them. "May I?"
The three rangers parted to let him pass, and Bheloris walked calmly past them, into the soft red heart of the chamber. "I should warn you," he added, "that such fangs as you carry will avail you little against the magic most of us could hurl your way here in the castle. Smooth words and an air of gentle menace will carry you farther."
"Why are y Are you curious about us, too?" Shar asked him, one eyebrow lifted.
"Of course," the Shadowmaster replied. "So, if you will, I'll accompany you about our halls. Amdramnar must be crazedor more cruel than I thoughtnot to have escorted you himself."
"I don't know if I want an escort," Sharantyr said carefully.
"You do," Bheloris told her gravely, "or you will, if you think about it calmly for a moment. Could you handle an
attack from an archmage who struck from the other end of this chamber? A being who could melt away into the walls whenever you tried to strike back?"
Shar shrugged.
"So I thought," the Shadowmaster said mildly. "You'd be carrion in short order." He spread his hands. "Go where you please. No place is forbidden except the seat of the Shadow Throne itself"
Shar had a sudden vision of herself hacking at a grand black throne with her blade, a throne that twisted and tried to wriggle away from her blows as she struck showers of sparks from it. Then it was exploding, and she was being hurled helplessly away, whirled to her death against hard, hard walls and pillars ...
"I'd like to see that throne," she said firmly, lifting her head.
"Soon enough," the Shadowmaster replied. His eyes were on Belkrarn, who was strolling toward him, looking around. Tall-backed chairs were drawn up around a circular table at the heart of the room, as if for solemn conclaves, all dark wood and gleaming, mirror-smooth polish. "What do you think of this room?" he asked the Harper.
"I don't think I should be impressed," Belkram answered him honestly, "but I am. It's so. overblown."
"Your first key to understanding us," Bheloris answered him lightly. Sharantyr's eyes narrowed.
"Do you know why we're here?" she challenged him quietly.
The Malaugrym spread his hands to indicate bewilderment. "You've come a long way, into much danger. Not the act of most idle tourists, nor the achievement of most lost wayfarers. So you must have come for a good purpose, and I'd prefer that whomever you're reporting to have a clear picture of the power you're dealing with, here in Shadowhome. It might steady judgments and save much bloodshed."
"Consider this in turn," Sharantyr replied. "You may be mistaken as to our presumed status as scouts for some invading force."
Bheloris bowed. "I hope I am, Lady of Shadowdale. I merely seek to anticipate the worst and deny it any chance at becoming reality."
Sharantyr stood very still. She'd not told this mildvoiced Malaugrym her Shadowdale title. He knew far more about her-about them all than he should.
Sylun? Sharantyr asked in her mind, but if the Witch of Shadowdale was still resident in her head, she gave no sign.
"Of course," she replied, striding forward to stand beside Belkram. Behind her, she could see that Itharr had noted the little circle she'd made with her sword tip, and was closing ranks too.
The Shadowmaster smiled. "I don't wish to sound menacing," he remarked, "but standing close together is very poor tactics against anyone wielding magic. One spell can so easily haru all."
He shrugged and turned to face the table, caluly turning his back on them. "But enough talk of battle and strife. This is where our council met, in the days before
. our last Shadowmaster High, Dhalgrave, dissolved it."
"A council of elders? Were you on the council?" Itharr asked.
The Malaugrym smiled. "You are swift, friend. I was." "Who rules now that the Shadowmaster High is dead?" Shar asked.
Bheloris smiled. "No oneyet. The more daring among us have begun to act as they please, and things may end in kinstrife. You have come at a most dangerous time, for there is no authority to appeal to if one is wronged. There are many chances for ambitious Malaugrym to enhance their reputations by outdoing each other in acts of aggression, confidence, and efficient violence. .. and here you are, strolling our passageways, easy meat."
"I appreciate your candor," Belkram told the Shadowmaster, "but"
And then the floor beneath his feet gave way. "Whoa!" he cried, grabbing at Sharantyr's aru for support.
Her sword arm. As her elbow was dragged down, a startled Sharantyr thought, / must keep my feet. My
sword may be all that is keeping this Malaugrym from slriking us down.
As she set herself, determined not to be pulled over, the sword in her hands hummed and drifted firmly upward, straightening her and taking Belkram's weight.
He got one boot up on the floor again and sprang back. The punishing weight was suddenly gone from Sharantyr's arm. Together they looked at the octagonal opening in the floor. A trapdoor had fallen to one side, opening into emptiness.
Belkram gestured at it. "And is this a friendly welcome? Or one of those little acts of aggression you spoke of?"
"Neither," the Shadowmaster replied, striding over to the hole. He raised a hand, murmured something they could not catch, and the trapdoor rose smoothly into place. Bheloris promptly stepped forward onto it and stood calmly facing them. "My apologies for any distress," he said to Belkrarn. 'You had the misfortune to step on a trap-chute that someonecarelessly or deliberately, I know not whichleft active."
"Trap-chute?" Itharr prompted mildly, waving his blade.
"Swift ways down to dungeon caverns. Long unused by the council, but once part of the ceremonial way in which Malaugrym who'd displeased us began their punishment. Down they'd go upon the instant of their sentencing, an impressive gesture for the benefit of others who might plot defiance of the council."
"Are there many such traps about the castle?" Belkram asked, looking suspiciously at the red plush around his boots.
Bheloris shook his head. "Only here, but there must be eighty or more in all, one every few paces."
"Amdramnar didn't warn us about this," Belkram said
Shar shrugged. "He may have forgotten about them, if they've been 'long unused.'"
Bheloris arched an eyebrow. "Oh, I hardly think so." He met their suddenly riveted gazes and said, "The
moment they master teleportingfor the journeys back up-all children of the blood of Malaug play here for years before they grow tired of hurtling down stone chutes. Some never do."
The three rangers exchanged frowning glances.
"I think we've seen enough red plush to last us for some time," Shar said quietly, "and we'd like to see Glyorgh's Chamber, if you'd be so kind as to conduct us there. Arndramnar says it's not to be missed."
The Malaugrym bowed. "Certainly, my lady," he said. "This way, if you please." He indicated the door they'd come in by, and glided past them. As he went past, Belkram raised a questioning hand. "There wouldn't be any dangers awaiting us there that Arndramnar might have
ah, neglected to inform us of, would there?"
The Shadowmaster met his eyes steadily. "No, so long as you stay back of the warning wall of everflame and don't send any spells over it."
"We weren't intending to," Shar said, "but he gave us no warnings about this."
Bheloris spread his hands. "In his defense, may I say that it's something no Malaugrym would think of doing."
"We seem to have made a career, recently, of doing things no Malaugrym would think of doing," Itharr mused.
The Shadowmaster turned an expressionless face toward him. "Continue to do so," he suggested. "It may help to keep you alive."
* * * *
Shadowdale, Kythorn 20
"Well met, Storm," came the smoky, sultry tones of the High Lady of Berdusk out of the speaking stone. "How fare the two Harpers we sent you?"
"Well enough," Storm said to the polished marble sphere floating in the center of her bedchamber, as she struggled into the clothes she'd chosen, "when I saw them last .. . a tenday ago, riding into Daggerdale."
"Good to hear. How can I serve? Pray speak."
"It's. . becoming increasingly urgent that I speak with Elminster," Storm told her, "and he's off racing around the Realus, as usual. If his path should happen to cross that of any of your Harpers, have them tell him to call on me, will you?"
"Of course. Tell us when to call off our hounds, though. I'd hate to have a few good Harpers turned into frogs because the Old Mage has grown tired of hearing the same message."
"I shall, Cylyria," Storm promised. "Thank you."
"You are always welcome, Storm," the speaking stone replied. "Call on me more often. I grow weary of hearing about the daring exploits of Harpers out east only in minstrels' ballads and tavern gossip!"
Storm winced. "You know I hate using this thing," she said softly. "Yet you're right, Cyl. Expect to hear from me soon."
"Please do. And, Storm-?"
"Yes?"
"If you're lonely, call me and we can sing ballads back and forth to each other."
"Thank you," Storm said huskily, sudden tears threatening to burst up from her throat. "Fair fortune, High Lady."
"Fair fortune, Chosen of Mystra," the stone said, sinking swiftly toward the soft pelts on the floor. Storm caught it deftly and tossed it onto the bed, sighing loudly before she turned away.
*****
Berdusk, Twilight Hall, Kythorn 20
The deep emerald eyes of High Lady Cylyria Dragonbreast were troubled as she turned away from her own stone. Storm did hate to use the speaking stone. Something must be very much amiss.
With gods walking Faerun, magic going wild everywhere, and every petty brigand and marauding orc
chieftain on the march from here to the Moonshaes, the Harpersnay, the good folk of all Faerun-couldn't afford to lose Elminster.
Her fine features were grim as she struck the little gong built into the head of her bed, took the speaking stone into her hands to keep it from rolling to the floor and shattering, and got up off the bed. Then she smiled at the sound of pounding feet growing swiftly louder down the passage outside. My, but Harper boys were enthusiastic.
* * * *
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 20
"It's . . . impressive," Shar said softly, and meant it. They stared down together from the circular balcony that ringed the dome. In the open space below, amid endlessly roiling, glowing blue shadows, a circle of black magical flamesblazing away consuming nothing and never burning outencircled a shrouded, floating human form.
"Forgive me," Itharr said to the Malaugrym, "but who was Glyorgh?"
"The closest friend of Malaug, a sorcerer of Faerfin who was the first to embrace the way of shadows," Bheloris replied. "He has rested here, in magical stasis, for longer than men have dwelt in any of the Dragonreach lands."
"Where is Malaug's tomb?" Belkram asked quietly.
"No one knows," the Shadowmaster replied. "There are even legends among us that he never died but lives on still, on other planes or in hidden guise somewhere nearby, watching us."
Belkram and Itharr exchanged glances and shuddered together. More impressive still.
The mood was broken when a hitherto hidden door opened a little way along the balcony, and a youngishlooking man ran toward them, his shapeshifting blood betrayed only by the wormlike flexibility of his arms, wriggling at the elbows in apparent distress.
"Is this Malang now?" Belkram asked lightly, earning
a hard look from the Shadowmaster.
"Bheloris," the newcomer said sharply, after a swift, searching glance at the three rangers and a second, involuntary one at Shar and her sword, "you must come. Ahorga's looking for Milhvar. He's"
"Enough, Neleyd," the Shadowmaster said quickly. "You can tell me as we go to him." He turned. "My deep regrets, friends,' he said, leaving his mouth behind on a tentacle as he rushed to the door. "If you follow me out this door and take the first stair down on the right, the third door on the left opens into the Lute Gallery."
"Thanks!" Sharantyr said hurriedly as the mouth sped away from them. "Itharrthe door!"
"Aye," the Harper said, diving for it. He got there before it could close and leaned against the door frame, looking swiftly ahead and then back at Shar and Belkram. "Well?" he asked.
Shar was looking at Belkrarn, and Belkram was leaning forward over the rail, looking down at the floating body of Glyorgh. "No, Belkram," Shar said firmly. "Come on."
Belkram looked at her, eyes bright. "But .. ."
"No, Belkram," Shar said, taking him hy the arm and towing him toward the door. He sighed once as they went out and down the stairs. "What's the appeal of this Lute Gallery, anyway?"
"Enchantments are supposed to play soothing music there all the time," Sharantyr told him. "Many Malaugrym go there to relax. . strolling about, thinking. Didn't you listen to Amdrarrmar?"
"Yes, and I didn't hear anything about traps waiting for me in the Red Chamber," Belkrarn replied, "so I wouldn't place overmuch credence in what he said, if I were hurrying along through the castle."
"My, Belkrarn, that's the wisest thing you've said in days!" a voice said unexpectedly from Sharantyr's breast.
"Sylun!" they chorused, coming to a halt. "Where have you been?"
"Here all along. I've only just managed to break a spying spell our kind host Amdramnar sent along with us. I
didn't dare speak before. Don't get into the habit of talking to me, though. You're going to need a secret ally against these Malaugryna. This place is full of treachery and fey spells."
"Can you stay hidden," Shar asked in low tones, "in a place where so many mages dwell?"
Sylune sniffed. "Of course. Weaving shadows is so easy that they're all lazy and careless."
"Easy?"
"Like commanding an endless supply of fresh, loyal warriors that surround you eagerly wherever you go, waiting to jump at your bidding. To these shapeshifters, spell weaving's more idle thought and whimsy than work."
"So they don't have to work hard to destroy us," Belkram said. "Heartening news." He looked up and down the passage. "So what should we do now?"
"Start looking for gates out of here," Sylun said, "so you have an escape route when things come to battle and they soon will!"
"Just open doors and look around for gates?" Belkram asked.
"Just go back to Amdramnar's quarters. The passage that leads to the jakes also leads on to a gate, if you go far enough."
"I'm going to have a few words with our friend Amdramnar," Belkram said grimly. "Let's go!" He strode off down the passage, and then slowed to a halt. "Uh . . . which way?"
Itharr chuckled. "Sylun?"
"Turn left as soon as you find something that looks major. You've a fair distance back that way to cover," the Witch of Shadowdale directed, one ghostly hand appearing for a moment to point in the proper direction. They set off without delay.
*****
In a room spun of shadow, six Malaugrym sat around a table, gambling. Gems and lumps of gold floated lazily
around each of them as they bent forward over the table, studying the intricate pattern of cards laid out there.
Small plumes of colored flame flickered above the cards, dancing here and there as Olorn studied them, his face an expressionless mask. Between two fingers he held the card he must place this turn, tapping it gently on the tabletop.
"If you're trying to win by waiting until we all die off; Olorn," an eagle-headed Malaugrym said sourly, "just remember that I'm younger than you."
"Hold," another of the players said softly. "See who comes."
Something in his tone made everyone turn and look down through the floor of shadowtransparent to them but opaque to eyes belowin time to see three rangers approaching down the length of the long room below.
Olorn cast aside his cards with a joyous snarl and dropped through the floor in a single bound, plunging down to bar the path of the three humans.
"Going somewhere, cattle?" he sneered. "I think not." "You would be the one called Olorn?" Sharantyr asked softly.
"I am, breeding maiden. We can discuss such things later, when these two lumps of meat with you are dead!" the Malaugrym snapped. As the two Harpers charged him, swords flashing, he brought his hands together. From where his palms met leapt a beam of white-hot, crackling flame.
As it rushed to meet them, Sharantyr didn't even have time to scream.
20
A Swoub
Against the Shabows
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 20
Without thinking, the Knight of Myth Drannor swung her sword. There was a flash of blue radiance, a moment of roaring brightness around her, and the flames were gone.
Olorn glared at her, eyes flat with fear and hatred. "How dare you?" he snarled, raising his hands again.
"What, stay alive?" Sharantyr replied. "I dare it every day. I'm even getting good at it. What is your quarrel with us, anyway?" As she spoke, she felt the stone that held Sylun vibrate once ... and then again.
"Dung! You defile our castle by your insolent presence!" Olorn hissed, his hands moving in the gestures of a spell.
"He sounds like a priest of Bane in full rant!" Belkram commented, drawing in close behind Sharantyr on one side. "Aye," ItharT agreed, taking the corresponding position on her other flank, shielded behind the swing of the blue blade.
Olorn's next attack was a spell to pluck them from their feet and hurl them against the ceiling high above, but it did no more than thrust them a few feet up into the air, wavering, before the sword's magic broke its effects.
The three rangers advanced together, swords raised. The room suddenly seemed to be full of watching Malaugrym standing around the walls. Their eyes were alive with interest, and none of them lifted a hand to help Olorn.
Flames suddenly flared up in a wall before the three Faerunians, blistering heat rolling out from its roaring to sear and singe. But Sharantyr snarled and flailed about with her sword, and where it cut and slashed, the fire flickered and faded.
Then the air around them was suddenly full of other blades, whirling and flashing, ringing off the Harper's hasty parries in a constant din. Sharantyr cried out as one blade spun across her arm, shearing through the worn leathers. A moment later, another carried away most of her right ear in a burst of blood, along with the hair around it.
Olorn laughed at the sight, then choked and caught at his throat, tearing out the dagger Itharr had hurled. The Malaugrym flung it down in a fury and swept both his hands together, pointing at the burly Harper, and all the flying blades came whirling out of the air around them to hurtle toward Itharr.
The deadly converging rain of leaping points met the sweep of Sharantyr's blazing blue blade, shimmered, and was gone. Only a few weapons glanced aside enough to escape, missing Itharr entirely.
Sharantyr strode another pace closer to their foe, but a table, flaming cards, and chairs suddenly rained down from above as Olorn spun all the shadows of the gaming room into a cloaking spiral, trying to smother the powers of the blade that seemed able to slay all his spells. Shadow would not fail him. It never had.
The table smashed Belkram to the floor. ltharr was flung aside, face bleeding, under the blows of two chairs, leaving Sharantyr standing alone, struggling to keep hold of her blade as shadows roared and wheeled around her, clawing and tugging.
Olorn smiled triumphantly at the lady ranger, a smile that slowly grew fangs. Shar's eyes fell from the glistening teeth to the Shadowmaster's hands, and saw that they'd become tentacles. As she gasped at the terrible, ever-growing power of the shadows mounting against her, he reached forward. He'd tear one man limb from limb, and then the other. By then the maid should be disarmed and he could have some fun.
Then the whirling blades were back, making bloody ruin of the tips of his tentacles. Olorn recoiled, hissing in pain. Could the sword drink spells and then spew them back? He'd bby the blood of Malaug!
A shimmering barrier of swirling rainbow hue had appeared in front of him, spanning the entire breadth and height of the Hall of Stars, walling him away from the three humans. How could they have such power?
The rainbow wall bulged, and out of the bulge stepped Amdramnar, smiling tightly at him. "Fingers burned, Olorn?" he asked. "That's what happens when you pick fights with innocent folk who've no quarrel with you."
"And just what are they to you?" Olorn snarled, growing tentacles at a furious rate.
"They are guests of mine, idiot kin," Amdramnar said meaningfully. "I observe the rules and courtesies of our family, if you do not. They remain under my protection." Many glances were exchanged among the watching Malaugrym.
"And you let them wander the castle freely, to poke and pry where they may?" Olorn raged, drawing his tentacles up before him like a nettled giant spider, ready to strike.
"What can they see, Olorn, but shadows, doors, chambers, and walls? What is there to learn that can hurt any of us?" Amdramnar answered, adding lightly, "What cards you still held in your hand, perhaps?"
There were chuckles from several Malaugrym, and Olorn's eyes turned flat, dark, and dangerous. "You've gone too far," he said softly, "and have become a traitor to our people. I must do what Dhalgrave no longer can. Die, traitor!"
A forest of tentacles shot forward, only to vanish in a welter of gore about halfway to Amdramnar, writhing and disintegrating in a mist of blood. Olorn screamed and staggered back, hauling away what was left of his rubbery arms. They left a trail of glistening gore to where he whimpered against a wall.
"You don't learn, do you?" Amdranuiar asked incredulously. "Did you not see my blades? Did you actually think me so weak or careless a mage that I'd have to dispel them in order to raise a barrier against you? Nay, I just made them invisible, you dolt. I should finish you."
He gestured as if to move the invisible blades closer to Olorn, but that worthy Malaugrym was dwindling and
flattening, air whistling out of him from twenty places in his haste to flow out the door at the back of the hall. Amdramnar took a pace forward as if to pursue him, but other Malaugryin shook their heads and closed ranks to block his route.
"No, Amdramnar," one elder said. "I care nothing for your quarrel, but I'll see no kin slain in the very halls of our castle, fighting over custody of mortals! Keep better watch over your humans in future. If they wander, troubles are bound to befall."
"I bow to your wisdom, Cortar," the young Malaugrym replied, "and see to their whereabouts." He withdrew a few paces, and the rainbow barrier fell away around him.
Several Malaugrym started forward from the walls, but Amdramnar said merrily. "'Ware the bladesremember?"
They came to abrupt halts and glared at him, and he recognized at least two of Olorn's cronies among their ranks. He gave them soft smiles that held deadly promise as he put an arm around Sharantyr's shoulders-she gave him a glare almost as black as OlOrn's had been, evoking more chuckles frotn the watchers around the walls-and nudged BeIkram with his foot.
The Harper rolled over with a groan. "Ye gods and little ground-snails," he gasped, "I think something in my shoulder's broken. It burns like fire!"
"Crawl over to Itharr for me, will you?" Amdramnar asked him. "We'd best get gone speedily. You somehow wandered into the Hall of Stars, where our mages practice spell-hurling!"
"We're going to talk, later," Belkram promised him grimly, wobbling to his feet. Shar laid a hand on his arm, and through it he heard Sylune say, There's a ring lo heal you in her bool, remember Hang on and do as the shapeshifter bids.
By your command, Belkram told her mockingly, and began the painful journey to where Itharr knelt, clutching at his forehead, blood still streaming down his fingers. "How are we, old blade?" Belkram asked, collapsing
beside him.
"Chairs . . . chairs are beating the soft stuff out of me," Itharr grunted. "The head on the left hurts the most."
"Up, lad. We can stagger off to the graveyard together," Belkram said tenderly, rising and hauling Itharr to his feet by main strength.
"Where's a quiet place we can go?" Sharantyr asked Amdramnar.
"My chambers, of course."
"No, Amdraninar," she said quietly. "Not now."
The Shadowmaster's head swung around, and their eyes met for a long moment. Then he looked away.
"Out this door," he said, "and then through here."
He led them quickly out into a passage and through the first door they saw into a staircase. They went up a flight to another door, across a hall, and through a dusty room full of shrouded human skeletons. They passed through another door into a dank, dark corridor choked with rubble, thence into some sort of storeroom full of huge casks. Amdramnar led them right through the last, false, cask into a small chamber that he lit by making the end of one finger flame until he found a dusty candle lamp. The room was crowded with small, cobwebbed tables, and Belkram promptly rolled Itharr onto one of them.
"Rest here," the Shadowmaster said. "I'll come back for you." He turned to go, then turned back. "Would you like me to work any healing magic before I go? Itharr's head looks pretty bad . .. and your ear."
Take his healing, Sylun said in Shar's mind, for yourself only, no matter how selfish it makes you. look. Act aroused.
"Heal me," Sharantyr said in low tones, putting out her hand. "Then I can tend my companions with a clear head. Later, when you come back, they'll probably be in need of sleep. And then ..."
Quite deliberately she reached behind her and set Mystra's sword on a table. Then she put her freed hand to her lips, and licked one finger while she looked steadily at him.
Their eyes met again .. . and slowly, very slowly, Amdramnar smiled. In spite of herself, Shar felt a stirring within her.
He nodded and turned away, murmuring something and making an intricate series of gestures and passes in the air with his fingertips. Then he turned back, extending one finger to touch her ear as gently as possible.
He's added a glamer to make you want him, Sylun told her, a moment before warmth flooded through her and the pain melted away.
"Ohhh, yes," she murmured, and melted against him, turning her cheek to rub against the arm that had healed her. His skin had a strange acrid, spicy scent, but she licked at his fingers avidly, purring deep in her throat.
When she looked hungrily up at him again, she saw laughter and triumph in his eyes. "I'll be back," he said. "Soon."
"If you're quite finished sticking your tongue in his ear, Shar," Belkram roared, "I need you to hold the other end of this Itharr's still bleeding!"
"I'll have spells that bring slumber," Amdramnar murmured, and was gone out the door.
Sharantyr leaned against it and trembled. I hope you can do something about that glamer, she told Sylun, or I'm going to be a breeding maiden for shapeshifters . . and love it!
I already have, little kitten, Sylun's voice told her mockingly. You did most of the warm and caressing play all by yourself
Sharantyr growled as she reached for her boot.
"Now what're you playing at?" BeIkram snarled. "I'm sure yon Malaugrym'll like you just fine with your boots on!"
Through a wild web of disheveled hair, Sharantyr gave him her best glareand overbalanced. She fell over helplessly, boot half og to land hard on her behind. Belkram hooted with laughter as she rolled angrily onto her back to remove the boot.
"He cast a lust-glamer on me, if you must know," she hissed, shaking her boot at him. Then she lifted the sole
and snatched the ring she needed, holding it up into his face. "Put this on Itharr. Then when he feels right, wear it yourself"
"This the one that regenerates?"
"Yes," Shar told him, stamping her boot back on, "and hurry! I want to be gone from here before ardent Amdramnar gets back!"
"He'll have put some sort of locking spell on the door, you know," Belluurri said warningly.
"Then our secret weapon'll blast a hole through the wall!" Shararityr hissed.
That won't be necessary. Sylune sounded amused. There's a secret door at the back of this room that opens into the castle library.
"The Malaugrym have a library? I'll bet Elminster would give his beard to sit down at leisure and read his way through it," Shar said aloud.
Belkram snorted. "Read it? He probably wrote most of it!" He watched Itharr's bleeding stop, and the gash on the burly Harper's forehead begin to fade. "Sylun's looked around for us?"
"Hush!" Shar told him severely. Touch and hold him, Sylune told her. So Sharantyr walked to Belkram, put her arms around him, and kissed him.
He stiffened with a grunt of pain as she embraced his injured shoulder, but as their lips met Sylun said through them, Well done. Now I can speak to you both at once. Be very careful. Beyond this door is one of the most powerful Shadowmasters, waiting for you to come through. He's too strong to fight but will leave you alone as tools to be used later, if you impress him. Act fearless and mysterious... and no clowning, Belkram. If you do this, you just might live. Leave the secret door open behind you-wedge it with that table leg over thereso Amdramnar can come to the rescue if you need rescuing.
"If he tries what he intends with me," Shar told her darkly, letting go of BeIluum, "he'll need the rescuing."
"Come back, lass," Belkram said pleadingly, and puckered his lips. "I was getting used to it!"
"Later," Sharantyr told him briskly, taking up her
blade and cutting the air with it a few times. "We've got a castle full of Malaugrym to deal with first!"
"Couldn't I just buy you a nice meal," Belkram offered, "and a little too much wine? No?" He looked mournful. "It used to work," he told Itharr wearily. "What went wrong?"
Itharr started to laugh, then clutched at his temples in pain, wincing. A few breaths later, the ring's magic had repaired him enough to sigh, swing himself off the table, and hand the ring to Belkram.
"Heal thyself, dolt," he said, "and hurry, or we'll have a lust-crazed Malaugrym all over her, and that'll sure slow her down when we start running through this place trying to escape."
Belkram put on the ring and looked at Shan "Ready?"
She lifted her sword in response, and the two Harpers drew their blades again. Shar stepped between them and did as Sylim directed. A part of the wall that looked as solid as the rest grated suddenly aside. Belkram was ready with the table leg.
The room beyond was crowded with ornate bookshelves. The narrow aisle between them ran to the right, and the three rangers followed it cautiously, peering around a corner to look straight into the politely smiling face of a handsome man in a maroon monk's cassock, who sat at a table with several books. open in front of him.
"Please be seated and take your ease," the man said, closing a book. It immediately lifted itself off the table and drifted over his shoulder, heading for a gap on one shelf. "No danger awaits you here."
A book floated out of the smooth ranks of tomes in another bookcase, heading for the table. As the volume opened itself for the Malaugrym's scrutiny, the three Faerunians saw that another book was also on the way. All over the library, volumes were drifting unhurriedly about in a continuous, graceful dance.
"And your name, sir, would be?" Sharantyr asked softly, sitting down. The sword in her hand flashed once.
With smooth effort, the man avoided looking at the bladebeware, this one is very dangerous, Sharantyr told herselfand said, "Milhvar of the Malaugrym. And
whom do I have the pleasure of addressing?"
"Sharantyr of Shadowdale, in Faer!an," Shar told him, "and these are my. . . companions, Belkram and Itharr."
"Adventurers come to explore the demiplane of Shadow?" Milhvar asked. "Or do you pursue a private purpose?"
"We came here by accident." Belkram replied, "but have become friends of Amdramnar. Others in this castle have not been so friendly."
"I've just heard talk of a duel or some such unpleasantness in the Hall of Stars," Milhvar said, briefly glancing at the contents of the tome in three places and then sending the book on its way again, "and you do seem to travel with cutting edges in plenty, ready for use. Have you any plans here in Shadowhome that I can help you with?"
"To get home again," Itharr offered. Milhvar raised his eyebrows.
'That's all? Just to leave, before you've seen more than a handful of rooms and a few warring kin? It seems a poor return for the dangers you've faced, surely?"
"I-" Shar began, but broke off, half-rising from her seat, when two other Malaugrym came hastily around a bookshelf.
Milhvar looked at her raised sword, then over his shoulder at the approaching pair, and said to her, "You can safely put that down. We rarely brawl on sight here in the castle, and never in the library There is too much of lasting value here." He closed another book and let it rise gently over his shoulder.
"Oh," he added, "be known, Sharantyr, Belkram, and Itharr of Shadowdalea most favorably named place, I must sayto Indyl and Thaune of the blood of Malaug. Have you business with our guests, you two?"
"We do," Thaune said excitedly. "Or at least, we hope so." He sat down on a corner of the table, ignoring Milhvar's pained look. "Olorres got it in for you. He's raging around the Great Hall vowing revenge and trying to whelm armies of us against you right now. Would you be willing to use that sword on him, if a couple of us cornered him and held his magic in check?"
"It's the only way you'll be safe from him," Indyl put in, lifting burning eyes from a steady scrutiny of the sword to fix Shar with disconcertingly bright golden irises. As if aware of how menacing his blazing gaze seemed, he hastily muted his eye color to a milky brown. "We've been waiting a long time for a chance to deal with him."
"How," Milhvar asked smoothly, before any of the rangers could reply, "will that sword be of any particular use against Olorn? Is it some sort of special blade?"
"It cut through every spell Olorn threw at them," Thaune said.
"Blieloris said it held them both up, when they triggered a trap-chute in the Red Chamber," Indyl added, news that made Milhvar's eyebrows leap upward. He turned his head to watch a third Malaugrym come around the bookshelf.
"Ah, Drelorr," Milhvar greeted him, "we have visitors from Toril."
"Aye," the newcomer said, leaning a leonine body forward to regard the sword Sharantyr was holding. Its tip pulsed with sudden radiance as he drew near. "This is the blade that burns flesh and makes wounds that won't heal."
"Won't heal?" The other two young Malaugrym drew back from the table with almost comical haste.
"Not at all?" Milhvar asked calmly.
Drelorr shrugged. "They can be spell-healed, right enough, but won't knit of themselves just by shifting shape." He looked at Sharantyr. "You wouldn't want to sell this sword to me, would you?"
Sharantyr shook her head.
"Could we borrow it, then? Or rent it for half a day?" "Sorry," Shar said. "No."
"Or will you work with us," Thaune suggested, "as we suggested before Drelorr arrived? We don't want to part you from your weapon, just bring its powers against Olorri."
"We've no interest in becoming any more entangled in the feuds of the House of Malaug than we have already become," Shar said carefully, "and so I must decline."
She stiffened as the blade flashed, then she relaxed. "Nor will spells dupe or force me into relinquishing it," she added dryly. The next probe was more intense, and she felt the faint vibrations of Sylune working spells of her own.
Sharantyr rose smoothly to her feet, and the Harpers rose with her. "If you're all through trying spells on me as if I were some sort of passing beetle, we'd like to pass on out of the library. .."
Behind her, Belkram snarled, "Shar!"
She whirled around to see his sword inches from her, his face twisted with strain as he fought against the magic compelling him.
And then she felt the terrible cold of Itharr's blade sliding into her flank.
"Mystra!" she cried, and slashed out behind her blindly. One of the Malaug-rym screamed, and she saw fingers flying as she kept turning, striking Itharr's blade out of his hand as she came.
Fire was spreading from the ice in her side, and Shar wondered if this was to be her dying day. Easy, lass, Sylun said inside her, and she felt the pain suddenly lessen.
Milhvar was watching her calmly as she staggered, put all the contempt and disgust she felt into the look she gave him, lurched around, and went back through the door into the dusty room full of tables.
Belkram and a weeping Itharr came after her. The Malaugrym were right behind them, flinging out tentacles that Sylun smashed aside with a spell Shar never saw.
The next spell sent a ball of fire crashing through the door into Milhvar's precious library, and they heard his startled shout.
He must have raised some sort of hasty spell-barrier, because the fiery blast came back into the dusty little room, flinging three tortured young Malaugrym with it. Their ashen bodies thudded off the walls amid blazing tables as the three rangers staggered out into the room of casks.
The pain in her side had subsided into a dull ache, now, but Shar didn't resist when Belkrarn seized her hand and thrust a ring onto one of her ringers. "Your turn," he grunted, and shook Itharr like a frilly lounge cushion. "Stop wailingshe's fine!"
Itharr sobbed, blinked, hiccuped, and fell silent.
And deep within her Sharantyr heard Sylune say, Trust Me, and felt the sword twitched from her fingers.
There was a momentary flicker of blue light. Then the sword was back, humming and glowing as before but with a subtly different weight to it. Shar cut at the air experimentally as they crossed the room, heading for the door through which Amdramnar had brought them here. No, the sword was somehow different.
And then fire snatched it from her fingers, and shadows howled around her wrist. She grabbed for it in vain and saw it spinning away from her, globed in shadows, to hang near the ceiling.
Light was growing all around them now as Olorn stepped out from behind a cask and waved his hand. Belkram and Itharr froze in midcurse, immobile. Sharantyr grabbed at her belt dagger, but shadows were sliding around her wrists and ankles, thrusting them inexorably apart.
Olorn laughed again and strolled toward her. Behind him, many Malaugrym were entering the room, cruel excitement in their faces.
"I've stood more than enough insolence from mortal wenches in the past," he said to Shar, "and you're just one more. I had breeding plans for you, but you're not good enough to sully myself with." His right hand wriggled then, becoming a tentaclea long, thin, dark tentacle with eel-like jaws. "So instead," he announced brightly, "I've decided to make a meal of you!" The tentacle rose, like a swaying cobra, then bent and came straight across the room at her, gliding horizontally through the air.
Shar was spread-eagled on thin air by then, floating off the floor in the grip of shadows that had become as hard as iron. Her face was closest to the tentacle, and as it approached her, snakelike, she felt shadows tugging at her
lips and the corners of her mouth.
She fought against the steely strength of the shadows, teeth clenched, but the tentacle slid lazily closer and her jaws were being forced apart. No!
A long moment passed, the eager Malaugryrn audience silently watching her struggle. She fought in vain. In the end, her mouth was open wide and held that way, jaw quivering with the strain.
The tentacle slid between her teeth, probing ahead with a tip to hold her tongue down. Then it expanded, filling her mouth with its foulness. . . and began to get warmer.
"A little roast tongue to start with," Olorn said jovially, and the Malaugryrn laughed in cruel chorus. As the pain began to build, Sharantyr discovered that she could still breathebut she could no longer scream.
21
Shabows CLoak, but Make
a Bettea Stwou
The Castle of Shadows, Kythorn 20
Tears of helpless rage welled up in Sharantyr's throat, and she struggled frantically against the shadow-bonds that manacled her. They shifted a little . and a little more. She could move!
Then she saw that the Malaugrym were laughing at her, enjoying her futile midair squirmings and swayings, and Olorn was sending another tentacle her way with taunting slowness.
"What part of her shall we play with now?" he asked the other Shadowmasters. The tentacle twitched as an eager chorus of suggestions rang out. Sharantyr closed her eyes. She'd never dreamed that dying could be this bad, or this slow. By the sounds of it, midair surgery could go on for days, if they kept herparts of heralive with their spells. Mystra and Tymora hear me, she prayed fervently, if you can't deliver me from this, at least make it quick!
And then the tentacle in her mouth quivered-no, shuddered and she heard Olorn scream. Her eyes snapped open in sudden wild hope.
A blue blade was glowing in the air, flashing in ghostly hands, flashing through Olorn again and again, transfixing him. Blue flames licked around his body as he struggled to change shape. His tentacle abruptly receded from Shar's mouth but failed to escape the blade that was chopping him apart.
Pieces of the Malaugrym, great writhing lumps, rained down onto the floor in flames. The room was full of wriggling shapes as the Malaugrym shouted and shifted shape and hurled spells at the ghostly swordswoman Sylun, her hair flying free behind her as she flew about
the room, hacking and slashing. The flashing blue blade turned back all the spells sent against her. . . back upon those who'd sent them.
Olorn must have died, because Shar found herself falling abruptly to the floor. As she landed painfully on knees and elbows, she saw the two Harpers stagger out of their immobility. High overhead, the shadow globe fell apart, and the false blue blade it had held began to fade slowly out of existence.
The room was slaughterhouse chaos now, as Sylun dealt death to the Malaugrym. She rose up out of the heart of them for a moment and calmly cast a transmutation spell; the dagger_in Shar's hand quivered.
She looked down at it. The good steel now shone with a glossy silver plating, and she could see Belkram's sword and Itharr's dagger were the same. With a shout, Sharantyr raced across the room and buried her tiny fang in the nearest Malaugrym.
He screamed. Sharantyr matched it with a shriek of her own, a shout of anger and disgust as she poured out all she'd held in check since seeing Old Elminster's dripping head snatched away from them in Daggerdale. She waded into shifting arms and tentacles and beaks, snapping fanged jaws and swimming thousands of eyes, hacking at rubbery flesh that smoked and shriveled where her blade touched it.
The room rocked again. She spun around to face the spell-flash.
"This has gone far enough," Milhvar said coldly from where he'd just appeared in the center of the room. At his last word, his prepared spell struck, hurling everyone back against the walls with bruising force.
Everyone except a certain flying ghostly form, who smiled a crooked smile at him and hurled a glowing blue blade through the air.
Point-first it slashed across the room, humming as it went, and Shar saw Milhvar's lips working in frantic haste.
Abruptly he was gone in a cloud of sweat, and another body was in his place. The Malaugrym mage Iyritar
screamed as the sword of Mystra tore into him.
Impaled on the blade, Iyritar flailed his hands about vainly, clawing at the air in his agony.
From the wall where Iy-ritar had been, Milhvar stepped forth, weaving another spell as the three rangers tore free of his fading bindings and launched themselves from the walls with silver blades raised.
Sylun abruptly winked out. Shar stared up at where she'd been in astonished horror, slowing in her run. Itharr's shout of alarm dragged her eyes down to see what Milhvar's magic had wrought.
Iyritar's gore was on fire, blazing with scarlet flames as it sprayed from the dying Malaugrym's body and spread out to form a sphere of blood arourid the sorcerer's limp form, with the blade of Mystra lodged in it. In seconds the sphere was complete. Milhvar wiped sweat from his brow with one hand and visibly relaxed.
A smile crept slowly onto his face as he stepped forward and held up a hand to slow the charging Harpers with a magical wall. From behind its invisible safety he told them, "Without your precious blade, you're trapped here, to become our playthings or slavesor carrion, if you prefer. Like all humans, your fates will befall you swiftly."
Behind Milhvar, a faint ghostly form faded into view, lit by the red radiance of the blood-sphere. Sylun was frowning in concentration as she thrust a hand into the red flames.
The three rangers saw her spectral body arch in agony, but it was the sphere that moaned.
"Stop trying to get at the blade, Argast," Milhvar said sharply, without turning to look. "You'll get badly hurt if you persist. The blood-sphere works against Malaugrym just as well as mortals."
The Shadowmaster elder strode toward the rangers, and the invisible wall moved with him, forcing them back. The sphere moaned again as Sylun, her face twisted in pain, thrust herself through it and held herself there. The sword burst free, trailing blood in a long arc of droplets as it soared high into the air.
The ghostly Witch of Shadow dale fell away from the blood-sphere, face pinched with pain, but managed to raise one trembling aru to point at Milhvar.
In silent obedience the blade leapt across the chamber and burst through the heart of Milhvar of the Malau-
"No! No! Not . . . when I have . . . the cloak ..." he sobbed, doubling over and flickering in and out of visibility. Sylun's eyes narrowed, and she whispered a soft word of power.
Blue flames rolled out of the blade from end to end, licking swiftly up the Shadowmaster's body. He faded from view, but the flames could still be seen. He faded back into visibility, bent over and staggering, trying vainly to reach something only he could see across the chamber, but moving only inches.
He faded from view once more, so that only the blue flames could be seenflames that rose and rose hungrily, outlining an upright human form at the last as they roared up into a hungry pillar that parted the shadows and ate through the ceiling and kept on burning away shadows, like mist parting before the hot sun.
* * * *
In a place of chiming shadows, a stream of white fire
that gave off no heat faltered, flickered-and ended, leav-
ing a disembodied, white-bearded head floating alone. The head chuckled and said, "Done, then? Well done, I
should say!" and faded slowly away.
* * * * *
"Are you whole?" Sylun asked softly, standing barefoot in the air before them.
Belkram grinned up at her. "I could ask you the same question," he replied. "I can see through you!"
She put her hands on her hips and said tartly, "But I am the lady of us two, and I asked first ... so answer, sirrah!"
Shar and Itharr chuckled at that, and fell into each other's arms weak with relief. "Yes ... we're whole," Shar gasped, "I think . . ."
"Good," Sylun said crisply. "Then have the sense for once to sit still. I've work to do yet."
She raised her hands and cast a spell they'd all seen worked before: a simple telekinesis magic. The blade thrummed happily as it took the spell, and again when the ghostly witch cast an extension spell on top of her first magic.
Then she sank down onto Belkram's shoulder, crossed her legs gracefully, and closed her eyes. Driven by her will, the sword of Mystra spun about and shot to the wall, in the direction of the Hall of Stars.
It struck the wall and hung quivering there, and the shadows around it began to melt and run, flowing away from it.
When the wall was gone, the blade leapt on to the next barrier.
"Gods!" Itharr swore suddenly. "She's burning away the castle!"
They scrambled up, and a.look of annoyance crossed Sylun's ghostly face. "Don't let me fall, you great lout," she told Bellu-am, opening her eyes. "I may weigh nothing, but I don't appreciate being bounced on my head on floors made of shadow. To me, they seem very solid."
"It's all right if we move about, then?" the Harper asked her.
She frowned. 'Yes, it's better if you do, I suppose. Follow the sword. If any Malaugrym show up to do battle, it can drink their spells and shield you."
And that is what befell. As the Hall of Stars boiled away into the black emptiness of distant shifting shadows that is Shadowhome, the three rangers saw a tower beyond it topple soundlessly down into the Well of Shadows.
"Don't destroy it all," Shar said to the ghostly form riding on Belkram's shoulder.
"I haven't the time to do so if I wanted to," Sylune told her. "I am going to ruin the Great Hall of the Throne,
though, and carve up the Shadow Throne. I want the Malaugrym to know they were defeated this day, not just that some lucky humans got loose and managed to do a bit of damage while escaping."
There were a lot of walls between the Well and the Great Hall, and the adventurers soon caught up to the blue blade. It melted away one last wall and then flew down a long corridor into the Chamber of the Veils, the last antechamber before the Great Hall.
As the veils blazed up around the sword, Malaugrym melted out of invisibility all over the chamber. Ahorga, Bheloris, and several others faced them, Malaugrym the rangers knew by sight if not by name. They saw grim determination, and fear, on the shapeshifters' faces.
Sylun spread her hands an instant before forty or more spells crashed down upon them. The room rang with her high, wild laugh of exultation as the spells all flashed back against those who'd hurled them.
The chamber rocked; balconies broke off and crashed to the tiles below. All over the chamber, Malaugrym bodies collapsed, slain by their own spells, or sagged back in pain and flickered out of sight as contingencies and rings took them elsewhere.
Amid the veils, the blue blade began a sudden spiral. Sylun looked up at it and said a very unladylike word.
As they all looked up at her in amazementand Belkram almost dropped herthe entire chamber shook, pulsed under their feet, and grated into life, joining the spiral. The shadows moved slowly at first, then faster and faster, a whistling drone around them rising slowly toward a scream.
"Sylun! What's happening?" ltharr shouted.
The blade struck a gate and is taking us all with it in a vortex," the Witch of Shadowdale announced calmly. "Watch this closely . . you'll probably never be in one again. They're often fatal."
"Thanks," Belkram told her feelingly as they began to whirl around faster and faster. "Are you going to do something about it?"
"I am doing something about it, overly muscled one,"
Sylune' told him crisply. "I'm calling on the sword's powers to make sure the vortex takes us to Faerim and not into the fires of Dis, say, or a plane of endless fire or antimatter."
"What part of Faerian?" Belkram called back over the mounting shriek of the vortex. She turned blazing eyes on him until she saw his teasing grin, then she punched him instead.
And the world fell apart.
*****
Daggerdale, Kythorn 20
The blue blade sizzled deep into the turf of a familiarlooking hillside with a ruined manor house at its top and a decrepit bridge across a stream at the bottom.
As they tumbled to the grass in a last slow spiral, the blade exploded in blue radiant shards that went spinning past them, soft blue shards that dissolved into the shimmering air in moments. The sword of Mystra was gone as if it had never been. As Mystra no longer was.
Three rangers and a spectral sorceress sat up and blinked. Around them, seven other figures rose too, beings who had tails and spike-studded arms and angrily curling tentacles.
"Oh, blast!" BeIkram cursed, and several Malaugrym flinched, expecting a spell to explode over them at his words.
When nothing befell, they acquired cruel smiles and flexed their tentacles and barbed tails and pincer claws, Then they began the slow climb up the hillside toward the rangers in tattered leathers. The ghostly woman who'd been with them had disappeared.
"To come all this way . . ." Shar said, close to tears, as she saw sure death coming up the hill toward her.
"See the world! Have daring adventures! Join the Harpers!" Belkrarn and Itharr chorused, in the deepest, most stirring and cultured town crier voices they could manage. And they waved their weapons.
"Hey, breeding maiden!" Belkram called. "Catch!"
His swordstill silvercame flashing through the air to her. Sharantyr caught it, tears in her eyes at his gesture, as she saw him draw a boot dagger, salute her with it, and stand beside Itharr. Each them held two drawn daggers to use against seven ever-changing monsters.
"Mystra and Tymora," Shar said between her teeth, "this is not fair!"
She raised the sword wearily, resolved to die welland white light broke over the hillside, fire that raged briefly across the Malaugrym.
The shapeshifters danced in agony. When the fire subsided, all stood in human form. There were gasps of horror from the Malaugrym, and frantic cries as they tried to shift shape and could not.
Ahorga, face streaming sweat with the effort, finally managed to produce wings. He sprang back, retreating down the hill, and cried, "I go now, cowards! Know that you've made a foe forever this day! I'll be back!"
"Don't hurry," Belkram called to him as the shapeshifter flapped his wings and climbed heavily into the sky. As Ahorga turned into the wind, to rise, Belkram thought he saw that great shaggy head bare its teeth in a cold answering grin. Then the Malaugrym mounted the winds and soared aloft.
Two more shapeshifters, panting and groaning with the effort, overcame Sylun's magic and managed the same trick. They wasted no breath on proud exit lines because by then their audience was gone.
Men and women were rolling over and over in the grass, tearing at each other in desperate fury, one side trying to snatch weapons and the other, smaller side trying to use them.
While the two Malaugrym flew frantically away from any place where that ghostly sorceress might be able to see them, Sylun used her last forcebolt to blow apart the head of a Shadowmaster who was throttling Belkram.
As the smoking, headless body toppled sideways, Belkram rolled to his feet to find Itharr and a blooddrenched but unhurt Sharantyr doing the same thing.
They stood looking soberly at each other across the corpses.
Itharr said with a sigh, "we're back?'
From out of the ruins of the manor atop the hill, something small and dark came flying. Belkram snatched up a fallen dagger to make a throw, hut the object banked smoothly past him and he saw that it was a pipe. A curved, familiar-looking pipe that trailed wisps of smoke and drifted to a halt in their midst.
"Back, are ye?" The voice that issued from it was even more familiar, and as testy as ever. "A fine mess ye leapt into, and stirred up further, to he sure!"
"That wouldn't be who I think it is, would it?" Belkram asked wearily as Sharantyr groaned and covered her
eyes.
"Aye," Itharr replied. "It would be."
THE SHADOW OF THE AVATAR, BOOK THREE
ALL SHADOWS FLED
By Ed Greenwood

Away, Shadows, away! I grow tired of slaying thee . ..
and presently I shall grow angry. Then you'll be sorry!
The Simbul, Queen of Aglarond
Said in spell-battle before all her court
Year of Shadows

Prologue
Three living heroes and a ghost dared to take an enchanted blade out of the world, hunting shapeshifters in their ancient Castle of Shadows....
For centuries, the Malaugrym had been dark figures of legend, fey sorcerers who could take any shape they chose. They came to Faerun to impersonate kings and reavers and archmages, to entertain themselves with the havoc they could wreakand to seize mortal women as breeding slaves, carrying them off across the planes to the place they called Shadowhome.
When the famous archmage Elminster of Shadow-dale caught Malaugrym in Faerun, they paid with their lives. Twice he journeyed to the Castle of Shadows to humble the House of Malaug... but no mere mortal had ever made such a foray and returned to Faerun to tell of it.
Until Lady Sharantyr, Knight of Myth Drannor; Bel-kram and Itharr of the Harpers; and the ghostly remnant of Sylune, Witch of Shadowdale, went up against the shapeshifters armed with the Sword of Mystra. And with that sword, Sharantyr cut her way back from the brink of death and out of the Castle of Shadows, slaying many of the evil shapeshifters as she went.
Unfortunately, most of them still lived, and vowed revenge on four new foes. More entered Faerun with the returning heroes and escaped to wander the Realms at will.
Even worse, Faerun was much as they'd left it: in the throes of the magical chaos, bloodshed, and lawlessness of the Time of Troubles, when the gods themselves walked the Realms, no magic could be trusted, and fire and fury raged across the lands.
It was a time for heroes, and the four who'd escaped the Castle of Shadows found Elminster, the Old Mage, waiting for them, with orders to undertake still more perilous tasks in the desperate work of saving civilized Faerun.
And the Malaugrym were waiting for them, too....
If Begins with a Flame
Faerun, Daggerdale, Kythorn 20, Year of Shadows
The wind rose and whistled through the stones of a roofless, ruined manor house on a grassy hillside in Daggerdale. The trampled slope was strewn with tentacled, jellylike, eye-studded nightmare bodies.
Three weary, wild-eyed rangers and a ghostly lady hastened up the hill from the monsters they'd slain, running like starving men to a banquet table. They hurried toward a man who sat in the ruins.
The gaunt, white-bearded old man sat on what was left of a crumbling wall and serenely smoked a pipe. He looked at them all, smiled, and spat out this smoke belcher. It rose smoothly upward to float by his ear, spouting wisps of smoke that curled away to be lost in the quickening breeze. *Te deserve congratulations for one thing, at least," he announced.
After the silence had begun to stretch, Itharr sighed and asked in tones that were just respectful, "And what, Lord Elminster, would that be?"
"Keeping thyselves alive," Elminster told him dryly.
"I heard an 'at least' in there," Sylune put in. Her silvery tresses hung still around her eerily translucent face despite the gusting wind. Beside her, the blood-spattered lady ranger Shar shot her an amused look through her own wind-whipped hair.
Elminster glared severely at the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale. "There is a little matter of bringing a trio or more of Malaugrym into Faenin, and allowing'them to wander off untraced and untrammeled, to work their wanton wills across the land."
" *Work their wanton wills' ... I like that; 'twould fit nicely into a purple Harper ballad," Sylune replied serenely. "My choice, Old Mage, was between the lives of these three heroesnay, no wincing, now; they've more than earned the titleand those of a few shapeshifters. / think my decision was the right one... and if you disagree so strongly, why did you not take action yourself? You must have been here watching us."
"Been here, aye. Watching, no," the Old Mage replied, eyes on the hillside below themwhere, at his magical bidding, the horribly distorted bodies of the Malaugrym were rising into the air and catching fire. "I was tossing meteor swarms over the turrets of Telflamm, half a world away."
"By the gods, the bardic phrases keep flowing, like . .." The ghost sorceress paused meaningfully.
"Nightsoil from a hurled bucket?" Belkram offered helpfully.
Sylune rolled her eyes and continued, "And your reason for this... ah, fiery behavior?"
El grinned. "I was feeding a wild magic area to make it grow into a shield against Red Wizards ... so I could turn my attention closer to home."
Belkram caught the first whiff of burning flesh and spun around, raising the gory daggers he held ready in both hands. Seeing the source of the smell, he relaxed. A certain grim satisfaction grew on his face as he watched the bodies of their foes burn. Sharantyr gave the midair cremation a single quick glance and turned her gaze back to the Old Mage.
"I know you well enough, Elminster," she said levelly, "to know that such words always lead us to another of your 'little tasks'... and I'd appreciate knowing what this one is without a lot of clever tongue-fencing. Several Malaugrymone in particularhave about used up my patience for today." As she stared challengingly at the Old Mage, Shar flexed her aching jaw. Her mouth, scorched by a Malaugrym tentacle whose foul taste she could still remember, was throbbing painfully, and her tongue was a thick, numb thing.
As her companions looked at the usually merry Shar in surprise, Elminster inclined his head and said, "Plain speaking is wise in any case, Lady Knight. Know, then: thy swords and spellsand all of ye, with themare urgently needed in the coming defense of Shadowdale. I'm here to send ye where ye're most needed in that fight."
"The Zhentarim?" Sylune asked shortly. It was more statement than question.
As if her words had been some sort of cue, the world around them was suddenly a cold place of endlessly streaming white flames, and her companions stood frozen amid the conflagration. The last thing the Witch of Shadowdale heard was Elminster's disgusted cry: "Ah, no! Not again!" And then his tattered words were whirled away from her, and all that was left was the ceaseless roaring....
After what must have been a very long time, Sylune knew herself again. She was all that was left of the woman widely known as the Witch of Shadowdale. .. .
She was Sylune. Still a ghost... and still in Faerun. Hanging in the heart of the roaring.
All around her, flames that did not burn streamed endlessly past her motionless friends and the crumbling stones of the manor. But she could move and think... though the cold white flames made her tremble uncontrollably as they roared through her.
Sylune found she could move, if she bent her will hard to the doing. Let us be doing, then.
With slow determination, she drifted nearer the Old Mage, sitting motionless on his bit of wall. His hands were uplifted and his lips open, wearing the disgusted frown of his realization that whatever it was had caught him again.
So they were in some sort of trap. A magical trap, though its flameswhich didn't seem to harm anythinghad withstood the wildness of magic stalking Faerun for some time; it seemed. Some of the wildflowers growing amid the stones had bloomed and withered since the magic had begun. The companions had been here for days, then. Sylune wished she could sigh. I've not been a ghost long enough to learn patience for waits that may well take years.
She looked at the Old Mage's pipe, still floating beside his head where he'd left it, and saw that the flames bent around it.
They seemed to be avoiding it! Sylune stared at the spell-flames narrowly for a time; they boiled up out of nowhere on one side of the ruins, arced over her frozen companions, and then returned in an endless rush to nowhere on the far side of the broken walls. It was some sort of stasis field that avoided Elminster's small, curved, ever-smoking pipe.
So, the pipe yet radiated its own magicand floated on its own, not frozen by the flames. She frowned. He'd once been able to teleport with it, hadn't he?
She drifted nearer, noticing faint wisps of smoke curling up out of the pipe bowl ever so slowly and rising to mingle with the onrushing flames.
She eyed it. This was probably going to hurt.
Mystra, if any part of you is still around to hear, she thought firmly, aid me now. And with the resolve still strong in her, she surged forward, thinning a part of her essence into the pipe.

Magics swirled and tore at her, defenses against tampering that bore Elminster's trademark spell-upon-spell interlacing. Gods, the pain!
Whirling around in a silent scream, Sylune found that the pipe could teleport vapor in and away, in an endless cyclegiving her an escape whenever she wishedand could also transport anyone who touched it and willed it, thus, from place to place.
Elminster sat frozen, but perhaps she could guide the pipe to him... yes! That very movement was a direction he'd given the pipe several times recently, so how to do it was displayed right in front of her!
Sylune swirled around the pipe and moved it down toward the Old Mage's mouth. The flames bent away from her, and grim satisfaction rose within her as she made the slow, drifting journey. This was going to work!
At last the pipe touched the Old Mage's lips, but he sat open-mouthed, unmoving, and she could feel no quickening of will within him, only the endless roaring. The magic was binding his wits, then. Of course it must be, or he'd have used spellfire to drink it down to nothingness long ago. Sylune wanted to sigh again.
Perhaps she could force a teleport byoh, gods, this might well be the last thing she ever did, the last moment she knew.
Farewell, Faerun, Sylune thought, and flowed back into the pipe. She must will it to take the Old Mage away from here, to the meadow. The meadow where Sharantyr had danced about with a glowing sword in the depths of the nighta lifetime ago, it seemedin the meadow just over there.
And then white flames roared up between her ears and up her throat and the world exploded, whirling her away...
Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 15  
"I have seen enough shadow weaving and clearing away of dead kin and rubble to last me many an eon," the gigantic horned worm declared in a voice that echoed in the far corners of the cavernous room, "and Shadowhome is rebuilt sufficiently to set my gorge at easefor now."
With a rattle of huge chitin plates, he glided into the dim, shadowed chamber, and there dwindled into a bald, long-tailed, gray-scaled humanoid. Othortyn of the Malaugrym eyed his minions, a pair of tentacled lesser kin who peered into the flickering, floating light of a scrying portal at the center of the chamber. Othortyn shifted his tail and asked irritably, "So how've you two been wasting your time?"
"Watching what befalls in the world of the humans," Inder said boldly, "as you commanded." His quiet companion, Hastrim, nodded but said nothing.
"And what have you found?" Othortyn asked, settling himself on a crumbling stone throne that was almost as old as he.
"The ambitious humans who dwell in Zhentil Keep, bolstered by their godor one who claims to be Bane have gone to war," Inder said in a voice swift and shrill with excitement. "They've sent four armies into adjacent lands, the largest by road into Shadowdale... where the Great Foe dwells."
"And what befell this force sent against Elminster?" Othortyn asked quietly.
"Some local human mage called down lightnings and cooked many in their armor... and then the Foe turned a few thousand into boulders while they were camped at a place called Voonlar. No doubt he planned to transform them all, but"
Othortyn blanched. "Mass transformation? You dare to tell me that the Great Foe can turn whole armies into toads? I've not heard that sort of nonsense since I was a youngling and pranksome elders tried to scare me with wild tales of human wizards!"
Inder met his master's gaze steadily. "Didn't you believe those tales?" he asked quietly.
Othortyn glowered. "So, just how many spells, oh wise apprentice, do these wizards hurl around that I don't know about?" he asked, voice heavy with sarcasm. As he eyed the younger Malaugrym, his tail curled out to open a door that had been secret for long years. He took out a dusty bottle from the dark niche beyond.
Inder shrugged. "Several thousand, perhaps."
"So, with all this magic to hurl about, reshaping worlds," Othortyn snarled, the end of his tail rearing back and lengthening into a hollow stinger, "why did oh-so-mighty Elminster stop making his rocks before the whole host was done?"
Inder frowned as his master pierced the cork of the bottle and drank deeply. The apprentice said, "His spellas would any mighty magic, we believecreated an area of wild magic... which is still spreading. A wizard would see such a thing as the greatest danger of all, and would do nothing to aid its spreadnor dare to risk himself in its vicinity."
"So the Great Foe did not confront his own foes directly," Hastrim added, "fearing for his skin."
"He turned instead to the other armies, where only lesser mages stood against him," Inder continued, "and"
"Speak no more of the Foe," the old Shadowmaster said sharply. "What has become of our kin who reached Faerun?"
"Atari, Yinthrim, and Revered Elder Ahorga survived the battle with the three accursed humans who came here," Inder said in more sober tones, "and seem to be roaming Faerun in many shapes, learning its ways and uses."
"Others of our house have found their own, separate ways into Faerun," Hastrim added. "We have scryed
Bralatar and Lorgyn, and seen one other, whom we believe to be Lunquar, get of Byatra...." His voice trailed away, and there was a little silence.
"Is that all?" Othortyn growled. "I thought Jaster had gathered a dozen or more eager younglings around him!"
"He did," Inder said quickly, "but when Starner came to you with word that the Great Foe was caught in the loop trap you cast at their gate, you told him to gather all kin with spells to spare and make haste to"
"Blast all who defy me!" Othortyn roared, and lightning leapt from his eyes like two darting white flames, roaring across the chamber to swallow up Inder and the scrying portal with him.
Hastrim staggered back with a startled sob as his companion and their spell vanished into wisps of curling smoke.
"I did tell you, Inder, not to mention the Great Foe again," Othortyn said chidingly. Then he turned his head from the drifting smoke and said politely to Hastrim, "Please continue with the exposition of events that Inder so abruptly abandoned..."
Hastrim stared at him in stunned silence, face pale. Muscles rippled around his mouth as he fought for calm.
"Feel free to be as clever as you feel necessary," the old Shadowmaster said soothingly.
Hastrim looked at Othortyn, and then his gaze fell again to regard the greasy curls of smoke that had been Inder. He swallowed.
"Well," he said unhappily, "perhaps it would be best to begin when it was first noticed that three humans bearing a magic swordhad somehow stepped from Faerun into the heart of Shadowhome... undetected."
"Good, good," the old, bald Shadowmaster said encouragingly, opening another bottle. "Would you like something to drink?"
"Er" Hastrim began, and then added with sudden firmness, "Yes," and a long, snakelike tentacle put a dusty bottle in his hand.
*****
Faerun, Dagger-dale, Flamerule 15
"Easy, lass," a familiar voice rumbled as Sylune" of Shadowdale slowly blinked her way back into awareness. " Twas well done, to be sure. Ye shattered a spell loop, a very nasty Malaugrym magicand there were a dozen of them waiting with all the spells they could think of, for us to break out. It's probably best that Shar and the lads were stunned when ye hurled me elsewhere. It saved them from about forty mind-rending attacks, and left me free to use the sort of Art that was really necessary."
Elminster gestured down the hillside, and Sylune saw rainbow swirlings there, above torn earth and blasted stumps. The trees around the stream and the leaning bridge were no more... and no doubt the gate to the Shadowmasters' home plane was gone too.
"A wild magic area?" she whispered.
"I fear so," Elminster replied grimly, "but the gate is gone forever, and a score or so more Malaugrym with it."
Sylune shuddered and drifted up out of his hands. Except for the few stones where the Old Mage was sittingwell west of where he had beenthe ruined manor was now a crater of mud and gravel.
She swirled back to face him. "How long has it been since we came back from the Castle of Shadows?"
"Nigh on a month," Elminster said quietly.
Sylune" nodded grimly. "I thought so. Has Shadow-dale fallen?"
Elminster gave her a twisted grin. "Not yet." He got up and trudged west, into the trees. "Come to the meadow."
Sylune drifted along beside him, suddenly reluctant to be alone. The old wizard had taken only a few paces before they emerged into a field of trodden grass where Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr sat, looking up with welcoming smiles.
"Thankee, and all that," Itharr said, his broad shoulders shifting as he smiled.
"All part of my orders," Sylune told him briskly, giving Elminster a meaningful look, "as enunciated by the tyrant mage here."
"Ah, yes," Belkram said. "I believe I know just how you feel."
"Yes," Sharantyr agreed crisply. "I think it's about time, Old Mage, that you told us what befell Faerun while we were all caught in this magic."
"You might have revived us sooner," Itharr added darkly.
Elminster looked at the burly ranger. "It took me days to repair and rebuild thy bodies, all three of ye. I had to use necromantic spells I haven't looked at in ages... and I do mean ages." He lifted an eyebrow. "Perhaps I didn't get thy head screwed on quite right."
"I" Itharr began, but Belkram interrupted him.
"If that's so, sirwhy do I feel weary, and in pain?"
"Aye!" Itharr agreed.
"The only way I could save ye at all," Elminster muttered, "was to restore ye to exactly as ye were before the trap took us. As it was, I nearly lost ye more than onceye in particular, Belkram, five times! The gods know I've grown used to never receiving the slightest thanks when I help folk, but betimes I think certain beneficiaries of my arts close enough to meand perceptive enough, toah, ne'er mind ..." He glared at the handsome Harper.
Belkram returned his look of anger.
"All right," Sharantyr said, looking from one to the other. "Enough. Tell us about the Realms, El."
Elminster's face grew calm as he nodded and said briskly, "Zhentilar armies march on Shadowdale from all sidesand the avatar of the god Bane rides with them, leading the main body himself."
"Faerun's flying dung," Sylune said crisply. The unaccustomed oath drew startled gazes her way. "Even if the dale can withstand such an assault," she said bitterly, "it'll be torn into smoking ruins in the doing." She turned to look south. "And after all these years, I'll see it destroyed after all."
"Be not so quick to surrender our home to the Black Gauntlet," Elminster said firmly. "/ shall be there, fighting to the last... and I've sent Zhentilar troops running bootless away from Shadowdale more times than I care to recall."
"If three swords can make a difference in this, sir," Belkram said heavily, "things must be bad. Tell us in truth what's befallen thus far ... where are the Zhents now?"
Elminster nodded. "Four armies are on the march," he said, all trace of testiness gone. "The one coming down through Voonlar is the largest, though my friend Perendra took care of a goodly number of the fools by calling up a lightning storm. Fancy marching through a downpour in full armor; some of these warriors must have cold iron between their ears, not just over them! Meanwhile, I dealt with a few thousand more."
"Oh? How do you 'deal with' a few thousand Zhent troops?" Belkram asked, shifting into a more comfortable slouch in the grass. The more he dealt with arch-mages, the more it was becoming obvious that their shared concept of 'haste' allowed time for thorough discussions of everything.
"Carefully, lad," Elminster told him predictably. "Carefully."
The two Harpers sighed together... and had many other opportunities to sigh as the wizard rambled on. At one point Belkram muttered despairingly, "Get on with it!" under his breath.
He'd spoken a trifle too loudly. The Old Mage's eyebrows rose, and Belkram gulped,
"Patience certainly seems to be the provision ye used up most in the shadows," El observed mildly as his pipe glided in to find its way to his lips. He blew a slow, spreading smoke ring and then banished his pipe again. Teleportation is one thing that still seems reliable among all this chaos of Art, so I spent the better part of the highsun hours yesterday transporting a dozen monstershydras, firedrakes, wyverns, behirs, death kisses, and the likeinto the camp of the second, central force, north of the Flaming Tower."
Belkram chuckled, but Shar looked troubled. "What's to stop their using spells to drive those beasts before them, south into the heart of Shadowdale?"
"Me," the Old Mage told her impishly. "I took care of their mages first." He watched another smoke ring drift away on the wind and added, "Some of the beasts I sent into their midst were rather hungry, too."
"Can't Bane teleport just as easily as you can?" Itharr asked quietly.
Elminster nodded his approval at such tactical thought. "Of course. Hell have to come to the aid of his Central Blade or lose the lot of them... but the doing will keep him occupied for a time, too busy to work other mischief." He ran fingers through his beard. "The same consideration governed my treatment of the smallest force. Fzoul's leading four hundred or so mounted men-at-arms past us right now, through Daggerdale."
"Four hundred Zhentilar?" Belkram asked, holding up his daggers. "You want us to take down four hundred warriors? Shouldn't we get horses to ride on, just to make it a little fairer?"
Shar and Itharr snorted together. Sylune reclined gracefully on thin air, as if sprawled on a couch, and awaited Elminster's answer.
The Old Mage shook his head and asked softly, "Bold today, aren't we, friend Harper?"
Lesser men might have quailed before that tone, but Belkram merely shrugged, smiled, and waved at Elminster to continue.
Inclining his head in a mock bow of thanks, Elminster said, "That task is not yours." He lifted his lips in a mirthless grin. "I suspect a few ores can do it better."
"A few ores?" Sharantyr roared, her voice rising from deep and ragged tones, for all the world as if she were a burly male and not a lithe lady. "Elminster!" That last squeaked word of reproach sounded more like a lady's pique, and goaded Sylune into peals of tinkling laughter.
"Yestereve," Elminster told them in tones of injured innocence, "I approached several ore bands foraging in Daggerdale, and undertook to alert them that a well-provisioned Zhent force was entering the territory. That should make things a little warmer for Fzoul than he anticipated, and rob him of most opportunities to reach Shadowdale ahead of the other Zhent forces, hole up in the woods around Grimstead, and amuse himself by using his spells to harass the good folk of the dale."
"All right, El. You've been both clever and busy," Sylun6 reassured him, her voice soothing. Her next words, however, came out as sharp as the crack of a whip: "But so have we. My friends here grow stiff and tired and hungry. Armies march on Shadowdale from all sides, you said, and have told us of three, so what attack is coming from the southand what is our duty in dealing with it?"
Elminster bowed his head again to hide a grin, cleared his throat in apparent embarrassment, and said, "I need ye four to deal with the fourth Zhent attack: the Sword of the South. It's a band of Sembian mercenaries and the covert Zhentarim agents who hired them. They've been assembling in Battledale for a month and more, drawn from all over Sembia and the eastern dales."
"They're going to try to march through the Elven Court woods?" Shar asked, one shapely eyebrow raised. That's not a wise tactic for any armed band."
The Old Mage shook his head. "Their orders are to take and subdue Mistledale, and without pause press on up the Mistle Trail, to drive into Shadowdale from the south." He smiled gently. "You will stop them."
"I thought we were going to defend Shadowdale," Bel-kram said. "You may be able to dance around the Realms with a thought and a wiggle of your hips, but we have to walk... and I don't feel like running back and forth between two dales, sword in hand, through gods know how many Zhent blackhelms!"
Elminster held up a quelling hand. "I said I'd come to send ye where ye are most needed. Right now Shadow-dale is crowded with frightened troops bustling about. I don't want them to relax because the heroes have come to town, and I don't want them in thy way, or ye in theirs. Mistledale is thy battlefield. The defense of Mistledale will be the southern defense of Shadowdale."
"How strong is this fourth host?" Belkram asked suspiciously.
Elminster shrugged. "About seven thousand, when last I counted."
"Seven thousand!" Itharr burst out as jaws dropped all round.
Shar shook her head. "You love us, don't you?" she murmured.
El chuckled. "Oh, yell have help. All of Shar's battle companions, the Knights of Myth Drannor, are in Mistledale already, mustering the Riders."
"There are only thirty Riders, perhaps six more if the graybeards who can still walk and breathe at the same time come out of retirement, and another dozen if their sword apprentices ride with them, too," Sylune said softly, "and barely a dozen Knights, even if all who've retired or strayed off come running to Mistledale."
El frowned. "And ye, of course... isn't that battle might enough?"
"Ah, Old Mage," Sylune said gently, "you may not have noticed, being old and terribly important and even busier than usual... but I'm not... er, the woman I used to be."
El chuckled. "I've been spreading stories of the Ghost Witch of Shadowdale these last few months ... I think ye'll find, on a battlefield, that ye're rather more than ye used to be."
Sylune glared at him, her eyes two white flames dancing in the air. "And just what does that mean?"
"I've had half Twilight Hall modifying their best battle spells since the seasons turned," the old wizard told her. "If it all works, they can cast them simultaneously through ye, so a dozen or more battle magicswhich ye can aimlash out from ye at once."
"And the catch?"
"The power involved will burn ye out from within, leaving thy body only ashes... killing ye."
"El, I don't haveoh. I see. As I'm dead already, I should survive the destruction of whatever body you're going to give me."
El nodded. "It's waiting for ye in Mistledale," he said quietly. "Not the last one 111 give ye ifgods willingI survive this Time of Troubles."
Tears welled up in her phantom eyes, and he added quickly, "Ye'd best get down there speedily. Torm's been dressing the bodyyein all sorts of black leather, red evening lace, and fishnet gauze apparel, most evenings, and seating ye in the porch window of the Six Shields to entertain the locals."
"Oh he has, has he?" Ghostly eyes flashed. "I think 111 just slip into this body of mine at an opportune moment and give him the fright of his life!"
Shar grinned broadly. "May I watch?"
"No, that's 'may we watch?'" Belkram corrected her.
"Of course," Sylune told them grandly. "This Six Shields place is unfamiliar to me, though ..."
"A cheap rooming house east of Lhuin's tannery," El told her in the manner of a pompous guide, "opened recently to house field workers, drovers, and others too cheap to stay at the Hart or the Arms."
Shar and the Witch of Shadowdale sniffed in unison. "It sounds like the sort of place where Torm would stay, tight-pockets that he is,"
"Much as I'd like to watch ye roast Torm on a spit, just to see him wriggle for once, there is some haste," the Old Mage added. "By sundown, the scouts of the Sword of the South may well reach Galath's Roost."
"How can we possibly reach Mistledale in time, then?" Itharr askedunwisely, as it turned out.
Sharantyr gave him a weary look. "He's going to mass teleport us," she said grimly. "It always makes me feel sick for hours afterward." She sighed and put one arm across her bosom and the other over her stomach, bracing herself. "Get on with it, then."
"Wait," Belkram said, brow wrinkling. "We haven't even"
The last, fading thing the Harper saw as he struggled to finish his sentence was Elminster's cheery grin. Around him the world flashed and changedinto blue, swirling misty emptiness. Next came a sense of falling, for just one wrenching moment, and then they were standing on a bare board floor in a loft lit by two barrel-sized lamps that hung down on dusty chains from the roof beam. Frowning men in armor stood staring down at large maps whose corners were held down by daggers and gauntletsor looking up at the newcomers in startled consternation, hands going to hilts.
Belkram and Itharr stood a little behind Sharantyr. Right in front of her was a tall, broad-shouldered and hard-faced man whose steely eyes raked both Harpers for a moment before he took a catlike step forward and crushed her into an embrace.
"Shar, by the grace of all the gods!"
The lady ranger's shoulders shook for a moment as she clung to him, her drawn sword forgotten, and she
knew tears would be bright on her face when she turned to introduce them. Florin Falconhand did not give her the chance.
"I've missed you, little one," he growled, and as Shar reached up to tousle his unruly hair, he added, "but you've found companions on the trail, I see. Who are these two gentlemen you've brought?"
Eyeing the drawn blades crowding in around them, Belkram deemed the moment right. He bent his knee, parted the leathers at his throat to show his silver harp pin, and said, "Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers to fight alongside you, Lord Florin. Elminster sent us."
A good-natured grin split the famous ranger's face, and he reached one long arm around Sharantyr to clasp their forearms. "Be welcome! We have need of swords, good men to wield them... and adventurers brave enough to stand up to Elminster, too!"
"Pardon, Lord," Itharr said smoothly, "but shouldn't that be 'foolish enough*?"
There were chuckles from all around the room, and other men thrust forward their hands in welcome. They were accepted.
Shar tossed her silver blade under the table and put her freed hand on Florin's cheek to guide him down into a kiss. As their lips touched, she was overheard to be murmuring, "Well, here we go again...."
Bodies, Frzesh and OfheRtoise
Misttedale, Fiamerule 15
It was horribly dark and somehow dusty, followed by a whirling moment of wrenching pain that became a red agony in her chest, rising up to choke her. Threads of pain rolled down limbs stiff from disuse to an aching _ forest of fingertips... and then light and sound suddenly burst and swam all around her. The Witch of Shadowdale found herself blinking back tears.
She had a body again!
Fighting an urge to shriek in triumph, Sylune clung to that thought: she had a body again! A body Torm had obviously just finished dressing in a black lace cutaway gown that left her bare there and there and there.... He stood with his back to her, humming a contented ditty as he held up a red silk garter before the lamp and surveyed it critically.
It did look rather splendid, but Sylune bent all her attention to making the still unfamiliar body movepushing against the bed with utmost care to sit up silently, and then leaning forward into a quick barefoot step, slipping her arms around him. Her lips went straight to his ear, and before she kissed its hairy lobe, she murmured
into it, "Torm ... I've come for you! Torm..."
With a gratifying shriek, Torm leapt into the air, red silk flying. Sylune clung to his trembling limbs and made the leap with him, but the Knight twisted in the air to fling her free and grabbed at his belt dagger. The Witch of Shadowdale put one leg behind her, bounced on it, and lifted her other knee smartly between his, ere she bounded backward onto the bed.
Lord Torm of Shadowdale, Knight of Myth Drannor and thief of some skill, rose into the air once more, sobbing. His darkening eyes met hers for just a moment with a look of mingled pain, terror, and disbeliefbefore he crashed face first to the floor.
Some minutes later, the figure sprawled on the furs beside the bed stopped moaning and writhing, and asked hesitantly, "Sylune? Is it you, truly?"
She stood up and walked slowly around the room, kicking experimentally to limber up stiff legs and toes. "It is, Torm... which is why you still live, I suppose."
Weakly, the thief on the floor began to chuckle. "Bits of me do. Others I'm not so sure about. I'm sorry, Lady."
"Apology accepted, lecherous scum."
He laughed openly this time, his whooping breaking off with a catch as the shaking brought him fresh pain. "Ohhh, gods," he said at last, rolling over. "I've not felt this much pain since . .. well, never mind."
"I hope she was worth it," Sylune said teasingly, and then asked curiously, "Why weren't you wearing one of your usual flamboyant codpieces?"
Torm looked hurt. "I wasn't dressed yet! Can you see me going downstairs in this?" He held his arms wide to fully display the patched and stained cotton undersuit that went under his fighting leathers. "Ladies first," he added, gesturing at her.
Sylune put her hands on her hips and gave him a level stare as she gestured, up and down, at herself. "This is your idea of 'dressed,' I take it?"
Torm gave her a sly look from the floor, and rolled up
to a sitting position, wincing once. "Well, you hadn't complained before tonight," he said, feigning innocence.
"Yetas you may just have noticedI'm doing so now," Sylune told him calmly. Then she snapped, "Take this frippery off meat once!"
Torm bounded to his feet with an alacrity that belied the severity of his injury. "My pleasure, Lady Sylune!"
"I'll bet," she said dryly. Try to keep your hands on the buckles and thongs, now, and when you're done, Ill need a neck rub. Hmmmy calves, too. This body is as stiff as old wood!" She struck a pose, pirouetted experimentally, admired herself in the burnished metal looking glass, and rubbed her nose. "You've taken some care with my hair," she said in tones of pleased surprise. "Diligent brushing, at the least. My thanks, Torm."
"Lady," Torm said seriously, reaching out a finger to stroke the silvery fall of her hair, "in all my life I'd never dared touch your hair, or Storm's, but I always wanted to. It's . .. truly beautiful... like spun silver."
SylunS laughed lightly and laid a hand on his cheek. "Why, thank you, Tormthis, from the maid-chaser of Shadowdale?"
"Lady, I meant it," the thief replied, and bowed. " Twas an honor caring for your body." A twinkle crept into his eye. "In fact, if you weren't so many years my senior. .."
Sylune glared at him, and gestured again at herself. "You were hard at work removing all this saucy stuff, remember?"
Torm's j*aze droppedand he discovered the fallen garter. Plucking it up from the floor, he offered it to her mutely. Sylune gave him a withering look, so he shrugged and tossed it over his shoulder. Then he undid her sash, put his hands on her shoulders and spun her around lightly. He stripped her with a speed and expertise that told her he'd done this a time or two before.
"This bit's much easier when you're standing up ander, with us," he commented. "Oh, by the way... the stone that lets you occupy this body is implanted here." He touched the inside of her left arm, just above the elbow. Sylune probed cautiously, and thought she felt the magic stone deep within, alongside the bone.
"Mystra bless you and keep you, Old Mage," she breathed, "wherever she is."
"What about prayers for me?" Torm asked teasingly, fingers busy undoing the black silk choker he'd put around her throat earlier.
"You'll be needing more than I feel capable of giving," she replied with a chuckle. Then the Witch of Shadow-dale reached out, caught hold of his chin, and kissed him firmly, darting her tongue into his mouth.
When she released him, Torm was smiling a little dazedly. "What was that for?" he asked in pleased tones.
She put her arms around him, smelly undersuit and all. "Torm, you rogue," she said feelingly, "do you know how long it's been since I've held someone? Kissed anyone? Tasted anything? Even your mouth is preferable to nothing at all!"
"Hey!" Torm said in aggrieved tones. "What's wrong with the taste of my mouth?"
"Nothing," she said tartly, spinning away from him, "except that it's the only taste you've got." She sat down on a chair. "Now, about that neck rub."
"If my taste is so bad," Torm said, delving hurriedly into a wardrobe, "how is it that you're in my bedchamber, out of a dozen more in this place? Hey?"
"That can be remedied," she said, rising.
Torm caught her wrist and sat her back down. "You're not going out into the hall like that!"
"Why not?" She gave him a deadly look. "After what I've heard about what you've been doing to this body before I got here, it could hardly damage my reputation  or yours  any further! Has Ulistyl heard about this?"
Torm looked pained. "How did you  ? Oh. Elminster."
She nodded in silent satisfaction. The thief looked at her, found his eyes drawn to meet her own, sighed, reminded himself again that this magnificent creature was a woman old enough to be his great granddam many times over, smiled ruefully, and turned her around to face away from him again. "You wanted a rub," he said, "and you shall have it. Then you can go down those stairs and fight off the entire Zhent army doe-naked if you want... but you might catch cold before they get here."
"Not if all the men of Mistledale give me the sort of hot glances you've been throwing my way," she returned. Torm chuckled and tipped some scented oil out of the bottle he'd taken from the wardrobe, rubbed his palms together, and then laid gentle fingers on her shoulders.
Sylune stiffened. "What're yoh. Ohhh." A few pleasant minutes later, she asked almost sleepily, "How did you know I love the scent of cloves? Did Elminster tell you?"
"No," Torm replied, sounding irritated. "How, then?"
"Lady Sylune," Torm said carefully, "I am a thief." He had to hold her up to keep her from falling off the chair as she bent over and shook with sudden, helpless laughter.
Daggerdale, Flamerule 15
Valaster's Stand had thrust lancelike into the eastern Daggerdale sky for an age and more, and bid fair to do so for a long time to come. Long before Valaster had chosen to die there, the stand had been an arrowhead-shaped ridge that rose sharply upward as it ran northwest, to end in a jagged, overhanging point of rock under which many a traveler had camped. Wiser folk kept to the thick stand of shadowtop trees that marched up its back, and so stayed hidden from the eyes of predators.
The trees on the edge of the rocky point were dead or dying. Their bare branches thrust up into the sky like the gnarled fingers of a dead man, a popular roost for birds of prey. Two large and dusty buzzards sat side by side there now. Many another raptor circled, squalling at the buzzards' refusal to leave, and then flew off in search of other perches.
The two dusty birds paid them no heed, for they were deep in conversation.
"We can't get back without a mage," one said in tones that threatened to become a wail.
"If we find one powerful enough," the larger buzzard added, "there remains the problem of compelling him to create a way between the planesand yet keep ourselves safe against his treachery."
"To say nothing of the wrath of the elders of the blood if they hold us responsible for opening a way into Shadowhome any mortal can use... can you imagine armies of men in the halls of the castle?"
"I could tell them it's all your fault, Atari," said the larger buzzard, sounding amused.
"I don't find this a matter for jesting," the other raptor said coldly, "even from you."
"We'd best begin lurking about cities and towers and the like, looking for wizards and trying to find out just who is mighty, and what interests drive them," the larger buzzard said. This may take a long time."
"Aren't they most likely to be found in cities?" Atari responded almost despairingly. "Yinthrim, I don't know how to look and act in a human city! We won't be able to learn anything if we're always running afoul of local laws and customs, and getting attacked!"
"How to begin, then? We'ware!
A large, dark bird was gliding down out of the high blue sky toward them, headed silently but purposefully for their tree. The buzzards watched it nervously, shifting on their perches. "An eagle?" Atari guessed. "Do they eat buzzards?"
"Nothing eats buzzards, if I recall old Othortyn's teachings, except other buzzards," Yinthrim said tightly, "but if he was wrong..."
The eagle circled the tree, regarding them both with dark and knowing eyes. "Is this all you've managed to do?" it asked coldly. "Take bird-shape and sit around on dead trees feeling sorry for yourselves?"
"Ahorga?" Atari gasped.
"Son of Yerga," the eagle responded calmly as it came to rest, wings flapping, between them.
"We were just discussing"
"I know; it's how I knew you. Is this all you've done flee into the wilderlands and then sit and talk?"
"Well, no" Atari protested, but Yinthrim interrupted.
"That's a fair summation of our doings, yes," he said. "I'd rather tarry now and plan wisely than charge into one blundering battle after another and awaken the attention of the Red Wizards, these Zhentarim, and Elminster's friends."
The eagle nodded. "Fair enough. Have you come to any conclusions as to what to doas opposed to what not to do?"
"One question," Atari said hurriedly. "How many more of us came through with the sword and ... survived?"
"None I know of, but others of the blood seem to have found their own, separate ways into Faerun."
"Will any of them join with us," Atari asked eagerly, "in hunting down the three violators of the castle? Or the Great Foe?"
Ahorga turned a cold and glittering eye on the younger Shadowmaster. "Hot for revenge, are you? None of themnor will I."
"What?"
Ahorga turned to see if the silent Yinthrim was as shocked as Atari, but the larger buzzard merely shrugged and said calmly, "Say on."
Ahorga nodded. "Rushing into battle here is a very good way to get slain. They'd no doubt rather see what Faerun has to offer before getting themselves destroyed ... and so should you."
He looked back at Atari. "Go after the three rangers if you mustyou're likely to find them and the Great Foe in and around Shadowdale, southeast of herebut you'd better gather some rings and wands and suchlike that wizards here use to store battle magic... you'll need such power to take even those three. You'd best get some experience in impersonating mortals of Faerun first... unless you like being burned, lashed, and transformed against your will by frightened wizards!"
"You make it sound as if every mage of this world can dispose of us with a wave of his hand," Atari said bitterly.
"If you sneer at them and rush into battle with them heedless of what might befall," Ahorga told him, taking flight with a sudden, powerful wingbeat that almost tumbled them from the tree, "that's exactly what may happen." He circled around them. "Go softly, and make surprise your best weapon."
"Will we see you again?" Yinthrim asked.
"If you stay alive, almost certainly," the senior Shadowmaster said. "Remember, an ambush is your best tactic, and against Elminster, it's your only tactic."
"Well practice ambushes, then," Yinthrim promised grimly. "The Realms around here, I think, are suddenly going to become much more dangerous."
"Now that sounds like a son of Malaug speaking," Ahorga said approvingly. Without a farewell, he flew off southwest.
Atari watched him go, and then said in a small voice, "Are mortal mages really that dangerous?"
"No," Yinthrim assured him. "He was just telling us that overconfidence is."
"Words to live by? Hmmph," Atari said, and turned one wing into a tentacle long enough to make a rude gesture into the southwest. Yinthrim chuckled and flew from the branch.
"Where are you going?" Atari asked in sudden alarm.
"I'm going to practice ambushing somethinganything," his fellow Malaugrym replied. "I'm hungry,"
*   *   *   *
Verdant farms stretched away on both sides of the road, which ran like a sword blade down the length of Mistledale. Along the backs of those prosperous steadings stood the unbroken green wall of the encircling Elven Court woods. On this bright morning Mistledale was a beautiful place to ride, with a good mount moving strongly beneath the saddleeven if the rider rode in the midst of a solid ring of ebon-armored warriors, who took care to keep their armored forms between her and any possible attack.
For the third time, Jhessail Silvertree lost sight of everything but moving black-armored bulks and a forest of lances. She studied the small circle of blue sky visible above herall she could see of the world aroundsighed, and decided she'd had about enough. From the mutter-ings behind her, she could tell that her apprentice, Illistyl, whose tongue was apt to be sharper than that of almost anyone else, was clinging to her temper with grim talons. Jhessail smiled tightly, thanked Torm for his work in outfitting her with riding breechesthough her lack of armor was why the Riders were treating her this wayand swung her legs suddenly up underneath her.
She heard a startled, wordless exclamation from a Rider on her right as she spread her hands for balance and stood up on her saddle. She had time for a good look around before the Riders on either side of her were extending their lances around her like the bars of an upturned portcullis and crying out:
"Lady, get down!"
"Catch hold of my lance!"
"Careful, Lady!"
She folded her arms across her breast and waited for them to fall silentand soon enough, uncertainly, they did. "Thank you for your kind concern, Gentlesirs," she said as the horses slowed to a rather jarring trot, "but both Illistyl and I find it rather hard to do any scouting or become familiar with the land around usland you gallants already know well, but which we've seen only once or twice in passingthrough a solid wall of plate armor."
"That's just it," the leader of the patrol rumbled, his deep voice sounding almost scandalized. "You wear no armor! What if a Zhent arrow came from the trees? How could we shield you better than we have been?"
"Kuthe," Jhessail said soothingly, " 'tis not your diligence or skills I reproach, but my lack of any good way to see around or through all of you. I'm saving my one 'long eyes' spell for any spying we need do in the forest. I know the risks of riding to war; I've done it before, remember."
"But to expose yourself needlessly," Kuthe growled, "is foolish, Lady."
"To a vigilant guard of his homeland, yes," Jhessail said, still standing on her saddle, "but I am an adventuress. One who plays with spells. An explorer of baatezu-haunted Myth Drannor. Wedded to an elf, remember? I've done far more crazed things in my life than riding out without armor, I assure you."
"But the little lass* Kuthe said, gesturing helplessly.
"Call me that again, ironhead," Illistyl advised him sharply, "and you'll be chasing your teeth around the inside of that great helm of yours."
There were guffaws from the Riders, but one of them cut through the chorus of mirth. "Lone rider behind!"
Heads snapped around, and Jhessail turned, smiled, and announced, "It's Lord Merith. The reinforcements Elminster promised us must have arrived."
"Reinforcements?" Kuthe rumbled, looking up at her.
 "We've heard nothing of this... How many, Lady?"
"Four," she told him sweetly, and there were more guffaws. Illistyl was sure she heard an angry snort as Kuthe's helm swung away from them, but a moment later Jhessail snapped, "Aheadat Treesedge! Look!
The eastern end of Mistledale, where the flanking arms of the forest met to form a narrow green tunnel around the road to the Standing Stone, had always been called Treesedge. The spot was marked by a covered well and the crumbling rampart of a tiny keep well known to Riders on patrol who'd sheltered from downpours under its remnants. It was a beautiful spot to spend a night, but a bit lonely to be a grave site.
It seemed likely, however, that men were going to be buried there now. Crossbow quarrels were humming down the road from the east, raking the rear of a hard-riding band of merchants on lathered, stumbling horses fleeing west into Mistledale.
The strength of the merchant band was dwindling steadily. The bolts found easy targets. As Jhessail watched, a fat merchant threw up his hands with a strangled wail and pitched from his saddle, choking on the quarrel that stood out of his throat. On the other side of the road, a horse's head flopped and swungand a breath later both horse and rider crashed and rolled in the dust, collapsing into the long silence of death.
Jhessail dropped into her saddle again a scant moment before the Riders spurred ahead into a grim, silent gallop, knowing they'd not be in time. Far behind them, Merith stood up on his own saddle, saw that strife lay ahead, and reached for his bow.
Lances leveled, the Riders of Mistledale swept east. "Get out of the road!" Kuthe snarled at merchants who could not hear. "Clear the way!"
"Kuthe! Halt your men!" Jhessail shouted. "Nowr
The great helm turned her way, the face within dark with anger. "You have some sort of plan?"
"Yes," Jhessail cried, leaning close to him as their mounts thundered along side by side. "Just stop them!"
Kuthe gave her a long, slow lookand then reached for the horn at his belt.
After the horn rang out around them, the patrol became a confused mass of dust, rearing horses, and cursing men. Lances rang and rattled off armored shoulders, and Jhessail had to duck hastily to avoid being inadvertently unhorsed.
"Well, mage?" Kuthe demanded when he could be heard. His eyes were on the last merchants, dying up ahead... and at something moving on the tree-lined road beyond them. Their slayers.
The leader of the Rider patrol shot her a look. "Well?"
JhessaiFs mouth was a thin, white-lipped line as she told him shortly, "Back away... Give us room side by side."
Kuthe waved one great gauntlet in heavy silence; Illistyl was already guiding her mount forward. Jhessail whispered to her, and they raised their arms together, spread as if in supplication to the sky overheadand waited.
In tense silence as the Riders eyed them, they watched the road to the east. "Well?" Kuthe demanded. "Have you seen enough?"
"Wait until they come out," Jhessail said, her eyes on the road. "It'd be our death to ride down that firing tunnel, the gods know. Let them come out. If I'm right, they'll be the Zhents we're expecting... with orders to ride right on and take Mistledale. They probably killed those merchants just to stop them from warning us."
Kuthe nodded as the killers of the merchants rode into view: a band of mounted crossbowmen, clad in armor as dark as that of the Riders, streaming out of the road mouth and fanning across the fields of Treesedge. Around the two sorceresses, men swore at the sight of that armor.
"Zhent blackhelms, all right," Kuthe said, "and riding hard to encircle us ... sixty of them, or more. What now, Lady?"
"Keep silence for a breath or two," Jhessai) told him softly, "while we do what we have to. Let no man here ride forward until I give the word. When our first spell goes off, your horses may move by themselves; be ready to hold them back!"
"Whose place is it to give orders?" a Rider demanded gruffly.
Jhessail turned on him eyes that were dark and cold, and said, "It will mean death to ride forward. Disobey my suggestion freely, but leave word for your widow first."
More than one dry chuckle answered her from the men around, and Kuthe growled, "Right. We wait. Work your magic. Shields up!"
Crossbow quarrels were already hissing their way, though the range was impossibly long. Ignoring them, Jhessail spread her arms again and began the incantation, Illistyl chanting in unison.
Abruptly the air in front of the Riders was full of shadowy, moving formsimages that suddenly grew dark and solid; the gleaming black armored backs of Riders on horseback, charging away with lances lowered. More than one mount under the real Riders surged forward to join them, and had to be reined in, hard. The ground shook under the thunder of phantom hooves, and dust rose in a cloud as thirty dark horsemen raced away east.
"Gods," the Rider who'd challenged Jhessail whispered, watching the illusory Riders charge away into battle. "They certainly look real."
"Aye, but how can ghost Riders kill any Zhents?" Kuthe demanded as Merith Strongbow came up beside him, an arrow ready, and nodded in silent greeting.
"That's the next spell," the elf told him with quiet confidence. "I've seen this trick before." He thrust both bow and arrow into the startled Rider's hands. "Here hold this."
As Kuthe gaped at him, he raised his own hands and joined in the gestures of the next spell, murmuring something the Rider couldn't quite hear.
Then he plucked bow and arrow back from the officer's hands and stared east, watching as the dust cloud behind the false Riders became a thick, swirling mass of yellow and greenand the two forces crashed together.
With startled speed, the Zhents plunged through the phantom Ridersinto the thick of the yellow-green cloud. And men who rode into that cloud did not come out again.
"I hate doing that to horses," Illistyl said, her voice as thin and cold as a knife.
Merith's eyes, however, were on those who'd ridden wide. "Jhess!" he snapped urgently. As his wife peered past Kuthe, Merith drew his bowstring back to his chin, angled the ready arrow up into the sky, and loosed.
Kuthe had never been so close to a spell being cast before. He stiffened and swallowed as one slim and shapely arm brushed his breastplate in an arcane gesture, and a clear, musical voice spoke two distinct words.
She turned her head and winked at him. Kuthe blinked at herand when he looked again at the sky, the arrow had already split into a dozen shafts, plummeting down on the hard-riding Zhents in a deadly rain.
All but two of the invaders fell in that volley. Kuthe glared at the surviving Zhents and snapped, "Orold take them!" Six of the Riders spurred away without a word, waving their lances as they followed Orold into battle.
"It feels... unfair, killing men like that," Jhessail said quietly.
Kuthe stared at her, and then at the fading yellow cloud where only a few horses still choked and rolled.
"Lass, lass," one of the older Riders replied through his snow-white mustache, "there're still near seven thousand of them, if our scouts be right. When we face alt of'em, sweeping down on our homes, d'you think they'll turn their mounts back if we yell 'unfair' then? Aye?"
Another Rider spoke then. "I can even things just a trifle more."
Jhessail turned her head to see who'd spoken; the voice had sounded surprisingly old. The Rider guiding his mount toward her wore worn armor that had been recently burnished at the joints to quell creeping rust. The armor was of an older, bulkier design than what Kuthe wore, though most of it matched the ebon gloss of the other Riders' harnesses. The Rider doffed his helmand Jhessail stared into the lined face of a very old man.
"Lead us if you will, Baergil," Kuthe said quietly.
"Nay, lad," the old Rider told him. "My commanding days are done. I know daily just how good I wasI order my cabbages about in the garden, and they heed me not a whit."
"Ho, Baergil," Merith said with a smile, and the old man matched it as his cloudy blue eyes met the elf's steady gaze. "I remember you."
"And I you, Sir Elf," Baergil replied. "Though it's been thirty years gone since then."
"Baergil led the Riders that many summers ago," Kuthe told Jhessail, "when I was but a lad. Then he turned to the worship of Tempus, Lord of Battles, and left our ranks."
"They're all dead," Illistyl told them bleakly; she had never stopped watching the Zhents die. "I guess we'll not need your spells, priest of the war god."
Baergil smiled. "Nay, lass; their deaths're what I was waiting for. There's a spell that raises the fallen...."
"To dowhat?" Jhessail asked quietly.
"In the hours before dawn," Baergil said, "if they ride as hard as 111 bid them, sixty skeletal reavers will ride into Essembra, striking at anyone with drawn weapons or who hurls spells at them. Those who offer them peace they'll leave be, but Zhents being Zhents..."
There was a roar of hard laughter. "Do it!" Illistyl told him delightedly, and the warrior priest nodded, watching Orold and his men return.
Then he turned back to them. "That should buy us the time we need," Baergil said with a certain satisfaction, "to make Galath's Roost ready to properly welcome Zhent butchers." The Riders around him laughed again  a chorus of low, quiet sounds that held no humor.
Jhessail shivered despite herself, and caught Illistyl's eye. The two of them shared a comforting look as the priest turned away.
As Merith moved up beside his wife and stretched out a long arm to embrace her, Jhessail felt a pat on her knee  and looked up to see Kuthe wheeling away from her.
"Well done, Knight," he said gruffly. "See you at the Roost!" He urged his mount into a canter, and all around Riders spurred their horses after him, heading for the distant trail into the trees that would take them to the Roost ... to turn the ruined keep into a deathtrap for Zhentilar blackhelms.
Merith and Jhessail's arms were around each other, and their kiss went on until Illistyl looked up at the sky and remarked brightly, "Beautiful weather we're having, isn't it?"
The sky seemed to know this already, though the two Knights beside her didn't seem to notice  or care. Illistyl sighed and rode away. In the distance, she saw dead men and horses rising in a stiff ring around the black-armored priest. She shivered, shook her head, and rode after the Riders.
See the Realms and taste true adventure, they'd said. Well, here we go chasing it again  and flashing swords to that!
The Dead and the Liaing Both Ride
Essembra, Battledale, early hours of Flamerule 16
Gostar yawned and backed into another circular walk, keeping his eyes and attention always on the night to the north. As if his shifting had been a signal, his companions did the same. Those who fell asleep on guard duty or were judged careless often swallowed sword blades on the spot, but the long, cold hours made feet ache and limbs stiffen. It was best to keep moving in the last stretch before dawn, when the mists clouded bright armor and played tricks on eye and ear.
Now, for instance. A low rumbleGostar could feel it in his jaw more than he could hear itwas rising from the ever-shifting mists ahead. A helmed head down the line inclined to listen; the others had heard it, too.
The noise was growing louder, becoming a continuous soft thunder, swirling over and around them with the scudding mists... and seeming familiar. He'd heard this sound before. In his saddle, on the rolling plains near Thentia...
Then he knew what it was, and ice clawed at his heart and throat.
Gostar shook himself, swallowed, and shouted,
"Rorst! Run back to rouse the camp!"
"And why'd I risk a flogging to do that, now?" Rorst asked in his usual, careless, I've-seen-it-all tone.
"Can't you hear it?" Gostar waved one gauntleted hand at the mists before them, where the sound had become a continuous choppy thunder. "Those're horses, manhalf a hundred or more, at full gallop!"
Helmed heads were looking at him all along the line, nowand in the eyes, their whites flashing in the gloom, Gostar saw the grim realization that he was right. Swords gleamed and sang as they were drawn. Rorst took a few lazily shambling steps away from the line just to show that he didn't take orders from a fellow ranker, and feared nothing besides. Then he broke into a trot.
A line of fast-plunging horses leapt out of the north mists, like arrows seeking targets. Atop them rode black-armored warriors, drawn swords in hand.
Gostar yelled in fear and defiance and raised his own sword, whirling it around his head to get the speed he'd need to cleave armor and unhorse a foe. He sprang deftly aside as a charger galloped right at him, then leaned in to strike his blow. It wasn't until he looked up into eyes that were dead and dark that Gostar knew something was wrong, horribly wrong.
The face above his was Estard's... and Estard was up in Mistledale this night, with sixty fellow Zhentilar blades, carving out a claim there for the Sword of the South. Who, then, was this... ?
Bright pain burst through Gostar as Estard's sweeping blade cut through the light mail under Gostar's left arm and into the ribs and chest beyondand the wounded man hung for a long, burning moment on that cruel edge of steel. The world grew dark around him as he flew free, the ground so hard and close and... more hooves struck him as he fell, crushing him into the turf, but Gostar felt them not. Nor anything else, ever again.
A raw scream split the night. Swordlord Amglar came awake, its echo ringing painfully between his ears. He'd been dreaming of gentler, softer, and more welcoming sounds, by far.
"What befalls, by the gods?" he growled at the darkness, feeling for his sword hilt. Horses were thundering through the camp, and the clash and ring of arms rose around him, mingled with shoutsvoices he knew.
They were under attack by a large mounted force!
Amglar cursed, snatched up sword and shield, and stamped feet into his boots, but wasted no time on clothes. His sword squire was snoring like a contented whale at the far end of the tent, with all their armor racked beyond him. It might as well be a realm away.
Boots secure, Amglar spat a heartfelt curse and ran for the back of the tent, where the din was less. The attack was from the north... Hillsfar? Who else could muster enough mounted swords to get through the road guard? Elves never fought from the saddle .. . and even if every farmer in Mistledale could find a horse, scarce more than a handful'd be able to stay on it while swinging a blade!
Then he was out into the night, and war was all around himZhent blackhelm fighting Zhent black-helm! Amglar stared around for a moment at running, half-naked men, horses plunging and trotting stiffly among them, stiff black-armored ridersstiff? The swordlord's eyes narrowed.
He ducked back out of the way of a cursing knot of men being dragged behind pikes buried deep in a rider who did not slow or fall from his saddle. The rider clung to the upswept forecantle with one hand while he swung a futile blade back and forth with the other. The horse struggled on under the weight of them all.
Undead. The attackers must be their own men, raised and sent back from Mistledale. Amglar stared around at Essembra, cursed with loud feeling, and started a perilous run toward the red-lantern house the mages had taken as their own. He hoped he'd make it there alive... and in time.
He was still running hard, dodging blackhelms who should be dead and frantic quarrels from his own terrified men, when Ondeler appeared at the close-curtained balcony of the Bold Banners and stared at the battle below. There was no hint yet of dawn, but the torches in their tripods still blazed, and in the dancing radiance they cast, the Zhentarim wizard could see the street was choked with struggling men.
"Bane's hand!" Ondeler cursed, amazed and fearful. Who could be attacking them here, in the heart of Essembra? Behind him, a lass appeared on the balcony and gasped. He turned and snapped at her, "My robe! Be quick!"
Scared eyes met his for a moment, and she was gone. Ondeler turned back to the street, crouching low behind the balcony rail, and watched the carnage below. Swordlord Amglar, still a distance off, ran toward the red-lantern house, and then Ondeler heard anxious breathing at his shoulder.
"Lord?" the lass whispered.
He reached out without looking, felt the familiar fabric of his robes, grasped it firmly, and said, "Go now and awaken Myarvukthe mage with the curling black beard, who came in with me. Bid him come here; Ondeler commands. If he seems unwilling, tell him the seven talons await. Haste, now!"
"Lord, I will," she hissed, and was gone.
Ondeler smiled wryly as he felt for what he'd need. Why was it that ladies of the evening obeyed faster and more willingly than any of the Zhents under him? Perhaps he should take all the women of this house with him, to be his swordcaptains and envoysif he still had any command at all, after this attack.
He gave up groping for the secret pockets and rose into a cautious crouch to put the robe on. Once it was around him, his fingers knew the places where this and that were stored, and came up with them.
He rose up to his full height, made the pass that touched the two crumbling substances together, and chanted:
"By dung of bat and sulphur's reek And mystic words I now do speak Ashtyn ortkruu angcoug laen Let empty air burst intoflame.*"
As the components dwindled and left his hands empty, one end of the street below obediently erupted in ravening flame, in an explosion that hurled blazing bodies against walls in a gruesome chorus of thuds.
In the flickering aftermath of the fire, Ondeler could see some armored men fighting on despite the flames rising from their bodies. He felt a chill of fear; how?
Undead. Ah, of course. Most were ashes, but a few were horses and men, bare-boned or burning, still moving, fighting. ...
Through them stumbled a man with a drawn sword, who wore only boots and a furious expression. Sword-lord Amglar had finally reached the red-lantern house. He was heading for the door beneath Ondeler and glaring up at the balcony as he came.
"Crimson curtains, wizard! Are you trying to burn all Essembra down, and us with it?"
"It does seem to work, Swordlord," Ondeler replied with a serenity he did not feel. "Nice uniform, by the way..."
Amglar made a certain rude gesture with his sword, but the wizard sneered and raised his hands as if to cast a spell. The Zhentilar snarled and hastened out of view, in under the railing, heading for the door.
"I am here, Ondeler," Myarvuk said from the chamber behind the balcony where the wizard stood.
"Good," said his Zhentarim master. "Did you bring my envoy with you?"
"Envoy?"
"The woman who came for you .. . Belurastra."
"The?" Wisely, Myarvuk swallowed his astonishment and replied levelly, "She stands beside me, master."
"Get her some riding breeches, boots, a daggeryou know," Ondeler said, eyes still on the street below. "She'll be riding with us."
"Lord?" Belurastra asked in a low, cautious voice, as the apprentice mage hurried away
"Aye, envoy?"
"I-I am unused to war. Are you sure you want to do this?"
"I am," Ondeler said flatly, watching a dozen men-at-arms hacking undead limb from limb across the street. An attacker rode toward them, and the wizard swept a stone from another hidden pocket, whispered a word over it, and held it out to make an intricate gesture.
An instant later, a boulder the size of a small cottage appeared above the undead mount and rider and crashed to the cobbles, crushing them both into a tangled, bloody mass. Ondeler nodded in satisfaction. "Another fireball may not be necessary," he announced. .
That's good news, wizard," the sour voice of Sword-lord Amglar grunted from the room behind. "Your last fire spell sent at least seven of our swords to their graves... and a few more bid fair to join them before the day is full."
"Their surviving swordbrothers might just be able to deal with a few zombies," Ondeler said sarcastically. "Weight of numbers and all that."
Amglar ignored this, refusing to rise to the challenge. It was not the first time this arrogant Zhentarim had likened loyal troops of Zhentil Keep to pitiful inferiors not able to match wits or swords with the walking dead. He wondered idly if Ondeler would have dared to act thus if he'd known that Amglar was under orders to report regularly to Draethe, steward of the Inner Circle, on the wizard's performance. Well, no matter; one such report was soon going to be the last, featuring the sorrowful news that Ondeler's own incompetence had brought about his death in battle. Amglar had been considering elegant ways of wording that missive for some time now.
But enough; it was time to play the stone-skulled soldier again. "I've ordered all the troops awakened, fed, and made ready to march," he said heavily. "As soon as the last undead ones are hewn down and burned, we go north. They're probably laughing in Mistledale now, thinking they've the whole day to dig in and await us ... I'd like to take most of that preparation time away from them."
"All the troops?" Ondeler turned, raising an eyebrow. "Even"he gestured expressively at the boudoir around them, taking in the entire red-lantern house in his meaning"the rest of the magelings?"
Amglar set his jaw. "The whole host," he said flatly, and held up his sword hilt, the black hand of Bane gleaming in obsidian on the pommel, in silent reminder that he held overall command of the Sword of the South, supreme even in dealings with Ondeler.
The wizard shrugged. "I am ready, as always." As Myarvuk returned with a bundle of clothing, his master said coldly, "Rouse the 'prentices in as much haste as is seemly. Our swordlord is impatient to find other battlefields than this town."
Myarvuk nodded in silence and withdrew, leaving Lady Belurastra curiously eyeing the belt, boots, breeches, and tunic.
"Put them on," Ondeler ordered her as Belurastra stood stroking one of the smooth-carved balls that surmounted her wooden bedposts. She wore a slightly bewildered expression, and made no move to take up the small sheathed dagger that lay atop the heap.
"If you ride nude," Ondeler told her coldly, "you'll be raw before the sun is bright, and of no use to me."
Belurastra raised large, dark eyes to meet his and asked, "Lord, you are determined to do this?"
"Of courseand if I must tell you again, young Lan-dras of my 'prentices will have the use of your backside to practice his firewhip spell tonight."
-The lady escort sighedit was almost a shiverand said, "Very well," in a small voice as she undid the lace and let her shift fall to the floor. Ondeler watched it form a puddle of cloth around her feet and turned his head away in satisfaction to glare at the swordlord once more. Amglar had raised his own blade as if to stare at its edge critically, but the wizard saw his gaze dart to the woman, and smiled. Brains in their codpieces, all of these swordswingers. Twas a pity that they were needed at all, to hold what the wizards of the keep won....
The swordlord was a veteran soldier. After that first glance to see what she was doing, he kept his gaze resolutely away from Belurastra until it was too late.
Smoothly, the most beautiful woman in Battledale, senior escort of the Bold Banners house, twisted and pulled on the wooden bedpost ball. It came away, and she reached into the hollow interior beneath it and snatched forth a slim poniard. Tossing the ball on the rumpled bed, she used her freed hand to strip away a wax-sealed sheath from the weapon as she raised it.
In the lamplight, a dark green liquid gleamed on the needle-slim steel. Somethingperhaps a momentary flash of reflectionalerted the wizard, and he whirled about to face Belurastra.
"I regret," she said firmly as she plunged the poisoned blade into his right eye, "that I cannot accept the position of envoy to any Zhentarim wizard!"
As she jerked the blade free, the swordlord leapt at her. Ignoring Ondeler's crumpling body, he caught her wrist in steely fingers before she could turn the blade on herself.
The deadly poniard hung bloodily just above her bare breast for a perilous moment as they strained against each otherand then the Zhentilar twisted and yanked. Belurastra sobbed in helpless pain, and the blade spun to the floor. It struck the floorboards and stood quivering there.
"Poisoned, Lady?" Amglar asked in low tones. "Bravely donebut to throw your life after his would be a waste ... a foolish waste." He released her wrist, and the nude woman took a smooth step back.
"Youll not slay me?" she asked, rubbing her wrist.
The Zhentilar officer shook his head. "Nay, Lady, if you agree not to bury that little fang in methough you'll forgive me if I neglect to mention your name or heroic deed in my reports. Best hide that blade after we're gone, somewhere that doesn't tie it to you. And neither of us speaks of this, or remembers it, for the rest of our days."
The lady escort's eyes widened in sudden hope.
Amglar regarded her gravely. "Well? Have we agreement?"
"We do," Belurastra said, eyes bright with unshed, grateful tears.
He smiled. The heels of his boots clicked together. "As to your query: slay you? Nay; I salute you. You've done something none of us dared to ... and freed us of his idiocies just when we could no longer afford them."
A smile flickered across her face. Amglar realized it was because of his elaborate dignitythe boots he'd clicked together were all he wore. He grinned back at her, and said, "If you're so adverse to wearing breeches an' all, I'll see if they'll fit me."
Myarvuk came bustling in a few breaths later and looked sharply down at the body sprawled facedown on the floor, blood pooled about its head.
Amglar, resplendent in too short breeches, said briefly, "Spell went wrong. You're spellmaster of this sword now."
Myarvuk brightened. Then his eyes narrowed and he took a quick pace back, out of the swordlord's reach. "How can I be sure your next report to the steward won't contain a note of how I treacherously slew my master? I think I must know where we both stand... or if I must ensure that I'm very soon the only one still standing." He raised one hand threateningly, wriggling his fingers in a pantomime of spellcasting.
Amglar shrugged. "Save your spells for the foe, boy. Even if I did report that you killed Ondeler, twould not paint you ill in their eyes. You know that. Rest assured my reports won't say you had any part of it, unless you want me to write thus. Now stop prancing about trying to impress me, an' see what you can salvage of this carrion's"he nudged the dead wizard with his foot "magic, for your own use."
Myarvuk bent to his task eagerly, but stiffened a few breaths later when Amglar growled, "Just one other matter, Spellmaster. You don't need an envoy, an' Bat-tledale doesn't need its best lady escort slain. If we are to have a deal, she stays here, unhurtyour witness, if you ever need one, that you weren't anywhere near when Ondeler so unfortunately left us."
Myarvuk nodded and shrugged. "No argument here, Lord." He bent gingerly to the body. "I don't suppose you?"
"Nay, boy. Loot your own bodies... an' don't be all day about it. The Sword of the South rides out of Essembra as soon as it's light enough to see full quarrel range ahead. There'll be no scouting and creeping about, either. We ride looking for battle. Someone in Mistledale seems to want death, and I mean to bring it to him!"
Axshabenford, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
"Clever battle strategies?" Florin asked, wrinkling his brow. "What clever battle strategies, Torm, do you think a force of seventytwenty of whom are untrained farmerscan essay on the field? Against seven thousand?"
The thief shrugged. "The mighty battle mastery of gallant Florin Falconhand is a legend from the Dragon Reach to the Storm Horns, and shiny-eyed maidens await, breathless, for whatever Florin may have up his"
"Don't push it, Torm," Florin said dryly, and snapped his visor down. His next words boomed hollowly from inside his fearsome great helm. "Armed with my reputation, I'm sure we can take the field with sixty-nine rather than seventy."
As the Knights around them chuckled, the ranger stood tall in his stirrups and waved his blade. "Ride out!"
The cry was echoed by the captain of the Riders, and all the horses surged forward eagerly. They were so few that the road took them easily.
More than one watching villager shook his head in disbelief at the calm manner of Mistledale's defenders. One of the ridersthe woman with silver hair, who'd sat asleep and nearly naked in the window of the Six Shields several nights runningeven laughed merrily at something the thief said to her. The three rangers riding easily behind her exchanged glances and smiles, and spurred their horses to pass her by, giving the watching folk of Ashabenford cheerful waves.
The villagers were not heartened.
One spat into the dust of the road and rumbled, "A handful against thousands! We'd best be packing the night through and try for Cormyr, I guess...."
"There's no safe place to ride to," the woman standing beside him said quietly. "I'll be staying on. They'll cut me down in my own fields, to be sure, but at least I'll die at home, on my own land, an' 111 not have run from anyone."
"Don't be daft! You want to die screaming, with half a dozen Zhent blackhelms laughing over you?"
"Nay, but the gods don't seem to care what I wantan' I don't even know the road to Cormyr. This is as good a place to die as any."
"A thousand warriors, and a thousand more, and many more besides, that merchant said," another villager said softly. "The Riders'11 all be slain, sure. Yet hear them laugh!"
"Fools," the first villager grunted. "I'm off to pack. Who's with me?"
"I'll ride to Cormyr with you," said another. "Even if the gods themselves took the field with our Riders an' these Knights of Myth Drannor, there's no hope they'll win against so many."
There were many silent nods at these words, and the villagers sighed and turned away from the road. In the distance, the riders were little more than tiny moving dots now.
The war band left Ashabenford behind in a few breaths, riding easily east down the dale. The morning was chilly but clear, and as Florin looked around at his battle companions and the tranquil, sun-splashed farms on either side, he was happy. Much blood lay aheadperhaps the ending of all their bright days and yet he was doing what needed to be done, and folk needed him to do it. What more can anyone ask than to be needed and wanted and free to answer the call?
The captain was guiding her mount closer to his; Florin sidestepped his charger to meet her. "Aye, Lady?"
Captain Nelyssa's gray-green eyes met his, and her thin lips relaxed into a rueful smile. "I fret still, Florin. I know what we must do, and yet, to ride away and leave Ashabenford with not a sword to defend it ... What if a dozen of themnay, three of them, with ready bladessneak past us through the woods? Who will defend the old men and maids then?"
"Harpers, Lady of Chauntea," Florin told her gravely. "Almost twenty of them, come to us from Twilight Hall in Berdusk with all the magic Lady Cylyria can spare. They will fight to hold Ashabenford even if we falland they carry the means to farspeak Twilight Hall and call on swift spell aid."
"Aye." The lady paladin looked troubled. "And spells themselves have become chancy things of late."
"Not all spells," Sylune put in as she rode on Florin's other side, "else I'd not be here now."
"And you are very much here," Torm purred from the saddle beside her.
"Stow it, clever tongue," growled the fat priest Rathan, who rode on the thief's other side, saddle creaking under his weight. "Ye're worse than a boar in heat!"
Torm favored his best friend with a complicated gesture that had nothing to do with casting spells.
"Tymora forgive ye," the priest said heavily, crossing his arms disapprovingly across his ample girth, "but I do not. Seven nights of abstinence shall be thy penance, I vow!"
"You'll have to chain me somewhere to manage thatand, of course, catch me first," Torm told him mockingly, ducking his horse smoothly around behind Sylune's mount.
Rathan sighed and waved at him in mock dismissal.
The captain of the Riders watched with interest. "Can yon thief run at any speed?" she asked Florin.
"Watch him during the battle," Florin told her dryly. There're few folkeven winged thingsthat can keep up with his retreat."
In reply to this, Torm treated the ranger to an even more intricate gesture. Nelyssa's eyebrows rose. "Droll fellow... did he succeed at thieving by outrunning guards?"
"No," Florin told her, not quite smiling. "Just by staying alive this long. And he did that by outrunning husbands."
Nelyssa rolled her eyes. "I can see we're going to have to watch ourselves," she said sarcastically.
Torm turned in his saddle, winked at her, and then leered at the Shield of Chauntea until she curtly ordered to him to scout ahead.
Laughing, Torm waved and galloped away.
"I'd best go after him to keep him out of trouble," Sharantyr said to Belkram and Itharr. "Come with me?"
"Of course, Shar," they said together, and the three horses leapt ahead as one.
Sylune watched the three rangers pull away and sighed. Tve grown used to them," she told Florin. "See you at the battle." She urged her mount into a canter.
"We're only going to Swords Creek!" Florin said in amused protest. Torm's probably reached it by now!"
"All the more reason for my being there in haste," Sylune told him severely. "The less time I give him on his own, the less I'll have to patch or set right!" And she was gone, galloping hard through the black-armored ranks of the Riders. Some of them amusedly watched her go; others cast appreciative glances at the silver hair that streamed out behind her as she crouched low over her horse's neck.
"Are your Knights always this pranksome?" Captain Nelyssa Shendean asked Florin quietly, visions of chaos on the battlefield rising before her eyes... chaos that could kill them all.
Florin gave the Shield of Chauntea a smile that had cold steel in it. "Usually far worse than this," he told her. "They're taking it gently so as not to upset you, I'd say."
Nelyssa sighedand then her eyes widened in horror as she realized he wasn't jesting. Her hand went to the electrum earth pendant around her neck and brought it to her lips. "Mother Chauntea, preserve and shield us," she murmured feelingly.
An instant later, the ground rumbled under the hooves of the hurrying horses, rocking them all. As startled men cursed and hauled at their reins around her, Nelyssa looked around at Mistledale with a sudden, dazzling smile. Then she stood up in her stirrups, whooped, drew her sword, swung it in a wild, flashing salute to the sun overhead, and galloped off toward Swords Creek in tearing haste, scattering astonished Riders in all directions.
Florin met Rathan's gaze. He took in the priest's eloquently raised eyebrows, and shrugged. "We seem to have that effect on folks," he observed. "Tymora should be happy."
"Oh, she is," Rathan told him. "Wherever we go, the entire Realms around seems to be plunged into taking wild chances."
"I've noticed that," Florin said in dry tones. "It's not a state of affairs to everyone's taste."
The stout priest of Tymora shrugged in his turn. "Their loss," he said piously, "and Faerun's gain. May Tymora smile upon ye in the battle, Florin."
"And upon thee, stout heart," Florin told him. Rathan looked sharply at the ranger's innocent smile, and found it not quite innocent enough. He snorted and spurred away, leaving Florin alone with the Riders of Mistledale.
The ranger caught a few questioning looks from the black-armored armsmen around him, and smiled. "Easy, lads. There's no need to rush into our graves. The gods wait for us all."
"There're going to be gods at this battle?" one of the Riders asked fearfully.
"Now, lad, let's not get our hopes up," an older Rider said with a grin. "You've got to save some excitement for your next battle!"
The younger Rider swallowed. "If I live to see another one," he whispered, "I'll begin to worry about such things, Ostyn."
"That's the spirit!" the older Rider told him. "Cast your worries aside, and ride on into battle!"
The young Rider looked at him with a very white face and said nothing.
"Keep track of kills, shall we, lad?" Ostyn proposed.
"See which of us can slay the most Zhents?"
The younger Rider stared at him for a momentand then fainted dead away, his eyes rolling up as he slid limply from his saddle.
Florin made a grab for the falling Rider's shoulder, caught him, and snapped, "Get the reins, Ostyn!"
The older Rider did so, deftly, and they guided the mount to an ungainly halt.
The rearguard Riders caught them up. "One down already?" a fat, cheerful woman asked, looking at the limp form across Florin's lap. "We'll have to ask the Zhents to hold a thousand or so swords in reserve."
"You're volunteering to ask them?" Florin chuckled as they righted the young Rider in his saddle and shook him gently back to his senses.
"Never volunteer," Ostyn warned her.
"Actually," she said, indicating the reviving Rider with her sword, "I was going to nominate him."
The young Rider's eyes snapped open. He stared at her for a moment, face as white as a priest's vestment and then, still staring, slid out of his saddle again.
They let him fall to the ground this time, stared at each other, and sighed.
4 Softly Come the
"Hold up, there!"
One moment the road ahead was empty, but the next, a stern-looking, ragged crone with the largest, wartiest nose Torm had ever seen was standing calmly in front of his cantering horse, hand raised, bidding him halt.
Startled, the thief hauled hard on the reins. The war horse under him skidded in the dust as it reared, bugling, and came to a halt, lashing out with steel-shod hooves.
The woman regarded it calmly. "An excitable animaland you must be the illustrious Torm that the ladies of Twilight Hall have told me so much about." She turned away, hands on hips, and then turned back to him and asked curiously, "Did you really get a certain part of your anatomy caught in a closet door in Zhentil Keep, or was that just a fireside tale?"
Torm sputtered. He'd just noticed that the woman, in her kerchief and ragged dress, was standing in midair, her muddy, ill-fitting boots a good three feet off the ground. A merry gale of laughter came from Sharantyr, Belkram, and Sylune as they reined their mounts in around him. Itharr merely shook his head in smiling silence.
"Well met, Margrueth," Sylune said, eyes dancing in welcome. The old woman looked her up and down.
"Got yerself a new body, have you? Hmmph. No one offers me a new body to replace this old, aching barrel! I could get used to yours, really I could. Silver hair and all."
"You wouldn't want to go through what I have," Sylune told her softly. "Really, you wouldn't."
"Gods, girlI know that!" Margrueth told her. "I'm old and ugly, not witless! Just envious, that's all."
"If you're a sorceress," Torm asked her curiously, "why don't you choose any looks you want?"
Margrueth glared at him sourly. "That would work for snaring a man for a night of pleasureif, like some folk here, stolen nights of pleasure were what I wanted!"
She let the rebuke hang in the air between them, but Torm merely shrugged, so the old Harper went on. "Sooner or later, thoughwith my luck, soonerthe one I was with'd see the real me. I'd not hide it, mind; the real me is the one I'm proud of. Some of us value honesty over deceit."
"Some of us must be fools," Torm returned sharply, causing Rathan to chuckle as he slowed his horse to join the group of riders.
"Fool I may be," Margrueth told him, "but I could be in worse straits than this!" She gestured at her nose, and swept her hand down at her fat, shapeless body.
"How?" Torm asked, falling into the trap.
"I could have your looks," she told him sweetly, and turned away. Then she turned back again. "It did get caught in that door, didn't it?"
There was a general hoot of laughter, and Torm snarled and urged his mount forwardonly to find that the stout old woman flashed through the air to block his way once more.
"I stopped you for a reason, Lord Torm," she told him severely. "Beyond this point our traps start, and the road ceases to be safeeven for thieves with clever tongues and more luck than Tymora gives anyone! Yonder is Swords Creek."
 
Torm looked at the little rivulet meandering its muddy way across the fields, and asked curiously, "Why Swords Creek for our stand? Is it just a place easily found among all these fields?"
"Mistledale tradition," the captain of the Riders said from behind him. She brought her horse to a halt in a wild thudding of hooves. "On these hanks many battles were fought of old."
"And we Harpers've been here since yestereve, preparing it for one more," Margrueth added. "Water spells to make the ground sodden and turn wet spots into bogs to break Zhent cavalry charges, wild magic areas there and thereno, Torm, you can't see them for the foe to halt in, and suchlike."
* 'We Harpers'?" Torm asked. "Aside from you, I can see only two men."
"Ah, that's because they're not done yet," the old woman told him. The others're in hiding already."
"Hiding? Where?" Torm asked, looking around at apparently empty fields. "Are they all mages using invisibility?"
"No. Not one," she replied with a smile.
Torm shook his head. "There's not a man alive who could hide under my nose between here and that creek."
As the words left his lips, the thief felt a solid tap on his left bootand his war horse reared again. Cursing, Torm wrestled to keep it from leaping forward; he was struggling to head the snorting beast around, away from the creek, when Captain Nelyssa's strong arm caught hold of the bridle. The paladin pulled and whistled, and Term's mount quieted immediatelyallowing the thief to cleverly fall off.
As he bounced on his belly in the dust, Torm found himself staring eyeball to eyeball with the grinning cause of his upset: a dust-covered man buried neck-deep in the earth, who held a sword, hilt uppermost, in one hand. It must have been what had tapped his boot. In his other gauntleted hand, the man held a shield that had been so thickly covered with turf and grass that it had served to entirely conceal the hole he was crouching in.
"Ye gods!" Torm gasped.
"No, even being one god'd be a promotion, I think," the Harper replied cheerfully. "Fine morning to be out on the grass, 'taint it, Lord?"
The riders all around them roared with laughter at Term's expressionuntil the thief buried his nose in the grass and laughed along with them. He nodded to the Harper, rolled to a sitting position, and squinted up at Margrueth. "Right, then, I'll grant you the victory. So tell me how many more of these little holes have you scattered around Mistledale?"
Margrueth shook her head soberly. "That, I'll tell no one. Spying spells that listen to speech from afar aren't easily blocked out in the open."
Her words made them all look aroundbut aside from the two Harpers in the distance and Florin arriving with the Rider rearguard (one of them looking decidedly green), they could see no man or beast.
"But there's no one!" Torm said, waving a hand.
Margrueth shrugged. "There could be a small army of those mages using invisibility, young man. Think before you speak, and you'll not feel so often chastened."
Torm gave her a dark look, and then shook his head and grinned. "I begin to wish I'd had you as my mother."
"So do I, lad," Margrueth replied, "So do I. Your backside would've seen a lot more heat, and valuables belonging to others and good-looking ladies a lot less, in the years since."
"Hmmm," Torm replied with rueful eloquence, and there was more laughter.
"Oh, bloody bats! It's gone wrong againand they're all laughing!
 "Not at ye," the older man said, watching the young man fling down the tangled trip wire in fury, his fingers trembling in agitated excitement. "Easy, lad," the gray-haired Harper ranger added. "Time for all that falling and dancing about an' all laterwhen ye've a sword in yer hand an' several hundred Zhents taking their turn at ye."
"How can you be so calm about it?" his younger companion protested. "We're going to die!"
Level brown eyes stared into his. "Aye, so? We all have to, lad, but there's nothing as says we have to behave like craven cattle first." The old man deftly disentangled the thread and held it out. "An' another thing," he continued, "I've been in about forty o' these little affrays before, an' them as came to kill me haven't quite managed the job yet. It might well take 'em as many tries afore they get ye, too! I've seen it all before, lad... take heart, and be easy, I say."
The young man stared into those level brown eyes, took a deep breath, and then bent and tied the trip wire-quickly and surely. Then he stepped back with a flourish, smiled tightly at the gray-haired Harper, and said, "Done. I hope you remember where our hide is."
"Here, under my boot," the older man said with a smile. "Another trick you'd do well to remember."
"Bloody bats to you, too," the younger Harper said almost affectionately, scrambling down into the pit they'd dug. The old man followed, waving to Margrueth as he reached for the turf-covered shield that would hide them from the world.
But Margrueth wasn't looking at him. She was looking up, frowning at a raven circling in the bright morning sky high above. She said something to Sylune, who lifted one shapely arm to hurl magic up into the skya spell that was never cast.
The raven came out of its lazy circle like an arrow, streaking south and east. But from the blue emptiness high above came another bird, a steel-gray falcon with talons outstretched. It struck like a hammer, and then flapped up and away in triumph amid a cloud of black feathers. For just a moment, the watchers below caught a glimpse of silver hair and tattered black robes, and then the slayer was a falcon once more.
Even as Torm gasped, "The Simbul!" the falcon's kill fell to earth, twisting and growing as it plummeted.
It was the broken body of a black-robed human wizard that crashed into one muddy bank of Swords Creek. The mage flopped bonelessly once, and then lay sprawled and still. One Zhentarim would never spy on Mistledale again.
The old Harper looked back up at the sky. "Well, I lied to ye," he said to the stunned young Harper beside him. "I hadn't seen it all before. I've seen gales and fog and lances of lightning leaping across the skybut I've never seen it rain wizards before!"
Ordulin, Sembia, Flamerule 16
The morning sun sent bright rays through the casement of tinted glass, casting a many-hued image of light upon the floor furs. That meant it was past time for clients of the Winking Will-o'-the-Wisp Pleasure Palace to be gone so linen could be washed, ladies could bathe and sleep, and coins could be safely exchanged at the nearest bank for soft metal trade tokens stamped with the sunburst symbol of the house.
The occupants of the Red Sash Room on the third floor, however, could not have cared less about the hourfor very different reasons. One of those occupants was Baedelkar the Thaumaturge, rising hope of the Zhentarim, who held the Lady of the Red Sash in his arms as if he never intended to let her go.
Her milk-white skin was soft and smooth against him, and her kisses warm and sweet, with the faintest hint of exotic spices... nutmeg? Dunbark? Cinnamon? Ah, but it mattered not.
At that ardent moment, a fist fell upon the other side of the bolted door. It was an imperious fist, but the door was thick and carpeted to steal away sound, and the couple within, seated together on the edge of the large circular bed, did not want to hear it. Their lips met again, and clung.
The fist, however, was persistent. Another blow fell upon the door, and then another, and so on, until they were joined by a softly menacing, magically sent voice: "I know you're within, Baedelkar. The Inner Circle has need of us both, immediately. We've been ordered to join the Sword, somewhere north of Essembra, right now."
After a momentary, answering silence (during which the Lady of the Red Sash murmured and moved in Baedelkar's arms) the voice went on: "Neither High Lord Manshoon nor I am used to waiting... for an apprentice. Presently one or both of us shall grow weary of it, Baedelkarand then it will be too late for you to continue as a Zhentarim ... or anything else."
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge cursed in a soft whisper with feeling, and made as if to pull free... but the large, sapphire eyes staring into his pleaded with him, and sweet lips begged, "Just one more kiss, proud lord ... a brief parting, until we meet again." Those lips lifted longingly toward his.
Baedelkar hesitated for only a moment before he bent his head hungrily forward. It was the last mistake he ever made.
The arms caressing his back seemed stronger and broader, the tongue in his mouth thicker. Starting to choke, the Zhentarim tried to pull away, but found that he was locked in an embrace as unyielding as steel, and tentacles were sliding around him. The eyes so close to his held a horrible flame of triumph as the flesh of her exquisite face bulged and moved, flowing up and over his own visage, covering his nose even as the cold and questing tentacle that had been a velvet-smooth tongue flowed down his throat, choking him. And preventing him from uttering even the simplest spell.
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge struggled in earnest, then, fighting with sudden desperation against the death embracing him. A red roaring rose up in his head, and creeping flesh rolled over his eyes, blotting out his last glimpse of Faeruna sun-splashed room and those malevolent, glittering eyes in a face that had become a nightmare of flowing flesh....
Bane aid me... Bane aid me ... Bane ...
"Right, Baedelkar," the cultured voice beyond the door snarled, suddenly losing its drawling grace. "You've defied me long enough! I hope you'll still think she was worth it, after I dothisF
The wizard's body began to shake violently, and pulse with light. The tentacled thing hurriedly flung it back onto the bed and flowed away across the room, to where the wizard's robe lay across a discarded body harness: a thing of leather straps that held a slim satchel of potion vials, several bulging pouches of sundries to spin spells, and ... a small, well-worn spellbook with battered metal corners.
The creeping thing flowed up and over this heap of magic and, without slowing, turned and slithered along the wall. In its wake, the wizard's belongings were gone, the side chest bare. Meanwhile, the body on the bed jerked and thrashed in spell thrall, and then leapt up into the air once and crashed down in limp silence.
As tentacles hurriedly tore open the casements and let the chill air of morning into the room, there was a snarl of fury from beyond the doorand then a muttered incantation. It rose to a singing final word, and then came ominous silence.
The monstrous, shapeshifting mass flowed out the window and up the wall outside, disappearing from the room seconds before the gilded door of the Red Sash Room burst apart in a rain of dust and splinters.
Nentor Thuldoum of the Zhentarim stood in the doorway, blinking in incredulous rage.
"You worm! You disobedient ti" Nentor's fury fled as he saw what lay on the bed. His jaw dropped, and he stared down in horror at the riven remains. His spell had scorched Baedelkar with a lashing lightning, but should not have eaten away body and brains from within, leaving behind a shriveled husk... and empty eye sockets.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
Thuds and splinterings resounded across Swords Creek as the defenders of Mistledale drove tree trunks into the ground in an outward curve west of the stream. A steady stream of wagons was creaking east along the road from Ashabenford as Riders watched the land to the east for any sign of the approaching foe.
"Leave openings there and there" Kuthe directed as Riders swarmed past him in pairs, carrying logs. Beyond them, more of the black-armored men were hewing the ends of the sloped stakes into sharp points. "I hope well need room to ride out into the fray in force."
"/ hope the Zhents fall dead of the blistering plague and we don't have a fray at all," a farmer muttered, snapping his reins to begin the run back to town for more supplies. He stood up as the empty wagon rattled away, looking around the busy camp, and shaking his head. Not a hundred swords to defend Mistledale againsthow many? Two, three thousand, or more? The word from Essembra was that they'd outgrown all the beds in the place a tenday ago, with not a third of the force mustered. The Sword of the South, indeed and they'd have a Zhentarim wizard or three with them, too.
He looked back at the camp once more and spat thoughtfully into the rising road dust. An army this small wouldn't delay the Zhent host more than an hour or two on its march to Mistledale. Death might well come for him before dusk todaybut where was there to run? He couldn't pluck up his steading and stow it in a pack to take with him. Stand or fall, it'd be here, in Mistledale, where he'd lived his life. The fanner slowed the wagon to make his trip back down the dale as long as he couldit might be his last look around at the finest place to dwell in all Faerun. He tried not to think about the likelihood that by sundown tomorrow it might also be the finest graveyard in Faerun.
A steel-gray falcon circled high in the cloudless sky overhead, for all the world as if it was taking interest in the encampment taking shape by the creek. The farmer squinted up at it, spat again, and went down the dale toward Ashabenford, where the high councilor would be waving his black scepter and barking orders. Heedless of him, wagoners would load in haste and head east, and fleeing townsfolk would drive overloaded carts west.
The breezes died away to the softest of stirrings, what the folk of the dale called a ghost's kiss. By the banks of the creek, a tall, broad-shouldered man in gleaming plate armor looked around the palisade of wooden fangs and saw that it was now almost a full circle. He nodded in satisfaction and turned to where a farmer stood by his laden wagon.
"Bring the tents," Florin Falconhand said to the man. "We'd best get started."
Kuthe frowned at the tall ranger. "This soon?"
"I doubt they'll attack before dark," the Knight of Myth Drannor replied. "Before they could get here, it'll be sundown; they'd have to charge with the setting sun in their eyes."
Kuthe grunted his agreement and turned away. "No cooking fires until the tents are up!" he bellowed, "and don't drop those barrels of beer or I'll leave you to face the men who have to go thirsty!"
"Noisy, isn't he?" Torm muttered, critically inspecting the wicked-looking point he'd whittled on the end of one stake.
"A paragon of authority," Rathan grunted, taking a swig from his belt flask. "I've no quarrel if he's as much in evidence when we start hacking at each other in the mud and the blood." He took another pull at the flask, which gurgled.
Torm looked up at the sound. "Hey! Give that here," he suggested, extending a hand.
"What's this?" Kuthe growled, striding past. "Drinking?" His eyes flashed.
"He sees the flask and instantly knows what we're doing!" Torm gasped in mock fear. "Can no man stand against this tower of perception?"
"I fear not," Rathan growled. "He makes my boots quake, and me in them. Wits as keen as a sword bladeand tongue sharper, too!" Both Knights threw up their hands as if in awe and cowered, wailing.
"Bah!" the Rider officer snarled, and turned away. "Adventurers!"
"Bah!" Torm called after him, his mimicry perfect. "Stiff-necked local constabulary!"
Kuthe stiffened as more than one of the Riders around them chuckled, but did not turn around. After a moment, he strode on.
"Hind end of a blind boar," Torm muttered conversationally as they moved to the next stake.
"Torm's entertaining himself as usual, I see," Sharantyr observed to Sylune as they worked on their own stakes not far away.
The Witch of Shadowdale grinned. "He doesn't know it yet, but I volunteered him for digging the privies."
Sharantyr sighed. "You use the ladies' first, then. I've no wish to be the one who tries out his latest collection of 'humorous' traps."
"Does he do that to the pit for the men, too?" Itharr asked, looking up from the fire pit he and Belkram were digging. Sharantyr looked over at him and nodded. "Ah, thanks for the warning," the Harper grunted, and knelt to begin lining the pit with stones.
A pair of men in black armor emblazoned with the white horse of Mistledale approached with two large, rope-wrapped canvas bundles. "Your tent," the Riders told Itharr, "and one for the ladies."
"One is all well need," Sharantyr said serenely, moving to the last unsharpened stake. "I'm used to the snores of these two by now."
The Rider raised his eyebrows and looked her up and down. Sharantyr raised her own eyebrows in reply, and said coolly, "I'm an adventurer, remember?"
The man rolled his eyes and turned away, face expressionless behind his bristling mustache. His companion growled "Lucky dogs" quite distinctly as they went on down the line of stakes.
"If you knew," Belkram said to the Riders' backs. "If you only knew."
"I heard that," Sylune said warningly, and both Harpers looked up at her with such looks of bewildered innocence that she giggled.
Sharantyr puzzled out how the ropes were tangled, and got the tent unrolled. She hummed a merry tune as she laid it out, shaking her head to clear her nostrils of the strongand expectedreek of mildew. Such things were always put away damp. She critically surveyed the forest-green tent and its white horse blazon. "Does someone in the dale run a camp for bored Sembian nobles?"
"Aye," Belkram told her as the two Harpers came to join her, expertly plucking the poles out of the heart of the rumpled canvas. "But they're under the misapprehension that they're just housing the short-coin laborers who arrive each harvest to help get the crop off the fields... it's not until they see their hired help at work in the fields that they realize how many bored Sembian nobles they're carrying."
 Sharantyr chuckled at that as Belkram held the tent up with one pole, and Itharr crawled inside to raise it from within. "I could get used to having both of you gallant blades around," she said affectionately, fielding the tangle of tent rope that Sylune tossed to her.
"Just two of us? Is that enough to keep up with you?" Belkram asked with a grin.
"On some mornings," Sharantyr said, thrusting over his head the emptied sack that had held the tent pegs. "On some mornings."
"Mmpnffh," he replied firmly.
"Exactly what I was going to say," Itharr agreed, head emerging from the half-raised tent. "Mmphffh."
Sharantyr and Sylune sighed, smiled, and shook their heads in unison.
"Get him a bag, too," Torm suggested, pointing at Itharr as he walked past. "Me, too, and Rathan. After all, you know what they sayall men're the same with a bag over"
"Enough, Torm!" Sylune said, and snapped her fingers. The thief vanished in midstep, and they heard his surprised "Hoy!" of protest from the far end of the camp as he reappeared, looked around, and started back toward them.
"Poor Torm," Sharantyr said, watching him. "I wonder if hell ever grow into dignity and polite manners? I suppose he must grow up someday."
"For some of us," Sylune observed serenely, "it's a long walk."
Battledale, Flamerule 16
There was a sudden flash of emerald radiance from the empty saddle ahead, and Swordlord Amglar stiffened, hand going to the hilt of his swordjust in case.
Spellmaster Myarvuk rode ahead of the hitherto unladen horse, the mount under him linked to it by a long lead. Now he was twisting around to see what had befallen, clinging to his saddle in an ungainly attempt not to fall off. Amglar watched him in grim amusement. These wizards all rode with the grace and balance of lumpy sacks of feedand if the expression on Myarvuk's face was any guide, about as much comfort.
As both men stared at the green light pulsing and growing stronger in the saddle, Amglar watched the Zhentarim mage's tense face... until, suddenly, he knew the new thing he was seeing there: fear.
A second empty-saddled horse pulled its lead free and galloped off to the right. The swordlord's gaze darted to it, but no radiance or other sign of magic appeared. If the gods smiled, perhaps there'd only be one high Zhentarim joining them.
Of course, given what utter ice-hearted bastards all powerful mages of the Black Network were, one was more than enough.
The emerald light had built into the shape of a seated man now, and the swordlord sighed amid the endless thunder of hooves. The rest of his time with the Sword of the South was not going to be enjoyableand might well encompass the rest of his life, given the ruthless and sensitive nature of senior Zhentarim.
The green radiance flashed and faded, revealing a richly cloaked man who sat his saddle as if he'd always been thereand was already looking grimly about, his face as black as old night.
At least this one could ride. Amglar forced a grim half smile onto his own face as the Zhent wizard turned to look behind him.
"For the glory of Zhentil Keep," the swordlord said in formal welcome. The wizard merely nodded curtly and turned his head away. Oh, joy. Getting this one to take the slightest notice of orders was going to be nigh impossible. Best start wading into the blood now, then. Amglar reined his horse in beside the galloping wizard.
Ao 
"Lord Manshoon sends his greetings, Spellmaster Thuldoum," Amglar said loudly, keeping his voice calm and unhurried. Young Myarvuk had lost his title, of course, the moment his superior here had arrived.
"Give me his message," Thuldoum said in bored tones, extending a gloved hand. "I do hope to find it still sealed."
"No message," Amglar returned calmly as they thundered on up the road toward the Standing Stone. "Manshoon farspoke me, and bade me pass on his feelings." If this warning had no effect, things were going to be a royal muddle from now on.
"I see," the senior Zhentarim replied in tones of clear disbelief. Amglar shrugged, letting the man see his gesture. Of course, most Zhentarim would see such nonchalance as the bravado of a fool, not the confidence of a man secure in his power. He was just going to have to educate this one differently.
"Myarvuk," the new arrival snapped grimly, obviously short on patience, "Baedelkar will not be joining us. Your duties will now include his."
The younger Zhentarim nodded in expressionless silence; Amglar knew he was wondering if this cheerful newcomer had been the cause of Baedelkar's disappearanceand if one Myarvuk would be the next wizard to drop out of sight forever when Nentor Thuldoum grew displeased.
He'd never worked with the man before, but knew that Thuldoum had been deadly in battle while riding out of the Citadel of the Raven against brigands, Thent-ian freehands, and all manner of goblinkin and monsters of Thar. Later the senior Zhentarim had come to Zhentil Keep to train battle mages for the Network; "Dull Doom" he'd been to his apprentices, due to his dry, studious manner and the short, ruthless temper it concealed. Not a man to cross. Nonetheless, Myarvuk, son of Thaelon, was going to do just that. Starting, in a small way, now. 
"What was Baedelkar's fate?" Myarvuk asked, with the most casual 'I'd better know' tone he could muster.
"Dead," Nentor said shortly, "slain in his bed by"  he shrugged to indicate that his next words were a guess  "something he must have tried to summon." His mouth shut like a falling portcullis, making it plain that no more would be forthcoming about his absent apprentice. Then he turned his head to glare at Amglar again.
"Swordlord," he snapped, making it sound as if he'd been asking for it repeatedly and was growing impatient, "I await your report of the doings of the Sword thus far. Come up here where I can see you."
Amglar inclined his head in slow, silent acquiescence, and spurred his mount forward. Yes, it was going to be a long road to Shadowdale....
Glorious Victories ARC ELtisioe Things
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, Flamerule 16
"Snug, my lord?" Shaerl asked, tightening the straps that held the plates around Mourngrym's upper thighs.
"Keep your fingers on the buckles," the lord of Shadowdale told his wife with an affectionate grin, reaching down to tousle her hair. They were alone in their bedchamber in the Tower of Ashaba, hiding Mourngrym's wounds from the wagging tongues of rumor. He didn't want half of Shadowdale fleeing because they'd heard he was dead.
It had been a very near thing. Without Blminster, Storm, or Sylune to hand, with the temples already crammed to the rafters with wounded, and with Lhaeo busy ransacking the heavily trapped cellars of Elmin-ster's Tower in search of healing potions and weapons, there were few people left in the dale who could deal with wounds caused by poisoned blades. A white-faced Shaerl had spent a long evening cutting open her lord, tears and his blood mingling together on her face as she brushed errant locks of hair out of her eyes and bent repeatedly to her grisly task.
Mourngrym winced as she forced a sideplate over the quilted undertunic on his ribs, which bulged where they shouldn't because of the bandages beneath. "Sorry, Mourn," she muttered, feeling his muscles tighten under her hands.
The lord of Shadowdale let out a sigh. "Don't be. Without you I'd be dead right now, and the dale fallen."
Shaerl made a rude noise. "Such dramatics! Do you think I'd flee or put a dagger in my heart if you died, when your killers and those who sent them will come marching into my reach in a few days?"
Mourngrym smiled and put out a handthe one without the gauntletto the side of her face, tilting her jaw up so that he could kiss her.
His wife, the fiery temper of her noble Rowanmantle upbringing lurking not far behind her eyes, kissed him with ardent passion, locking her fingers in his hair to ensure that this wouldn't be a brief brush of lips.
"Try not to get carved up this time," she chided him when she released him at last. "I don't want to spend another night like yestereve."
"As the dancer said to the high priest," Mourngrym murmured. Shaerl sighed at this, her lord's habit of lame Waterdhavian humor, and handed him his helm, sword, and remaining gauntlet.
Nodding in acknowledgment, the lord of Shadowdale said, "Now I really must get to horse." He strode awaybut before he'd taken three paces, she'd slipped around to bar his path, a slim but imperious hand slapped hard against the Amcathra arms emblazoned on his breastplate.
"Sword and gauntlet on and in place before you go out that doorand the helm before you set foot outside the tower. I don't want to be married to a headless man. They're not quite talkative enough."
Mourngrym sighed, smiled, and did as he was bid. It was easiest to comply, as always, and his sharp-tongued mate was rightas always. Who was to say a Zhent agent, or merely someone in need of the coins they'd pay, wasn't lurking a bowshot away from the tower, or in a balcony above the courtyard, awaiting his chance?
These past two rides Zhent raiders had kept Shadow-dale's defenders busy fighting off several attempts to burn the dale's smithy and granaries. There had also been the setting of several fires along the roads into the dale, no doubt to widen them and rob defenders of any cover; the attempt to taint the River Ashaba upstream by dumping carrion into it; and the poison dumped into the well of the Old Skull Innwhich had forced Lhaeo to call on the Simbul and endure her acidic lecture on placing a guard over basic necessities. The problem was that Mourngrym had too few competent guards to do that, let alone hold' Shadowdale against thousands of well-equipped Zhentilar troops led by gods-knew-how-many Zhent priests and mages.
"Wouldn't it be nice," he asked Shaerl as he settled the sword on his hip and she surveyed the result critically, "if some mad god or other would just crush Zhen-til Keep to rubble for us?"
"Ill see to it," she told him briskly, "but I'd take it more kindly if they'd settle for simply crushing the hosts on their way here to slaughter us ... and if I knew where Elminster was just now."
"Boo!" breathed an all-too-familiar voice on the back of her neck.
Shaerl shrieked as she leapt forward into Mourn-grym's arms. The lord of Shadowdale began to laugh helplessly, shaking his ladyand she broke free and spun like a dancer on one small bare foot to confront the Old Mage, her eyes snapping with anger.
"Must you always creep up on folks invisibly and then try to startle them with grand entrances?"
"Everyone needs a hobby, look ye," Elminster said, regarding her with eyes that sparkled in amusement, "and that's one of mine."
"Well, find another! Gods! My heart's stillfeel it! It's"
"No, love," Mourngrym said hastily as the gleam in Elminster's eye grew brighter, "you don't want to make that sort of offer! Not with Elminster!"
Shaerl turned on him. "And you! Laughing at my discomfort, like a boy playing in the street! You ought to be"
"Somewhere quieter," Mourngrym said sarcastically, striding past her, "like the heart of a battle with the entire Zhent army!"
Shaerl made a gesture in his direction. Mourngrym waggled one steel-clad finger at her in mock admonishment, and went out.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed away her exasperation and turned back to Elminster. "Be welcome, Old Mage," she said softly. "I'd appreciate a chance to talk about what lies ahead for us, if you've the time."
" Tis why I came," Elminster rumbled, "now that my work at the Standing Stone is done: three arrow swarms, and a little something extra." He went straight to Mourngrym's most comfortable chair and sat down with a grunt of pleasure, swinging his feet up over one of its massive arms.
Shaerl smiled at that and started toward the sideboard where the decanters of wine awaitedbut she'd taken only a few steps before a full goblet of her favorite vintage came gliding up to hang in the air in front of her. She took it, turned, and saw Elminster raising an identical drink in salute. "To a lady who does not take serious contributions from idiots," he announced.
Shaerl grinned, shook her head slightly, and returned his toast. "To a wizard who takes more delight in misbehaving than does a small childand is all the more welcome here for it."
They both drank. Shaerl discovered the bottom of her glass, shrugged, and continued to the sideboard to take up the decanter. She had a feeling she was going to want a lot more of this before they were done. . 
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 16
"Dusk comes swiftly," Swordlord Amglar told the two wizards, pointing at the red sun glimmering low in the west.
"We press on," Nentor Thuldoum told him coldly. "If we try to camp at the Standing Stone, we'll be in the trees or strung out along three roadsand we can be attacked along each one."
"So much is common knowledge," Amglar agreed calmly. "I merely wish to point out that if we press on to Mistledale, it'll be dark by the time we ride out of the treesideal conditions for our foes to ambush us."
The spellmaster turned on him with menacing slowness. "Are you trying to tell me what to do?"
"Yes," Amglar said evenly, locking eyes with him. "That's exactly what I'm trying to do. Manshoon does expect you to take orders from me; his description of you, as I recall, was 'a fool, but a biddable fool.' Shall I report to him that he was wrong?"
Thuldoum held his eyes for a long, cold moment as their saddles creaked under them. Myarvuk, riding just ahead, hummed a tune, trying to pretend he could hear nothing of this. Thuldoum said softly, "I'm watching you, Swordlord. Watching and waiting for the slightest slip, the smallest excuse ... be careful. Be very, very careful."
Amglar raised his eyebrows, but his face remained expressionless. "I always am," he said, and the spell-master could have sworn that the warrior's eyes held a glint of mocking laughter.
Then they were slowing to round the turn onto the Moonsea Ride under the watchful bulk of the ancient Standing Stone. There was a brief confusion as mounted Zhentilar armsmen looked back expecting orders to halt, heard nothing, and rather tentatively continued, heading west toward Mistledale.
The rings on the spellmaster's hands winked with sudden radiance, and the air all around was filled with humming arrows. Shafts leapt from the trees on their left, hissing into startled men and their mounts alike, easily piercing black Zhentilar armor.
"We're under attack!" someone bellowed.
"Dismount! Into the trees therecharge!" Amglar shouted, pointing with his sword. "In at them!"
His orders made Spellmaster Thuldoum turn to him, and Amglar saw that the wizard was staring down at his rings in astonishment. As they looked at each other, the rings flashed againand another volley of arrows came hissing out of the trees on the other side of the road.
Amglar's eyes narrowed as he ducked low on his horse's neck, but it was too late to stop the rush of furious armsmen into the trees, charging in as he'd ordered. Horses screamed and reared, and men toppled from saddles everywhere in the tangled intersection. The swordlord fought to stay in his saddle.
"Back, mages!" he bellowed, waving with his sword toward the Standing Stone itself. "Back!"
By some favor of the gods, neither Zhentarim had been hit; they spurred their horses after him, ruthlessly riding down armsmen in their haste. "Swordcap-tains, to me!" Amglar roared as he reached the trees to the east, his eyes on the woods to the north. If his hunch was right, there'd be no more arrows from therenor any other attack.
"Is this your doing, mage?" he snarled when a frightened-looking spellmaster rode up to him.
"No!" Thuldoum barked. "If these arrows are spell-borne, it's not a magic I know! I"
His rings flashed once more. He was staring down at them in horror when the trees on the eastern side of the road erupted in clothyard shafts! An arrow took Amglar through the shoulder, and another three thudded into his charger. Yelling in pain and fury, he flung himself free as it bucked and went down, crashing over backward atop an unfortunate armsman.
He hit the road hard and bounced in the dust, winded. Myarvuk slid from his saddle, half a dozen shafts standing out from his body and a glazed, lifeless stare in his eyes. Gods spit on itthe truly biddable mage down already!
As Amglar fought for his breath, arrows flared into flames and then nothingness around the spellmaster, who must have some sort of magical shield against themof course, Amglar thought sourly. But the volley tore into the officers turning in answer to his call. The intersection was full of rolling, maddened horses and sprawled, trampled bodies ... in just a few breaths half an army had been reduced to bloody chaos.
"Halt!" Amglar roared, struggling to his feet, arm and shoulder burning. He ran into the path of the second 'lance,' just as they came thundering up the road to see what had occurred. "Halt!"
He staggered hastily backa thousand cantering horses can't stop immediatelytripped on a body, and with a roar of pain fetched up against a tree.
"Sir?" A swordcaptain asked, beside him. Through red mists of pain, Amglar set his teeth and looked up. Blood was coursing down his arm, bright red on the black armor; he clutched at his arm and snarled, "Get a horn and call the rally and retreat to those I sent into the woods. They'll not find a foe unless they run on all the way to the dale! Then relay the order to halt! On your way, send three or four more captains to me!"
The man nodded and hurried away, wasting no time on salutes or words. Amglar glared after him. Good. At least one Zhentilar knew how to be an officer; he'd have to remember that man's face.
Feeling the spellmaster's eyes on him but paying no attention, Amglar strode to meet the officers who were hurrying toward him. "Clear this place," he ordered.
"Drag everything up the north road, and set torches; we'll strip the bodies later. Slay any horse that can't stand on four good legs. Let no man touch the fallen magethat task is for the spellmaster alone." Without turning his head, he snapped, Thuldoum! Be about it."
The Zhentarim said nothing, but Amglar heard the creaking of leather as the wizard dismounted, and a snort of irritation from the man's horse as someone else took the reins.
"I want you to know," the spellmaster said in a low, fast voice, "that I had no part in this attack. It was not my doingand nothing I carry has any power to hurl arrows anywhere!"
"I know, mage," Amglar said shortly. "It was some sort of arrow spellthree spells, belikeset to go off when something enchanted passed by: your rings. They're probably rolling around laughing in Mistledale right now. See to your dead comrade."
He walked away without looking at the Zhentarim and headed to the front of the lance that had halted on the road. He would tell them to dismount and set a watch in the trees in case there were archers or rangers lurking out there.
Dead men lay heaped underfoot. Someone was groaning weakly under a pile of bodies off to the right. Amglar scowled. A swordlord's lot is not a happy one.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
"Who goes?" The challenge came out of the night. The voice sounded young and eager, and its owner was probably holding a loaded crossbow. Jhessail sighed and spoke quickly before Illistyl or Merith could say anything smart. "Owls are blue tonight," she told the darkness calmly. "Kuthe's patrol, with three Knights of Myth Drannor. I am Jhessail of Shadowdale."
 
"Pass, Lady," the voice said, sounding suddenly respectful, even wistful.
An admirer, then, probably a Harper. Merith laid a hand on his lady's thigh and squeezed. Leaning close, the elf whispered, "Men who lust after you are everywhere in the Realms, it seems. Truly I am fortunate to have arrived in your arms first, and"
"Oh, do belt up, dear," Jhessail said, grinning.
"Aye," Illistyl's sharp tones came out of the close darkness on Jhessail's other side. "And forthwith, before I spew!"
"If ye can stand the company of the two blades she's picked up, who both fancy themselves cleverBelkram and Itharr of the HarpersSharantyr's left room and a warm fire for ye," the gruff tones of Rathan came to them out of the night.
"Kind of her," Jhessail said, "but we're going right back out after we feed and hobble our horses. We're going to be a little surprise in the Zhentarim backside on the morrow!"
"Ye'll probably lift a few eyebrows hereabouts, too, if ye try charging on hobbled horses!" Rathan chuckled.
"We're leaving the horses here, you dolt," Jhessail told him affectionately. "Where's Term?"
"He felt restless, and wanted to go 'exploring,' as he put it," the burly priest replied. "So I gave him a little too much wine and smote him one. He'll wake before dawn, in. just the right mood for a good battle."
"I'm glad it's you who shares a tent with him," Illistyl said feelingly.
"I'll be only too happy to surrender my sleeping furs to thee, gentle maid," Rathan said eagerly, "and I'm sure Term won't object in the slightest!"
"Ah, ha!" Illistyl agreed flatly. "I doubt he'd mind, indeed." She rode on, turning to add, "111 save my furious defenses for the fray tomorrow."
"I rather think we all will, lass," the elderly voice of a dale farmer came gruffly out of the nearby darkness.
"Or we'll be dead before another night comes down on the Realms."
*****
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 16
"Galath's Roost is the only logical place to camp for the nightthat's the problem," Swordlord Amglar said to the silent ring of officers around the map.
"What problem?" Spellmaster Thuldoum said sharply. For some hours now, he'd been trying to overcome his own fright and whispers of incompetence or disloyalty by playing the sharp-tongued aggressor. Everyone in earshot was tired of it.
"I mean, wizard," Amglar explained in wearily patient tones that brought secret smiles to the lips of a few swordcaptains, "that it's the place our foes expect us. Just as they knew we'd pass by this spot."
He waved at the road behind them and the dark and silent bulk of the Standing Stone beyond. Three hundred armsmen and six score war horses lay dead along the north road, heaped cottage-high under the stars... and already the wolves were howling, nearer each time. Amglar tried not to think of the fallen. The dead were beyond his orders; it was the living he had to worry about.
"So?" the Zhentarim said coolly. "They hardly have enough blades to hold a ruin against us, even in the dark. And my spells can make it bright as day, so our archers can keep to the night and strike down well-lit targets as they please."
"I'm thinking there'll be traps there, not defenders," Amglar said heavily. "I don't suppose you can see into the place from here, can you? Or better: let our veteran swordcaptains look at things. They'll know traps better than either of us." To say anything else might make this Spellmaster hurl spells in a fury, and after what had befallen so far, that would be all the Sword of the South needed.
The Zhentarim was shaking his head. "No, it's much too far to send an eye. I'd have to have seen the hold before with my own eyes to scry it with any of the other magics I carry."
"You've nothing that can help us?" One of the three lancecaptains said, not bothering to keep the contempt out of his voice. The spellmaster made a silent show of looking him up and down and committing his face to memory, but all of them knew any hostile move the wizard made in this gathering would result in his death. Not a few of the personal belt daggers around the map would be poisoned, too.
"You're a brave man, sir of the lance," Nentor Thuldoum said in silken tones, "if a foolhardy one. A wizard of the Network always has something that can be turned to use, and it's always more than his foesand others," he added pointedly, staring around at the impassive soldiers' faces, "expect. I have a spell ready that can create a beast to explore the ruins for us ... but only I will be able to see through its eyes."
"And if there's an enemy wizard at the Roost?" Amglar asked quietly. "Will such a one be able to see you through itand send any magic through you, to strike us here?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "In fact, it's unlikely that any wizard who meets my creature will escape alive."
"Cast your spell, then," Amglar ordered, his voice riding over a murmur of disbelief at the wizard's words from the officers. "The sooner we know, the sooner we can act."
"Stand back," the wizard said curtly. "All of you." He drew himself up and glared around at the black-armored menand their sullen faces. "Let no man disturb my casting, on pain of death. Lord Manshoon's standing orders apply here as in the Keep."
By the time the last of those words left his mouth, Nentor Thuldoum stood alone in the center of an open space perhaps twelve paces across, ringed by a warily silent audience. He looked around at them and smiled. Good; the more who saw this, the better.
From the safe pouch at his belt, Thuldoum drew a small sphere of blown glass that held a veined, gelatinous mass trapped in its heart. He held it on his fingertips, and for the benefit of the assembled soldiers murmured an incantation that was far longer and more impressive than it needed to be.
Then he made a dramatic and totally unnecessary gesture, and blew the sphere gently out of his palm. It plunged to the hard-trodden earth in front of him and burst with a tiny singing sigh.
A drunken man's nightmare boiled up from where it had been, growing with frightening speed, rearing up until it was larger than a horse. Men gasped and backed away in gratifying alarm; the spellmaster smiled tightly at them and pointed west and a little south, into the trees. His creation gathered itself up and drifted obediently off across the road, soldiers scrambling to get out of its way.
It was a shapeless bulk of translucent gray-white jelly that swam and flowed constantly. Countless staring eyes and silently snapping mouths slid across its changing outer surface, appearing and disappearing with bewildering speed.
"A mouther!" one of the veteran armsmen gasped. The drifting thing did look like the deadly gibbering mouther of yore... though no gibberer had ever risen man-high off the ground and flown about at a wizard's bidding, so far as Thuldoum knew.
Then it was gone into the trees, and his world became a place of dark trunks and branches and shifting shadows, looming up before him, thick and tangled....
"Bring me a seat," he said, not breaking his vision from his creation, "and something safe to drink. Someone who knows traps and castles should stand by me, toowe'll both have questions to ask each other when my creature reaches the Roost."
*   *   *   *
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
Galath's Roost had been blasted apart four centuries ago by mages who knew their business. Since that day, the small keep atop its stony height had been swallowed by the forest. Massive duskwoods and cedars rent what was left of its walls and yet held them up, their trunks cupping chambers that were open to the sky and walls that ran to nowhere. Their leaves all but hid the riven keep from view... but if one stood a little way off and in just the right spot, the faint flicker of a fire glimmered through the trees.
The room whence the fire came had one wall open to the nightbut the two pilgrims who'd built the fire and now huddled around it had good and prudent reasons for not choosing any of the better-preserved rooms in the Roost. They were discussing that now.
"A good job, they did," the taller one said grudgingly.
"You're certain they left this room safe?" asked the other, clutching his expensive talisman of the god under his chin. The gilded image of Tyr's warhammer and scales shone back the firelight, serene and unchanging.
"All but that door," the first one replied, pointing. "If you go out that, a very large crate of rubble will fall on you."
"Ah," said the other. "I'd best go water the gods' gardens out the way we came in, then." He sipped from a battered tin cup, making no move to get up, and added, "A good thing we found that cellar, or they'd have seen us, sure."
"That was no cellar," his tall, lean companion chuckled, scratching under his much-patched tunic. "That was the castle cesspit."
"What?" the shorter pilgrim said, staring down at his boots and then at his elbows and his cloakbut finding no foulness. "Is my nose as bad as all that, then?"
"After four hundred years," his companion told him kindly, "dung is just dust."
"Huh," the shorter pilgrim agreed, and launched into a dry chuckle that ended in a fit of coughing. "I guess the Realms're covered deep in old dung, then. Urrrgh. Aiiuh." These last two comments accompanied a grunting attempt to risean attempt that ended in a disgusted wave of one dirty hand, and a return to a more or less comfortable lounging position against a pile of moss-cloaked rubble.
In all the activity, neither devotee of Tyr noticed a dark, many-eyed bulk slithering silently out of the night, over the stones in the ruined end of the room. As they decided aloud that a prayer to the Lord of Justice might be prudent before they wandered off into the woods to relieve themselves, the thing of eyes and jaws crept unnoticed toward them.
" 'Tis your turn to begin the devotion," the shorter pilgrim mumbled.
"Do it be in truth, Jarald? Or've you just forgotten the words to the Call of the Just again?"
"I've not! I remember them well!" the shorter pilgrim said heatedly. "Will you plague me with the misdeed of one night down all the years to come?" Behind him, unseen in the flickering confusion where the firelight played on a broken end of stone wall, something that swam with many eyes and hungry mouths reared up, looming darker and larger, drifting tendrils of itself across the ceiling to hang above the two oblivious pilgrims.
"I don't rightly know," his taller companion said, with a slow grin. "How long did you plan to go on living?"
From the darkness above came a sudden swift movement....
War? Comes Co MisCLe6ale
The fire was dying down; he'd have to make this swift. The taller pilgrim cleared his throat, lurched forward from a seated position to his knees, and began. "Hear us, O Great Balance, as we hear thee! From our knees we cry to theeeee/"
His words ended in a surprised cry as he raised his eyes to the firelit ceilingand found himself staring at an oozing, descending blob of jelly that swam with jaws and eyeballs! And all of those eyeballs were staring at him!
The horrid thing lunged at him, seven or more sets of fangs biting the air hungrily as they came. The pilgrim flung himself backward and to his feet, out of reach, and the thwarted reaching thing turned with fearsome speed and struck at the other pilgrim.
The shorter man was already on his feet, watching the monster with a surprisingly calm expression of curiosity on his face. He sidestepped the attacking tendriland found a second questing arm reaching down, almost upon him. He was trapped between them. As they reached in, he shrugged and grimaced.
An instant later, the many-fanged mouths opened wide for their first savage strikebut the pilgrims were gone. Two clouds of dark, whirling globules stood for an instant where the men had been. And then the jaws bit down. On nothing.
The globules crashed to the floor in a red rain that spattered the stones and put the hissing fire out. Amid the sudden smoke of its dying, the floor ran with small puddles that moved together with purposeful speed.
The many-fanged monster peered suspiciously around the room and came slowly free of the ceiling to gather itself into a floating sphere of questing eyes and gnashing teeth. It echoed the dumbfounded astonishment of the distant Zhentarim who'd created it; he'd never seen anything of the like before. Was this a spell? Were the two pilgrims of Tyr doppelgangers who'd learned a new trick? Or ... something else?
The floating monster glared around the ruined chamber, but nothing moved except the thick, dark red fluid on the floor. Two holy symbols lay amid the moving gore, and tin cups and scabbarded swords and knives leaned where the pilgrims had left them, but their clothes were gone. The monster bent its gaze again on the moving liquid.
Slowly, as if with great effort, the red fluid was gathering, joining into two ever-widening pools. The creature watched for a long time; the pools became two rising, glistening red humps. Purposefully the fanged thing flew across the chamber to hang above one pool, and extended a forest of mouths with questing tongues, intending to suck up the pool.
With surprising speed, the pool leapt upward to meet it, roaring in a red column that plunged into all the waiting mouths. The fanged creature darkened, shudderedand flew apart in a wet explosion of staring eyeballs and slime.
Gelatinous fragments of its riven body were flung to the far corners of the rubble-strewn room... but before they could stain the walls or floor, these wet remnants faded silently away into the air, as if they had never been.
The swordcaptains standing around Nentor Thul-doum nearly swallowed their tongues in startled fear when the wizard let out a sudden raw scream, clawed blindly and convulsively at them all, and then flung himself back in his seat, clutching at his head. The wordless wet gargle in his throat rose again into a screaming, a high keening that went on and on ... and men pulled back from the reeling Zhentarim and drew their blades. They shivered.
"What should we do, Lord?" a swordcaptain asked, hurrying to where Swordlord Amglar sat watching, his back against the ancient bulk of the Standing Stone.
The commander looked up expressionlessly at the anxious officer and shrugged. "Either this passes, or it doesn't. If the latter, well put arrows through him from well away until he falls silent, and then burn the body." Amglar reached for the wineskin and goblet that sat on the grass beside him, and his lips curved into a mirthless grin. "Wizards are all like that, inside," he told the swordcaptain softly. "If their control is ever broken, all the screaming and wide-eyed raving bursts out, for us all to see."
The man shivered. "What does that to wizards, Lord?"
Amglar shrugged. "It's but magic sweeping away restraint. Mages are just men and maids like all the rest of us. The problem with our kindly Zhentarim is that they all seem to forget that."
In a ruined chamber deep in the night-cloaked woods, two columns of dark, glistening liquid grew slowly darker and more solid, shifting into manlike shapes. One sharpened into the likeness of the shorter pilgrim while the other was still a glistening humanoid, eyes and mouth just swimming into view on a face of red slime.
"That body?" the unfinished one asked disgustedly.
"Again?"
"You'd prefer this?" The shorter pilgrim flickered and slid, its clothes and bristles melting away into ivory-skinned voluptuousness. A breathtakingly beautiful female human caressed itself provocatively, posing with its hands in a magnificent fall of flame-red hair.
"Where'd you see that?* the unfinished one asked.
The second Malaugrym smiled. "Well, it's a long story. ..."
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, early Flamerule 17
"Is there more moongleam?" Elminster asked hopefully, holding out his goblet.
Chin on hand, Shaerl shook her head. "Not this side of the cellars, and I'm in no state to climb stairs now. Not aftergods, Old Mage, it's been six bottles! Doesn't wine touch you?"
"No," Elminster told her. "I just like the taste."
Shaerl rolled her eyes. "Of course. Silly of me even to think you'd get tipsy, or take headaches from wine, like mere mortals."
"Look ye, lass, it took me the better part of a year to get the spell rightand after all that, Mystra laughed and changed me with a wave of her hand! I could have saved myself hoursnay, daysof painstaking research!"
"Aye," Shaerl agreed dryly. "I can see how long and hard it would have been, drinking every night away to see how long it took you to start reeling, and if 'twas different than the night before."
"That's not how I did it, lass!" Elminster growled at her.
Shaerl spread her hands in apology and sighed. "I'd have more sympathy, El, if I didn't look in the mirror every morn and see myself getting older, fast. Not all that long ago I was ordering my gowns slit thigh-high to catch the eyes of young blades at feasts, and having gowns made to match so my parents wouldn't see until the coach was around the first bend, and I could strip them off! Now I couldn't even get into any of those gowns ... if I still dared to dress like that!"
"Why don't ye dare dress like that?" the Old Mage asked, trying to peer around the edge of the table to see her ankles. "A few years and a child don't ruin one's legs!"
"But they do add to one's belly. Never mind about me ... you know what I'm talking about, Old Mage. You've had centuriesand may well have centuries more. Ill be lucky to see sixty summers."
* Tis not the shining thing ye think it, this longevity," Elminster told her gravely. "I bury friends every day, it seems... and one grows so tired of it all. If ye didn't need me so sorely in the days ahead, twould be so easy to just bid it all good-bye and lie down in a tomb somewhere to dream the ages away... but ye always need me/
"I do?" Shaerl asked challengingly, but hastily added, "No offense, Old Mage."
Elminster waved a dismissive hand. "Not ye personallythou art one of the bright spots, lass. Cormyrean noble ladies who can think for themselves are rarer than they should be! I meant the Realms in general, and Shadowdale in particular. There's something here that the gods need very badly just nowand I must guard it from them."
"Ah, with us caught in the middle, as usual," Shaerl said sarcastically. "Wonderful."
"Ye wanted adventure when ye left the castle of thy father," Elminster reminded her. "So ye took the oath to Azoun and joined Vangerdahast's service, were sent to Shadowdale and promptly married the man ye were sent to spy on ... so here ye are. Too late by far to criticize the bed ye made for thyself, dear."
"I know," Shaerl replied in exasperation. She got up, leaning on the table for support, and then strode restlessly about the room. "It's just"
She threw up her hands in surrender, whirled around, and ran to the old wizard, flinging her arms around him.
"I'm just so scared, El," she said, tears standing in her eyes as she stared into his. Her lower lip trembled. "Every time Mourn goes out that door, I think it's the last time I'll see him alive. Zhentil Keep attacks us every gods-be-damned spring... and now the entire world seems torn apart, with gods everywhere and ores and brigands, and magic going wild! Mourn needs me to be strong, I know, when what I want to do is run away from it all, just the two of us, and"
"The two of us? Ye and this old wizard? Miss, I'll remind ye that ye're married!" Elminster said primly.
"I meant Mourngrym, you dolt," Shaerl said scornfully, voice wavering on the edge of tears.
"I know ye did, little one," Elminster said. He folded her gently into his arms. That brought the explosion of sobs he'd known it would. He held the lady of Shadow-dale, murmuring comforting promises and stroking her hair until her tears were spent.
She lifted her head from his breast at last, red eyed and wild haired, and blinked at him tremulously, morose thanks in her eyes.
"Ah, ye're done!" Elminster said brightly. "Now, how about that wine?"
"Ooohh!" In mock rage Shaerl snatched up a cushion from the chair and belted him with it.
"That's better," the Old Mage said gruffly, through the rain of blows. "Beat the wits out of the only arch-mage left to defend Shadowdale, that's a smart girl."
Shaerl let fall the cushion as if its touch suddenly burned her fingers. "Sorry," she whispered, turning her head away.
Elminster chuckled and clapped her shoulder. "I was jesting, lass. Why don't ye settle into a slightly more cozy position on my lapone in which thy knee isn't pressing hard into this old bladder, mindan' I tell ye all the wild tales about which avatar is walking where in Faerun, and what a mess they're making of things. When ye're thoroughly scared, Fll pass on to news of the main Zhent army, currently being warmly entertained in Voonlar by several hobgoblin hands I sent thence ... ah, dropped literally atop their camp, actually."
Shaerl giggled. "I wish I'd been there to see that," she said. "Has it thinned the Zhent host appreciably?"
Elminster nodded. "Moreover, I'm not done yet. It's taken me until now to locate my favorite hobgoblin tribethe Nose Bonesso they'll be er, dropping in on our Zhent friends just before dawn."
"Taken you until now?" Shaerl said in mock alarm. "Why, whatever have you been doing?"
"Holding the Realms together, lass," Elminster told her rather grimly, "and fighting off various old foes who've decided to take advantage of the Fall of the Gods to conquer or destroy as much of Faerun as they can seizethe Malaugrym, in particular, have been troublesome."
"Those Who Walk in Shadow?" Shaerl asked, eyes grave. "Storm and I have talked about them several times, after one attacked you at the inn and you wouldn't tell us anything. They sounded deadly, indeed."
"Ah, but I've acquired three heroes to deal with them now," Elminster said, holding out to her a goblet that shouldn't have been full.
Shaerl stared at it suspiciously, sipped it, and then peered into it again. It was still fullor rather, full again. She gave Elminster a look.
The Old Mage spread his hands with an air of innocence.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed. "So who are these three mighty ones?"
"Sharantyr and two Harpers; men who came to Storm for training."
Shaerl stared at him, mouth open. "The three rangers? Against spell-hurling shapeshifters? El, they'll be kiltedr
Elminster shrugged. "That fate could well befall us all in the days ahead. I can't be everywhere, especially now, with bindings failing and magic twisting awry all across Toril. My valiant three've done well enough thus far, I must say. Even if they all perish forthwith, they've dealt the House of Malaug a shrewd blow."
"Will you write that on their tombs?" Shaerl asked quietly.
Elminster shrugged but said nothing. After a long silence, the lady of Shadowdale whispered, "What will you write on ours?"
The ghost of a smile stole across the Old Mage's face. "Perhaps: I should have been laid to rest here long ago, but I'm still busy defending Shadowdale."
"Oh, no," she said quietly, shaking her head as the bedchamber door opened and a weary Mourngrym strode in, tossing down cloak, helm, and sword. "That's what your tomb should say."
"It already does, lass. Ask Lhaeo to show ye some timeon the morrow. It's a good place to hide with thy heir, if the dale's overrun. Oh, in case he forgets to tell yedon't mind all the floating eyeballs that'll drift around after ye. They do no harm... and if the food runs out, they're good eating."
"Is he teasing you about fried eyeballs again?" Mourngrym asked as he strode into the room. Without slowing to hear Shaerl's reply, he bent over the chair to kiss the top of her head, and then looked up at Elminster as the soft fingers of his wife stole up to stroke his cheek. "And what's this about 'hide'? And 'overrun'? With you here holding the dale against all invaders?"
"We must all fall sometime," Elminster replied very quietly. "That's why I've been grooming every hero I could find these last ten years or so. Someday, defending Shadowdale without me will be your task. Perhaps someday soon."
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 17
The spellmaster's screams broke off suddenly, and he slumped forward in his seat. Hesitantly one of the swordcaptains took a few paces toward the wizard, sword drawn, and then looked back to the swordlord for instructions. Other officers with ready weapons were also gathering cautiously around the seated wizard.
"Is he dead?" Amglar asked bluntly. The swordcap-tain turned to see, taking a few paces closerand then shrank back in horror as sudden radiances flashed and spun around the body, jerking it convulsively.
Amglar's eyes narrowed. Contingencies, perhaps... not attacks visited from afar, no.
His judgment was confirmed an instant later as the Zhentarim shook himself and stood, looking around irritably at all the grim faces and raised swords. "Put away all this steel," he snapped, "and find something useful to dosuch as getting me a hot meal. Spellhurl-ing's hungry work."
The swordcaptain Amglar had just given orders to turned back to the swordlord and spread his hands in a silent question. Amglar waved at him to 'hold hard' for the nonce, got up, and strode over to Thuldoum.
"How are you, mage?" he asked, putting his hand on the hilt of his sword.
"I'll live," Thuldoum said coldly, "and my wits are my own; you need not hack me down for fear I'll turn on you all."
"The Roost's defended, then?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "It's deserted. A little overgrown and tumbledown to be an ideal camp, but safe enough."
"Safe? Why the screaming then?"
"My creation encountered two beings who can shift shape. They were camped in one of the rooms."
"Doppelgangers? If they impersonate our swordcaptains, they can play merry death and chaos with this Sword!"
These weren't doppelgangers," Nentor Thuldoum said grimly. "One of them tried to merge with my monster, destroying it. I was held in thrall, and saw into its mind. It was old, very old, and it hates Elminster of Shadowdale more than you or I do; possibly more than High Lord Manshoon does. They've been feuding for centuries."
"And so?"
"It also hates three other humans I don't know; they looked like rangers. It thinks all of them are in Mistle-dale right now... and was headed there to feed on them, the moment it was satisfied the human shape I saw it ina pilgrim of Tyrwas good enough to fool them."
"You think these two shapechangers are on the way to Mistledale by now?"
"Yes," the Zhentarim said flatly. "I couldn't break free until it ate the monster's mind, but the last thought I overheard was that it was eager to get to its prey."
"Then we'll be just as urgent in our advance on the Roost, once you set us a directional spell so we can get there through the woods, and not have to use the road and the open dale."
"The moment I've eaten," the spellmaster told him coldly, "youll have that spell. The drink, I think, is even more important right now."
Wordlessly Amglar undipped a chased metal flask from his belt and held it out. The Zhentarim regarded it and then him suspiciously, then in sudden resolve undid the stopper and took a sipthen a long pull.
When he could stop gasping, the spellmaster wiped at his numbed lips and asked, "B-By all the gods, what is that stuff?"
"Firewine," Amglar told him, surprised. "You don't get out much, do you, wizard?"
 "Enough," Thuldoum told him darkly. "More than enough."
"Spellmaster?" A swordcaptain was hurrying up with a covered platter that trailed wisps of steam. "Your evenfeast!"
"Ah, that's better," Thuldoum said, and turned to Amglar. "You see, Swordlord? Properly treated, I will deal with you properly in return... just like any man. You might remember that."
"Aye," the swordlord said, remembering Myarvuk's still, staring face as they buried him. "I will keep it in mindalways."
Mistledale, Flamerule 17
The larger of the two owls fluttered down to a branch on the edge of the dale, and grew a human mouth. "Best be wary," it said to the owl alighting beside it. "They may have spying spells setand a single arrow could slay us in these shapes."
"Take on something larger, Yinthrim?"
"No," the larger Malaugrym said firmly. "That'd just invite discovery and attack... and they'll have mages about. No, Atari, just take care. After we avenge the despoiled honor of the House of Malaug, let us return here and await the dawn. On a battlefield, amusements will be many."
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
"Yes?" Sylune inquired, turning from her lamp and mirror and raising an imperious eyebrow. On either side of the tent door, Belkram and Itharr stared out and raised their blades warily, waiting.
"Your servant, Lady," said the voice outside. A man's voice. A familiar man's voice.
"Yes, Torm?" Sylune asked, a trifle wearily. The two Harpers relaxed, trading grins across the dim tent mouth. "Come to undress me? Or just to collect all your Lingerie?"
"No," the thief said in a low voice. "May I come in?"
Sylune turned to Sharantyr, who nodded. The three Harpers were sleeping in all but their boots, drawn swords to hand, and had already lain down. The Witch of Shadowdale was sitting up before a mirror, looking at the body she might well lose again on the morrow. "Yes  but leave your pranks outside the door. I'm not in the mood."
"Your command is my wish, as I believe Elminster once said," Torm said with just a hint of his usual imp-ishness, looking warily into the tent. Belkram and Itharr saluted him silently with their blades; he answered them with a sardonic lift of his brows, and stepped into the tent. He was holding something behind his back.
Sylune turned on her stool to face him. With the candlelight behind her, lighting her silver hair into flame, she looked unearthly as well as beautiful. "Well, Torm?"
"I ... ah, I came to do your hair," Torm said, bringing a fistful of combs and a tiny scent bottle into view. All four folk in the tent stared at him, and his face grew pinker. Looking down at his hands, he said, "I seem to Have grown used to it." He looked up at Sylune. "If you
The smile that the Witch of Shadowdale gave him then took his heart away. Torm swallowed as she stretched forth her hands to him. "Mind? I am honored. Please!"
As Torm stepped forward, eyes shining, Belkram said kindly, "Haul your tongue in, there's a good boy. We've done the tent floor already, and you'll look more sensible with it safely stowed away."
Sharantyr shot her comrade a sharp look, but Torm did not even turn around.
"I know it's been said before," he said calmly, "but if you go around giving folk a piece of your clever mind, Bel-kram, soon enough you'll have none left for yourself."
Belkram spread his hands in apology. "Aye, it's the real Torm. Sorry for shattering your gesture, sir. With all these shapeshifters around, one can't be too careful."
Torm rounded on him then. " Too careful'?" he asked, incredulously. "You folk make berserkers look like timid moles! When you discover what the word 'careful' means, come and tell me! You certainly haven't displayed any great store of it thus far! I doubt Elmin-ster'd dare to do what you have ... let alone this thief!"
"He's right, you know," Sharantyr said with a chuckle.
"Of course he's right," Itharr told her. "We've just been charging ahead as fast as we could into peril after peril, hoping the gods, our foes, and ourselves alike wouldn't notice what reckless fools we're being, and pay us off for it! And now he's gone and spoiled it, and on the eve of battle, too! Bad thief! Naughty, naughty bad thief!"
The tent erupted in helpless laughter. In the night outside, two Rider sentries exchanged wondering glances, and shook their heads.
"Harpers and adventurers... crazed wits, if you ask me," one said feelingly.
"No argument here," his fellow replied, watching the darkness around warily. Something glided pastand he tensed to shout and hurl his spearuntil he saw that it was only an owl. Another owl flapped along in its wake. Now that was something rarely seen.
The guard frowned at the two birds as the night swallowed them again. He shrugged. As long as they weren't arrows, dragons, or flying wizards, things in the sky were no concern of his. He yawned and peered all around again, seeking real danger.
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
"The wizard said it was deserted, and safe," the Zhentilar swordcaptain grunted, "but we know all about wizards, don't we, lads? Swords out, watch wary, and be ready for the worst!" He glared around at the Zhentilar soldiers and told them, "I don't want to lose one of you because someone wasn't looking, or was thinking about his mistress back at the Keep, or how many coins this or that jack owed him. So take yer time, and let's do this the right way. Torches and mage lights to the fore."
There was a creaking and rattling, and the men moved as one. Then the only sound was the soft whisper and rustle of disturbed foliage. The first scouts of the Sword of the South advanced up the steep, thickly forested slope toward the ruin of Galath's Roost.
When the foremost man was an easy ten paces from the overgrown stones of a wall, he turned and shrieked like an owl, thrice. In response, the mage lights drifted silently forward, over the helmed heads of the soldiers, into the dark and hollow places of stone ahead.
Nothing moved. There was no sound that could not be put down to small things that flap or scuttle in a forest by night. Cautiously the Zhentilar moved forward, swords out, probing the ferns and brambles ahead for spring bows, trip cords, and pits. They found nothing.
From here and there along the edges of the ruin, double owl hoots rang out as scout after scout signalled his safe entry into the keep. Files of men bearing torches began to work their way through the trees in answer to the calls.
A scout halted in a dark chamber, hearing the stony scrape of something moving to his right, through an archway thick with vines and mottled moss. "Be that you, Baeremuth?" The whisper was cautious, and the reply was quick and low.
"Aye. Fflarast?"
"Me," Fflarast confirmed, turning his loaded hand crossbow aside to prevent any accidents. "Anything of interest?"
"Lots of rubble, and something's nest... vole bones an' the like. I think this place really is deserted."
"Good. Crazed orders, hacking through the woods in the dark just to camp in a ruin, but..."
"Better'n trying to fight our way into Mistledale down that bow-shot throat, if we'd taken the road. They must have at least a dozen archers  an' a dozen's all they'd need, Fflar, to take down four hundred or more of us, for sure. This way, we can strike out of the woods all along the south side of the dale. Those farmers'll run themselves crazed trying to be everywhere at once to stop us."
"You plot like a swordlord," Fflarast muttered. "We'd better get on, or Dellyn'll be running his blade up our backsides and bellowing at us for being a pair of craven laggards or spies for the enemy."
"Huh. He sees spies under every stone, that one," Baeremuth replied, and suited actions to words by turning over a rock that was suspiciously damp among dry, dusty ones.
There was a sudden rush of rubble and a crash that shook the room. Fflarast cursed and staggered back, trying to keep his feet, but ended up sitting down hard on rubble. When he'd scrambled up and could see again through the rising dust, his mouth went suddenly dry.
Baeremuth Asanter lay under a fallen block of stone nearly as large as a pack mule. Thin rivers of blood were running out from beneath it  and Fflar could just see the tips of the fingers of one hand, reaching vainly for aid. It would reach forever now.
Death GROOJS Impatient
Fflarast Blackriver peered again at his comrade's remains and then backed away very carefully. The rock-fall hadn't been accidental.
Someone had gone to a lot of trouble with wooden wedges and spars and balanced stonesand even flung dust around afterward to hide their work. The wedges were the bright hue of newly cut wood; this had been done within the last day or so.
"Oh, Bane preserve us," Fflarast whispered, backing out of the chamber. At that moment, a heavy booming off to the right marked the discovery of another trap. It was followed by a faint, raw screaming that went on for a long time before ending suddenly in a gurgle. Fflarast knew those sounds. Someone had put a half-crushed man out of his agony with a quick sword thrust to the throat.
"Ye gods and small creeping things hear my plea," the Zhentilar warrior whispered, invoking the old, old prayer of desperate warriors. He wasn't facing half a hundred ores alone on a crag, like the legendary Bor-thin had been when he roared out the invocation, but dead is dead, and Fflarast Blackriver had only one life to lose. Moreover, he valued it just as much as Borthin had his own.
There came another rushing of stone off to the left, and startled cursing. Ahone trap had missed. Good; that meant they were probably all clever feats, and not magic. Maybe-just maybeFflar would see the end of this day.
There came a ringing of steel from behind him. "What's ahead, scout?" a self-important swordcaptain snapped. Pelaeron himself, scourge of lazy soldiers. Oh, joy.
"Traps, sir," Fflarast said, indicating the fallen block and Baeremuth's arm. "I'm deciding how best to safely proceed."
"Well, hurry up about it," the officer snapped, prodding Fflar's mail-covered backside with his sword tip. "We haven't got all night, you know." A file of warriors was crowding into the room behind the swordcaptain. Fflarast looked at themand at Pelaeron's steely eye and then swallowed, shrugged, and carefully climbed over the rubble to the left of Baeremuth, on into the darkness.
Darkness where there should have been light. The torch had been with Baeremuth, and no mage lights were near. "Torch," Fflarast rapped out, keeping his voice as laconic as possible, and reached back.
The swordcaptain curtly waved an armsman with a blazing torch forward. The man reached to hand the torch to Fflarast, shuffled amid loose stones, tripped, and measured his length on the rubble. Stones shiftedand Fflar flung himself backward into unknown darkness as hard and fast as he could.
An instant later, armsman, torch, Pelaeron, and all vanished in a roaring and tumbling of stone as two carefully balanced blocks collapsed sideways, and the floor of the chamber above came down.
Fflarast landed hard on his tailbone on rough-edged rocks and lay there groaning. The chamber he'd come through was now a new-sealed tomb in front of him. He was lying in a cross passageand listening to fresh crashings off to the left as heavy stones dropped and rolled. Tortured metal shrieked briefly as it crumpled, a man screamed for an instant, and then there were only echoes. Echoes that faded slowly into silence.
Fflar shuddered. He snarled wordlessly. Gods take all wizards! Save my bruised behind! Grunting, he rolled slowly and carefully to the left, to his knees, and felt for his sword.
There was another rolling crash in the distance, and shouts. Fflarast found his sword and clutched it, not moving as he fought down fear. He was alone in chill darkness with death waiting all around him. For the greater glory of Zhentil Keep, whose proud lords would not even know that Fflarast Blackriver had died in the service. Or care one whit, if someone told them.
"Hungry beasts take them all," Fflar told the darkness softly, and stayed on his knees, wondering how long it would be until dawn... and if he'd dare try to find his way out of the ruin even then.
Far down the passage, many torches glimmered and danced, and a voice said, "Therethat's armor!"
"I serve Zhentil Keep!" Fflar shouted desperately, flinging up his arms in case someone was very eager to fire his crossbow. No quarrels answered. The voice came again. "Who are you, soldier?"
"Fflarast Blackriver, of Pelaeron's Mace." He cleared his throat and added, "I'm alone. Pelaeron and most of his swords lie under stone beside me. We've struck two traps already."
"It seems a contagious habit," the voice responded dryly. "Stay where you are. I'm going to throw you a torch."
A moment later, fire whup-whup-whupped end over end through the darkness, trailing sparks, and fell amid rubble, showing Fflar a row of archways on one side of the passage, and doors or fallen walls on the side he'd come in by. A bootstill twitching feeblycould be seen in the fall of rubble beside him. Fflarast swallowed and turned his back on it, looking through the nearest arch.
"What can you see, soldier?" the voice asked.
"A huge chamberprobably a great hall," Fflarast answered. "It has balconies around its inside walls, and the roof's gone somewhere. There's moonlight at one end."
"Off to your leftmy right?"
"Aye," Fflarast called. "It looks openbig empty stretches."
Voices murmured down the corridor. The officer called, "Can you get to the torch?"
Fflarast struggled over rubble for a few sweating moments, half-expecting the ceiling to fall on him, but reached the guttering torch safely. "I have it," he called, and swung it nigh.
"Good. We're going to throw you another. Pitch it out into this large hall of yours and tell us what you see."
Fflarast did so. The chamber rivalled the main hall of the Black Altar back in Zhentil Keep. He'd stood honor guard in that dark temple more than once, and knew this hall was fully as large. He told them so.
"Can you say anything of interest?"
"No... broken tiles... heaved and stained flooring, but open. The torchlight doesn't show it all. Nothing moving or alive that I can see."
"Good man. Stay where you are. We're coming to join you."
Fflarast sighed heavily and stood as still as he could, watching the slow and cautious advance of a long file of black-armored men.
It seemed half the Sword of the South was in the passage. Someone had cut a long, bent sapling and lashed a torch to it, and was lighting the high ceiling as they came, finding holes and old rockfalls. There were also two shafts that presumably let light and air down into the keep, but as the soldiers of Zhentil Keep cautiously passed beneath them, nothing swooped down or fell from above. Soon the Zhentilar reached Fflarast, and a swordcaptainanother officious onecurtly ordered him to stand aside.
A torch was tossed on down the passage. Its flickering light revealed that the corridor was blocked completely not far beyond where Fflarast had entered it. An entire room seemed to have fallen from the floor above, pouring a high mound of broken stone across the passage from wall to wall, and almost to the ceiling. Fflar looked at it and shuddered.
"This great hall it is, then," the swordcaptain ordered, turning away. The man at his elbowthe swordcaptain who'd thrown the torch to Fflarastpeered into the vast chamber and murmured, "I have a bad feeling about this room."
"I think we all do!" the other officer snarled, fear lacing his blustering voice. "So let's just get on with it! Menout swords and advance, the first dozen of you! Stop and report if you see anything of importespecially moving bones! I want to get that mage in here fast.. . and then maybe we'll all get some sleep!"
Men moved reluctantly into the chamber. Fflarast stood silent, glad he wasn't among them, expecting to hear another heavy crash at any moment.
Minutes passed, and the men standing still and tense in the passage could hear each other breathing, hoarse and fast. But no cries or falls of stone came, and soon a man whose armor bore the red shoulder emblem of a sword came back to the archway and reported crisply, "No danger, sir. Molds and rubbish down one end, where a lot of water's come in, but there's nothing else in the place except two stairs up to the floor above and a high seatof bare stone, nothing in iton a raised bit at the far end. The place is huge; there's room for a good two thousand blades to bunk down, though I'd not want to be close in under some of the balconies; they look none too safe."
"Well done, sword. Set men to guard all doors and archways into the place; we'll move in. Swordcaptain
Aezel, go out and tell the swordlord. Request that the spellmaster be brought in, forthwithand if the wizard objects, request it again."
There were a few dry chuckles in the safe anonymity of the gloom, and then men were on the move. Fflarast Blackriver came to a sudden decision. He handed his torch to a passing armsman and took up the straight, back-to-the-wall stance of a man on guard duty. He wasn't going into that great hall unless directly ordered to.
Thankfully, the officious swordcaptain passed on into the great hall, and the bulk of the soldiery followed, leaving a few wary veterans standing in the passage with Fflarast. "Neatly done, lad," one of them hissed, and grinned. Fflarast gave him a grin back, and they waited in the darkness together until a bright blaze of torches and the shuffling of many booted feet told them the main body of the Sword had arrived.
Men in black armor seemed to file past forever, until at last the black battle robes of the spellmaster could be seen sweeping majestically down the passage. He was escorted by two swordcaptains and the swordlord himself. "
The supreme commander of the Sword of the South halted close enough to Fflarast to touch him, and said to the wizard, "The men want you to look around and set them at their ease that there's no magic or hidden, lurking things about. Do that, but we haven't time for you to send them haring down every passage in the place in hopes of finding magic treasure that was likely taken away long ago. I'll be outside, supervising the perimeter watch; send Swordcaptain Tschender here out to me if you want anything."
The spellmaster nodded impatiently, seeming eager to get into the room, and the swordlord stepped back, rolled his eyes behind the wizard's back, and strode off back down the corridor, leaving behind at least six veterans struggling not to chuckle as the Zhentarim stepped grandly through the nearest arch.
By unspoken, common accord the men in the passage all moved to stand where they could look through archways, and watch what befell in the great hall. Wizards of the Black Network were not lovedbut they were always a source of entertainment, if one could keep safely out of the way.
Spellmaster Thuldoum strode grandly across the vast chamber, head high, looking slowly from left to right and back again. When he caught sight of the throne, he bent forward in eagerness, and his pace quickened.
"Gods spit down on 'im," one of the soldiers muttered. "He's going to sit on the throne!"
For a moment it appeared that the wizard was going to do just thatbut prudence came to him at the last moment, and they saw him ordering a reluctant armsman into the seat instead.
Gingerly the soldier sat downand from the ceiling above, a ring of boulders on chains crashed down, smashing the vainly leaping man to bloody ruin on the stones. One stone, rebounding from the impact on its chain, nearly beheaded the startled wizard, who staggered backward, arms flailing, as armsmen watched in horror. The soldier who'd been a shade too slow in vacating the throne lay where he had fallen, a broken figure in a pool of blood.
"What did I tell ye?" a soldier said, who hadn't in fact spoken before, all that long night. "Stupid buttocks-brain."
It seemed the wizard wasn't done. He'd caught sight of something behind or beyond the throne that only he could see, and was casting a spell. With all eyes upon him, he made a show of it, gesturing dramatically as he brought the invocation to a ringing climaxand a door slowly appeared in the blank wall behind the high seat. Magical radiance shone blue and silver, brightening to a soft white glow, and spread slowly along an arched frame to outline a large door.
As Zhentilar stared at it and Spellmaster Thuldoum grinned in triumph, Fflarast felt the tense prickling of hairs rising on the back of his neck. Oh, no ...
The Zhentarim brought his hands down with a flourish, pointing at the door, and shouted the last word of the spell that would open it.
The door winked out. Blue-white flashes ran all over the ceiling of the chamber as a web of magic discharged, and Galath's Roost fell in on itself with a roar.
Fflarast saw the ceiling begin to fall and the wizard stare up and then vanish. He did not wait to see a thousand of his fellow warriors crushed, but turned and flung himself headlong down the passage, running as he had never run before.
There was an earth-splitting crash of stone upon stone, and Fflar was flung off his feet. He landed rolling amid dust and falling stones as the castle shook around him. The entire armor gallery had fallen into the great hall.
"Gods!" one of the old soldiers in the passage gasped. The floor, too!" And with a slow, gathering thunder, the overloaded floor gave way, dropping in huge pieces down into dark cellars beneath.
By then, Fflar was sprinting toward the moonlight, sweat almost blinding him. A last leap over rubble and he was out, tumbling in the ferns and coming up running, to get well away from the walls.
"Easy, soldier," said a swordcaptain, putting out a hand to stop Fflarast's frantic flight. "What befell?"
Fflar clung to the man, panting, unable to catch his breathand from the ruined keep behind him came a slow series of smaller crashes.
They listened together, and then the officer shook Fflar by the shoulders. "Well?"
An old soldier came into view out of the same rent in the wall Fflar had used. It was one of the veterans who'd stayed in the passage. He was walking slowly and stiffly, ignoring the occasional falls of small stones from above, and the officer strode toward him with a snarl, dragging Fflar along.
"What befell?" he snapped, eyeing the old man's gray whiskers.
The old warrior looked up at him and said, "Don't bluster, lad... ye're an officer, remember?"
The swordcaptain roared out his anger and snatched at his swordand Fflar hit him in the side of his neck with one mailed fist, as hard as he'd ever hit anyone in his life. He got in two more good blows before the body reached the groundand stayed there.
"Easy,*lad... ye've broken his neck, there's no need to dance on his bones," the veteran muttered, bending over Fflar. "Now ye'd best get away from him and practice looking innocent, afore the next officer happens along."
"Too late," a deep, grave voice said above them both. Fflar and the veteran looked up into the cold, tired eyes of Swordlord Amglar. "But by the sounds of things, I've just lost too many blades to waste two more because cruel, spoiled nobles' sons make bad officers. Consider thisaccidentforgotten, and so long as you have no more, scout, I'll continue to forget it. Now tell me in truth what's befallen in there,"
Fflarast and the veteran looked at each other, and then Fflar spoke. "The spellmaster cast a spell to open a door behind the throne, andI thinkset off some sort of magical trap. The whole ceiling came down at once... but I think I saw him vanish before the stones hit. I ran, then... that's all I saw. Before that, though, my unitPelaeron's Maceand a lot of others I heard die, but didn't see, were crushed in rockfall traps... the keep's bulging with them."
The swordlord nodded soberly. "The spellmaster's magic brought him safely out to us here," he said, his lips twisting bitterly, "and dearly though I'd love to put him to death for this blunder, we need him in the battle tomorrow." He leaned in close to them, and his next words came in a whisper.
"Don't raise a hand to him this night, whatever the provocation... but if either of you survives the coming battle, and he's still breathing at the end of it, I want either or both of you to slay him. He may have contingencies, mindtry to dismember the body and then burn it." He looked from Fflar to the veteran, and then back to Fflar. "Understood?"
"I understand and will obey," the old soldier whispered, and Fflar echoed his words. The swordlord nodded. "Good." He looked at the veteran. "So the ceiling fell... what did you see after that?"
"The floor an' all went down intocellars, I'd guess below, breaking off and sliding slowly; in bits, ye know. Then the balconies broke off and fell in on top of it all, one by one. I saw spell flashes before each fall... the whole thing's one huge trap, sir, if ye ask me. I'd sooner sleep in the hot heart of an enemy campfire tonight than go back in there, sir." He jerked his head to indicate the ruined castle behind him.
The swordlord nodded grimly. "We've been duped by a clever foeand an arrogant, careless wizard." He sighed and added, "Gods curse all wizards. If things in Faerun were all decided by the strength of a sword arm and not sneaking spells, we'd all be a lot better off!"
Rising with another sigh, their commander pointed toward a campfire. "Go and report to Shieldmaster Tesker; you're part of my own mace now, both of you." He turned away, and as they stammered their thanks, he turned back and added, "Oh, and tell him from me that you're both swords now. If we've any armor so blazoned that fits, you're to wear it tomorrow."
"May the gods thank you more than we can, sir!" the old veteran gasped.
Amglar smiled thinly. Tou'll probably be cursing me on the morrow. Save your delight for when all of this is over, and we're standing proudly on the battlements of Zhentil Keep again. Then I'll thank the gods too... just how fervently I do it then, mind you, will depend on what they've done to us since."
All three of them laughed together, the grim laughter of fighting men who shared the same periland the same jaundiced view of the world that had put them there. Then they clasped forearms and parted.
On his way to the fires, Fflar stopped for a moment as he realized something the other two had already knownmost soldiers keep warm with the memories of such moments.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
Sylune of Shadowdale lay awake in the darkness, as she did every night. When one no longer needs to sleep and one's friends are in danger, there is no better way to guard them than to lie among them, feigning slumber, with a watch spell set.
Through its invisible web she felt Itharr stir, plagued by dark thoughts, building his killing rage for the battle tomorrow. Later, Sylun6 sent soothing visions to Belkram when a dream made him start in terror and almost awaken. Sharantyr needed no such kindnesses; she lay in peace, her dreams deep.
They were fine battle companions and good friends, Sylun6 smiled up at the dark roof of the tent overhead. She closed her eyes again and turned her thoughts to the many folk and places and things she must check on and watch over during this Time of Troubles, if the Realms she loved were to survive, and not some shattered, twisted remnant of Toril. At least the hours when others slept gave her time enough for reflection, to consider and anticipate all the consequences and probable unintended effects of her every action. It could truly be said of the Chosen that, more than any other thinking creatures of Faerun, they knew exactly what they were doing at all times.
Right now, Sylune was thinking over the battle tomorrow... the battle that would probably cost her this body. Jhessail and Rathan both carried fragments of stone from her hut should anything befall the one within her now, andsomething was amiss!
A scrying spell swept over the tent, seeing who lay within. Its primary dweomer paused above each sleeping face as Sylune pretended to slumber, but it did not seem to sense the spell web, and withdrew without any disturbance. Yet, that is. Now someone, probably a Zhentarim mage, knew who was in this tent. While most folk still believed that the Witch of Shadowdale was long dead, only a Malaugrym had any reason to view these four sleepers as greater foes than the mightier Knights of Myth Drannor sleeping in other tents.
Sylune let out her breath in a long gasp and rose from her physical body as a ghostly, shadowy image, questing out into the camp around for any signs of fell magic. She could feel the frozen fire of magic items lying immobile in the tent Jhessail and Merith shared with Illistyl and a lady Rider, and a few faint dweomers from enspelled glow daggers riding on the hips of watchful sentries around the edge of the camp... but as long moments passed, no hostile spells came out of the night. Far away to the northeast, near ruined Myth Drannor, a wolf howled, but nothing nearby answered.
Yet a single fireball could do a lot of damage to a force this small. Perhaps she should raise a spell shield. Sylune glanced out of the tent into the still moonlight. To do so over the entire camp would be a punishing drain on the little life essence she had left; she really needed a living being to power such a magicand to do it for long would leave the creature weak and quivering. Not a sword arm could be spared from the battle, though, so ...
Something was disturbing the spell web! Sylune whirled back to face into the tent in time to see two dark, serpentine bodies rise up through the floor, making the softest of tearing sounds. Their heads, which had parted the canvas so swiftly, were deadly steel blades atop undulating, scaled coils, but they rose up in the darkness, growing swiftly larger.
Malaugrym!
The Witch of Shadowdale sent a shrieking warning through the spell web to awaken her companions as she hurled her ghostly form back across the tent. She had to reach her body! Very few of her spells were available to her in this ghostly form, when she could hold nothing solid.
One serpent-blade was arching over her own body, and the other was rearing above Sharantyr, whence it could plunge itself down into her sleeping breast, Sylune cast a curving shield of force over the lady ranger as she swept past.
Just in time! The blade came down at Sharantyr's face and was struck aside by the invisible barrier, trailing a line of white sparks.
The other serpent-thing struck at Sylune"'s body before she could slip into it, throwing its coils around her throat and wrists. The rest of its body extended toward Belkram, blade rearing back to strike.
She'd warned all three rangers to keep silence and find their blades as they awakened, and as the serpent-thing stretched over toward him, Belkram came boiling up out of his furs, hacking at the thing savagely.
Its hammer strike burst through his frantic parry and almost pinned to him to the tent floor, laying open his shoulder as he twisted desperately aside. He roared in pain. Sharantyr tried to scramble to his aid, and found herself a prisoner under the shield, but Itharr came leaping across the tent with his blade gleaming, bellowing, "Aid! An attack! Knights of Myth Drannor, to us!"
Sylune slid into her body, heedless of the strangling coil about her throat. She did not need to breathe, and so could take no harm from the crushing constriction of the Malaugrymwhose constraint prevented her from hurling spells. She gathered her will as ironlike coils tightened about her, and hauled her shield of force away from Sharantyr. She angled it up to wall herself away from the rest of the tent and shoved the Malaugrym's blade away from Belkram in the process.
The shapeshifter simply extended its body farther to strike at the Harper once more, but Itharr slashed it asideand with her companions safe behind the shield, Sylune unleashed a spell that made steel shards burst from her body.
The Malaugrym took them all, convulsing in agony and flailing about the tent, sweeping her body off its bed and hurling Itharr to sprawl atop Sharantyr and the other serpentine Shadowmaster. Belkram sprang upon it and drove his blade home, but it writhed under him, not mortally harmed by his steel, and tried to shake him off. He sat on it, stabbing it repeatedly, so it grew fangs and bit his thigh.
Sharantyr and Itharr rolled around among the furs with the other Malaugrym, hacking and stabbing at it in a frenzyand then the tent flap burst open and the Knights of Myth Drannor charged in.
Florin had doffed his armor for the night and wore only breeches, but his stout sword was in his hand. He dived without pause onto the serpent-thing on the beds, hacking at its blade-head with a flurry of blows, trying to sever the serpent's dark steel. Torm took one look at Sylune, who struggled upright with coils thick around her throat, and howled in fury, leaping across the tent with his dagger flashing.
Sylune kicked out one foot, trying to touch him, and Rathan saw what she was doing. He pushed past the thief and grasped Sylune's ankle firmly. What she said to him mind-to-mind he shouted aloud: "Malaugrym! Use silver on them to slay! They're shapeshifters! Use silver!"
At the door of the tent, Jhessail and Illistyl both nodded grimly. As Merith dived past them and buried his silver-bladed dagger in the Malaugrym that was battering Belkram all around the tent, they ran to where Itharr and Sharantyr were stabbing the other, and murmured spells as they slapped their hands at the blades, heedless of sharp, flashing edges.
The weapons glowed blue-white as Jhessail snatched her hand back, shaking drops of blood from it- When the glow faded, they shone silver... and the wounds they made did not close. Sharantyr and Itharr set to work chopping with frenzied speed, gasping their thanks.
Florin severed the blade-head of the other Malaugrym with a last blow and grabbed at the gory serpent-form, trying to hurl it away from a groaning Belkram. It grew many fanged mouths as he pounced on it, and one of them shot forth on a long stalk to snap at Torm, who ducked his head aside. Rathan raised his hand to cast a spelland the jaws expanded with lightning speed to envelop it, biting down with cruel force.
The fat cleric doggedly intoned his spell, sweat running down his faceand fire from his hand burst forth within the Malaugrym, causing it to recoil with a roar of mingled fury and pain.
Illistyl's eyes narrowed as flames gouted from the beast. She dug a hand into her purse, snatched a silver coin, and snapped out a cantrip that crumbled the metal to powder in her hands. Flinging the powdered silver into the flames, she leapt back.
The explosion that followed was spectacular. The coils around Sylune1 spasmed, flinging her freeand then smashed into her body with the force of a charging war horse, hurling her like a rag doll against the side of the tent. She struck, tumbled, and came to rest atop Torm, who madly stabbed the Malaugrym and sobbed with rage.
"It's dead, Torm," Sylune told him gently, putting a hand on his shoulder as she looked over him at the gory lumps that had been the other Malaugrym. "And so's the other one."
"Gods," the thief hissed, eyes blazing, "they could have killed you!"
"Yes," Sylune agreed, "but they did not, thanks in part to you." She put up her hand to wipe the sweat from his brow, then leaned forward and kissed him. He stared at her for a moment, and threw his arms around her, weeping uncontrollably.
"It's been rather a long time since any man got this angry for my sake," she murmured into his shoulder, "but try not to get yourself killed defending me, Torm!"
"Why not?" the thief said when he found enough control to speak. "Have you seen what they did to your hair?"

8 The Ring of Skulls
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
Sharantyr shades her eyes again and is sure of it. Another flash, there... and another. And then Zhents are pouring out of the woods in a hundred places, the bright morning sun glinting on ebon armor.
There is a stir along the banks of Swords Creek, and the short bark of Kuthe's order off to the right. The Riders of Mistledale move amid a growing thunder of hooves, hurrying along the southern edge of the dale to meet the invaders. Lance tips glitter as they sweep down.
Restless, the lady ranger hefts her own gleaming blade, licks her lips, and watches Kuthe's lance lowered with menacing force. He flicks it expertly, taking out the throat of a Zhentilar as he passes, and with bright blood still trailing from the tip, buries it deep in the face of the first Zhent horseman to appear out of the woods.
The man crumples as he's flung back out of his saddle. A score of crashes follow up and down the edge of the trees as Zhent maces and spears find shields or the Riders behind them and a horn sounds from just behind Shar, calling the retreat.
Horses wheel and rear. Zhentilar soldiers race in to gut the retreating warriors as they turn away. One Rider tarries too long, and Shar sees him go down, hacking frantically with his blade at a dozen foes as they drag him to ground and stab him. The riderless mount in fear lashes out with its hooves, leaps wildly into the air, shedding broken Zhent armsmen like rag dolls, and lands running west down the dale to where Kuthe is rallying the Riders.
Arrows hiss past Shar's shoulder as the farmers of Mistledale, faces set in fear and determination, strike their own first blows against the foe. Only a few black-armored figures fall, and now they're streaming out of the trees by the hundreds, a glittering black carpet of death that advances west with casual confidence. More than one of the watchers along Swords Creek gasps or retches in fear; there are thousands of Zhents!
"Gods," a man nearby mutters in despair and disbelief, "have they been breeding armsmen like rabbits? Look at them!"
Certain death was coming for them, and they all knew it. Shar traded tight grins with Belkram and Itharr as they heard Term's voice lifted in jaunty song:
"Come, oh, come play with me! Bring, oh, bring your sword, and We'll be threer
The Riders had succeeded in keeping the foe east of the creek. Secure in their numbers, none of the Zhen-tilar had moved to outflank the paltry line of waiting warriors... yet. Nor were they bothering with any sort of tight formation, merely gathering in mobs around a dozen steadily advancing standards.
Shar's lip curled in derision, and then she shrugged. Outnumbering us hundreds to one, what do they need of discipline or battlecraft?
The Sword of the South came on without pause or parley. Shar looked again at the Riders, wondering if they'd mount another charge to disrupt the steady Zhent advance. Kuthe's helm turned; the white-horse blazon caught the sun as he looked back at her. And then his helm jerked sharply back east again.
There was a murmur from the defenders of Mistledale as they all saw what Kuthe had espied the casting of, from his high saddle: eight tiny balls of fire spun up into view and roared across Swords Creek, howling through the air and growing in size and fury as they came.
The line of defenders raised their shields and shifted uneasily as the roaring conflagration spun nearerbut then the spinning flames and sparks rippled, pulsed .. . and were gone. Swarms of birds and smoke spread harmlessly across the sky. The unseen wild magic shields in front of the defenders had worked.
A shout of satisfaction arose from the defendersbut it was answered by a ragged cry of excitement, rising from the Zhent ranks. A trumpet blared, and the Sword of the South charged forward. They lowered their spears and trotted into the creek, a sea of soldiers flanked by two bands of mounted armsmen. The horsemen to the north splashed slowly down through the creek, avoiding the roadno doubt fearing traps. Their comrades to the south spurred across the creek in a spray of waters, and gathered speed as they hurtled up the west bank toward the Riders.
Shar looked from one forest of black helms to the other... and back again. Was it going to be all over in the first few breaths? There aren't enough of us to stand for more than one charge... and that only with luck.
The screams began. The Zhent horsemen to the right were raising frantic shields or toppling from their saddles as a storm of blades twinkled and flashed around them at faces and throats.
"First blow to Chauntea," Itharr murmured, watching them plunge on into oblivion. None of the Zhentilar horsemen reached the leveled lances of the waiting Riders, and few managed to pull out of that storm of steel to flee.
Lighting cracked and flashed low over the Zhent ranks, stabbing at the defenders of Mistledale... but became a stream of red rose petals, and drifted away on the quickening breeze. There were chuckles up and down the line of defenders. The sweat of quickening fear was making Shar's blade sticky; she shifted her grip on it and snatched a last glance to the north before the first Zhents reached her.
The northern Zhent cavalry had crossed the creek and were lowering their lances to meet a single line of Riders that had come out of nowhere to bar their path. With an exultant roar they swept down through the phantom forms of the waiting Riders... and plunged into the spike-lined disemboweling pits. At about the same time, the arrows of the best archers of Mistledale found them.
A spear cast out of the Zhent lines clipped the edge of Sharantyr's shield, and she found herself in the midst of what all battles become: a crowded, confused whirlwind of hard-plied steel crashing down on shields and armor, skirling off opposing bladesand sinking into screaming men.
A Zhentilar armsman swung a huge morningstar at her. Shar threw herself to her knees. As the weapon rattled past overhead, she struck upward with her shield, hurling her foe off-balance. She swept her sword up into the throat of the next charging armsman, who staggered on, dead already, and ran his blade into the armpit of the man with the morningstar. They crashed down together, and Shar shook their blood out of her eyes and took a hasty step aside to put her blade into the neck of a tall armsman who'd engaged Belkram, and was straining to overwhelm the snarling Harper. The man reeled and went down, spraying her with more blood. Belkram gave her a fierce grin of thanks as they faced the next Zhents shoulder to shoulder.
Arrows were still hissing past; there were so many Zhents that the dale farmers could fire over the heads of those in the fray and yet find targets in plenty. A horn rang out, calling the defenders of the dale to retreat to the second line of standards.
In answer to its call, Shar smashed her way free of a tightening knot of Zhentilar and backed hastily from the creek. One of the orange standards that marked a gap in the wild magic shields fluttered off to her left, and she saw Jhessail and Illistyl crouching by it, behind Merith's raised sword and shield. Their hands wove in spellcasting gestures.
Shar slashed an overly enthusiastic Zhent across the face, and as he went down, watched the spell of her fellow Knights take effect.
Upended helms full of metal shards and salvaged arrowheads were rising from the ground with slow, menacing forceone, three... six in all. Zhents were backing uncertainly away from them, but one man hacked at a helm with his blade.
He was the first to fall, ripped apart as the magic erupted, transforming the helms and their contents into pinwheel sprays of arrows that tore into the Zhent host on all sides.
Zhentilar blackhelms screamed in chorus and fell in great swathes, as if harvested by a gigantic, invisible scythe. Shar felt her gorge rise. She turned away from the sight and hastened back to the rallying standards, Belkram and Itharr at her side. There were still thousands of Zhents left; the Sword of the South was surging on across the creek, heedless of the cost. As the defenders gathered at the standards another horn call rang out from their midst.
This one was meant for the hidden Harpers. Tripwires hidden among the trampled grass were tightened now, and. ..
As it happened, Shar watched the first shield rise, spilling a startled Zhent forwardand revealing a Harper with a loaded crossbow. He discharged his quarrel into the face of the nearest Zhent officer, dropped the bow, and snatched up his spear to ward away a charging annsman. That gave the other two Harpers in the hole time to scramble out, gain their feet, and begin their race through the Zhent rear, hacking and slashing at the full run.
Men and women in leather boiled up out of the ground in two dozen places or more, and there was much shouting and chaos. Shar had a brief glimpse of a furious-looking man in robesa Zhent wizard, she realizedstumbling hastily away from a seeking blade. Then she was much too busy to look at anything but the foes all around, their blades falling on her own with the force of hammers.
The Sword of the South rolled into the defenders again, a wall of grim men wielding blades and maces. They pushed the outnumbered dalefolk slowly back to higher ground. Another horn cried out from just behind her, and Shar flung herself flat.
An instant later, arrows hissed over her in a deadly stream, and the front rank of Zhents melted away, hurled to the ground like torn thorn bushes. A brief blip of the horn indicated it was safe to rise.
Sharantyr found her feet and stared across blood-soaked ground at the Zhents... over the frightened faces of the Zhentilar rearguard, back across the creek. There, Harper swords flashed, message runners fell, and Zhent officers shouted and flailed in disarray. A rolling ball of flame told her at least one Harper spell had workeda lone Harper paused, tossed sweat-soaked hair out of his eyes, and lashed half a dozen pursuers with a bright net of fire.
The Harpers were pitifully few. Most of those fighting south to a rallying point were going down, attacked from all sides by enraged and fearful Zhents. Shar saw one armsman catch his foot on the edge of an open Harper hole and fall helplessly away from the ranger he was attacking. The man leapt across the hole, breaking free of a ring of Zhents, and raced toward a banner that had been set alight as a rallying point.
Not far behind Shar, Margrueth muttered an incantation. A flying Zhent spear headed past her, and she dived sideways to smash it down with her shield, for fear it would reach the sorceress.
It skidded into the dirt, and an instant later came Margrueth's short bark of satisfaction. A wall of twinkling swords blinked into solidity in the air around the surviving Harpers, chopping down pursuing Zhents. Men jerked and fell in that deadly whirlwind.
A black-robed Zhentarim wizard strode toward the wall of swords, careful to keep in the lee of a trio of large shields held high by armsmen. He raised his hands and gestured grandlybut was answered by fearful shouts as his magic went wild. Instead of fading away, the blades flew in all directions, butchering Harpers and Zhents alike.
A strident horn call began another Zhent cavalry charge, striking at the Riders again along the southern edge of the dale. The ground shook as sixty or more horsemen gathered speed, heading west. The Zhentilar foot soldiers advanced, too, striding purposefully to overwhelm the few defenders.
Shar caught a seeking sword on her dagger, warded it away, and drove her own blade into the man's throat. As he spun away, clutching the spraying gore, she sprang to meet the next man, leaping high to put all her weight behind the downstroke. Her steel glanced off the guards of a slow parrying blade and sheared through its wielder's jaw. He fell back, choking, and was trampled by his fellow soldiers in their hunger to get at her.
"Hold the line!" she heard Rath an Thentraver roar, somewhere to the left.
A Harper fell against her leg and went down, a sword in his face. Only Belkram's swift blade saved Shar, and they retreated together, Itharr striking aside Zhent blades from one side.
"Kiss my steel!" Torm shouted defiantly nearby, and was answered by a short scream.
Shar reeled, found her footing again, and glared wildly around. The defenders of Mistledale were reduced to a few knots of struggling swordsthemselves and the Knights of Myth Drannor. The gaps in the line were so large now that the farmers, back behind the fray, could loose shafts freely through themand only that paltry but deadly fire was keeping the Zhents from sweeping forward to surround and rout them.
The horns called anew. The defenders fell back again, seeking another line of standards as lightnings danced briefly among the Zhents. The creek was far off now, across a sea of bobbing black helms, and the iron taste of grim despair rose in Sharantyr's mouth.
They were all going to die here, today, swept away by a thousand Zhent blades, sent to their deaths by Elmin-ster in this dark time on Faerun., . .
With a crash that shook the battlefield, the Zhent cavalry and the Riders of Mistledale rushed together. A breath later, something flashed across the sky. The Zhentarim spellmaster tried another futile spelland was answered by Jhessail and Illistyl, who sent a dancing serpent of flame through the ranks of the advancing armsmen.
Shar heard Sylune^s voice rise in sudden passion. An instant later, a knot of Zhentilar armsmen levitated into the air, waving weapons in futile horror, lofting high above the battlefield.
Some of their fellows were too slow witted to avoid walking beneath the shouting spell victims and were gawking up at their fellows aloft when the Zhentilar plunged back to earth. They crashed down like so much spilled kindling to smash into bloody ruin on the earth and raised blades below.
The Zhent advance faltered. In the sudden lull, a man in old and shiny black Rider armor pushed past Shar and strode into the Zhent ranks, a shimmering arrowhead of force preceding him, cleaving men who stood in his way.
"Here me, Tempus, Lord of Battles!" the man roared as he went, hands raised and empty. "Let the old warriors rise, if it pleases ye! Raise a ring of skulls, I entreat ye! Oh, Tempus!"
It was the old Rider, Baergil. A Zhent, drawn sword in hand, ducked around behind the old priest's magic and raced in. As he jerked back the white-horse helm and drew his sword viciously across the exposed throat, there came one last, bubbling cry of Tempusss!"
The spell was complete. Baergil's body blazed with sudden blue fire. His slayer fell back in awe. The dead priest hung upright in the streaming flames, hands uplifted to the sky, and men murmured at the sight.
Cries of awe and fear came as the trampled turf under the Zhents erupted. Staring things of mottled green and brown bones burst up out of the soil... rising through the horrified armsmen to form into a silent, floating ring of skulls just overhead. Many battles had been fought by the banks of Swords Creek, and countless warriors had fallen here, to lie under the earth until called up by so mighty a magic.
The eyes of the skulls flared into sudden fire, the same cold, eerie blue flame that blazed around Baergil. Zhentilar cried out in alarm and began to runbut nothing could flee fast enough to escape the rays of chill light that lanced from the skulls through the Zhent host.
Where those blue rays touched the running or striding armsmen of the Sword of the South, flesh melted away, leaving only bones. Skeletal warriors rushed on for a pace or two, and then collapsed.
The Zhents on the far side of the creek and the defenders of Mistledaie alike stared in horror as thousands of armsmen died.
When no man was left standing between Baergil's corpse and the creek, the skulls turned until the rays that streamed from their glowing sockets met in the heart of the field of bones. Blue light pulsed and built to almost blinding fury, and gauntlets were raised to shield eyes all over the battlefield. An armored form strode along in the heart of the radiance.
It had been striding forever, it seemed, fearless and patient, a figure twelve feet tall and clad in a full suit of gleaming plate armor, visor down. As the rays began to fade and the skulls sank back to the earth in silent unison, the armored figure was suddenly among them, treading on Zhentilar bones without a sound, walking toward Baergil.
"The War God," someone whispered. The defenders of Mistledaie fell back at the armored giant's approach.
In eerie silence, two flaming blue gauntlets reached out and took up the priest's body, cradling it against the massive chest. The Knights of Myth Drannor parted in respectful silence. The helm turned slowly from side to side to survey them, and for just a moment Shar felt the scorching weight of eyes that blazed like two red flames.
In silence, Tempus strode on, west toward distant Ashabenford, bearing Baergil's body in his arms. To those who watched, it seemed the body began to burn, blazing its own miniature pyre.
The implacable avatar vanished over the hill... and left the handful of weary men and women to defend Mistledaie against several thousand shaken Zhentilar soldiers.
What was left of the Sword of the South stood along the east bank of Swords Creek, still more than enough armsmen to crush the few who resisted them. Their
hireswords and booty brothers were among the fallen; those who remained were veteran Zhent blackhelms. In fearful, sullen silence, they eyed the field of death before them, but orders were shouted, and officers ran about brandishing maces... and reluctantly, the soldiers of Zhentit Keep began to advance.
"It must be now," Sharantyr heard Sylune say quietly.
In the distance, there came a sudden burst of radiance as the Witch of Shadowdale appeared in the heart of the Zhents ... in the small space between Swordlord Amglar and Spellmaster Nentor Thuldoum. The men broke off their arguing to gape in unison at the beautiful woman who stood between them, the glow of her magic fading around her.
"Well met indeed, gentlesirs," Sylune" told them softly, raising her lithe arms in glee.
The magic missiles that streamed out of her riddled both men, even before the fireballs and bolts of lightning leapt forth in then* wake.
Amglar and Nentor of the Zhentarim died screaming.
Sylun6 sang a terrible, wordless song of rage and sorrow for the body she was losing, and her slim-hipped form blazed white with the fury of the magic coursing through her.
Zhentilar stared at the dancing, burning figure in their midst, and then perished in the whirlwind of unleashed spells that sprayed death in all directions from the woman.
Florin swallowed what might have been a sob as he watched bright flames gout from Sylune's eyes and mouth, streaming across scorched turf to immolate shouting Zhentilar, whose vainly hurled spears vanished in that inferno.
There came a quickening of the spell fury, and Sylune's head was gone, blown away with the awesome energies pouring from her. The headless body turned as if it could see, and raised its hands to burn fleeing Zhent horsemen from their distant saddles. Flames streamed from her neck and hands... and before she turned away, her hands were gone, and spells were now leaping from the stumps of her arms.
Someone was rallying the Zhentilar as the stream of spells flickered, and then ceased... and men in ebon armor charged across the smoking ground, blades raised to slay the swaying, disintegrating Witch of Shadowdale.
"No!" Belkram roared, waving his own blade in sudden fury. "For Mistledale! For Sylune!" He rushed across the strewn bones, his sword held high. Itharr and Florin raced to catch up to him. Sharantyr was moving before she thought about it, following her companions into a band of scattered, dazed-looking Zhent blackhelms still several hundred strong.
Beside her, Shar saw flashing legs and a bouncing bosom, and turned to see Jhessail sprinting along, weaponless, with Illistyl running at her heels and Merith moving with fluid grace and drawn sword.
"Wait!" Rathan puffed, behind them. "Save some Zhents for me!"
They were almost at the stream and the grim-faced foremost Zhents who stood there when what was left of the Witch of Shadowdale vanished in a burst of snarling flames that threw men headlong or sent them fleeing wildly back toward the trees.
Then Belkram, Itharr, and Florin splashed across the stream, roaring out their grief together. They fell upon the Zhents like three maddened reapers mowing wheat. It was the last such harvest that their foes needed to see: the shattered Sword of the South broke and fled, an army no more.
Belkram ran on toward the dying flames that had been Sylune, and Itharr and Florin paced him, sword-ing the few blackhelms foolish enough to get in their way. Sharantyr tried to catch up, but her lungs were burning; she'd never seen men run so fast before.
By the time she reached the spot where Belkram knelt, the Harper was on his knees amid the smoldering ashes, weeping.
The stone cradled so gently in his gauntlets had cracked in the heat. "Lady," Belkram sobbed despairingly, "leave us not!"
But there came no reply but the creak of cooling stone. The Harper raised a face that streamed tears and cried to Florin, "Do something!"
The Knight smiled down at him and undid the last buckle of his chest armor. As it fell open, he drew forth something he wore on a chain. A lump of stone. All of the gathered adventurers saw a streak of ghostly radiance arc from the shattered stone to the good one.
The stone winked once with its stored fire, reassuringly. Florin took off the chain and handed it to Belkram. "Yours, I think," the Shield of Shadowdale said quietly. "I think she's grown tired of Torm's tricks."
Belkram's eyes shone. He was still struggling to speak when the Riders of Mistledale swept past with lowered lances, ruthlessly riding down fleeing Zhents. "For Baergil!" they bellowed as they went. "For Baergil!"
Kuthe was in the foremost saddle, swaying and pale, blood all down his front from a deep wound in his shoulder. "Kuthe!" Jhessail called as he spurred his mount past. "Have done! They're beaten!"
He rode in a wide circle back to her, face set, and said, The field may be ours, Lady, but Mistledale is my home. Every Zhent who can still walk by sunset is a sword that can strike from darkness when we sleep! Ill not rest until they're all dead and done!"
Fflarast Blackriver and the old Harper who'd seen the sky rain wizards for the first time yesterday lay side by side under the very hooves of Kuthe's mount as he snarled those words, but they did not hear him. Dust lay on their staring eyes and still faces, and the darkening blood spilled under them both was the same hue:  one could not tell which was the Harper's, and which belonged to the Zhentilar.
The leader of the Riders spurred away, the weary hooves of his mount trampling both bodies. Florin watched him go. "Where is the captain of the Riders?" he asked quietly.
"Who?" Rathan asked. That lady paladin?"
"Aye," Florin replied, "I've known her a long time."
"Oho," Torm spoke up, "an old lady friend, eh? May"
His crowing words ended in a sharp gasp as Illistyl thrust a sharp hand into his gut. "Someday, clever tongue," she warned him, "you'll say just one word too many...."
"Uhhh," Torm agreed, doubled over.
"Indubitably," Rathan translated, looking at the breathless thief with interest.
Florin, ignoring them all, was striding across the field and looking for Captain Nelyssa.
He caught sight of her at last, hard by the trees on the southern edge of the dale, well behind the last standard the defenders of the dale had rallied around. A mound of Zhentilar lay heaped about her and the sprawled bulk of her horse. A band of blackhelms had tried to outflank the frayand paid for their cunning with their lives. There'd been over thirty of them, though, and it seemed the veteran Zhentilar armsmen were the measure of one paladin of Chauntea.
In a small lake of blood at the heart of the heaped dead lay the hacked and twisted form of Nelyssa, captain of the Riders of Mistledale, her armor torn open down the bloody mess of her front, and her notched and broken blade still clutched in her hand. Even as Florin broke into a run and shouted, lifting the heads of Harpers and farmers who knelt by the still form, he knew he was too late.
Nelyssa's face was unmarked, but bone-white; she looked very like the young lass Florin had known so long ago... but her eyes were dark and sightless. The ranger stared into them as he sank down beside her and let out a long, shuddering sigh of grief. Was this madness of strife going to claim all the best hearts and minds before it was done?
"I need your sword, noble Falconhand," said a voice as rough and sharp as the skin of its owner. Margrueth of the Harpers laid her hand on Florin's own. The ranger looked up at her, finding it suddenly hard to drag his eyes away from Nelyssa's frozen face.
When he did, he was shocked at what he saw. The fire of life had gone out of the Harper sorceress, too. She was gray to the lips, and her skin was sunken and shriveled so that it seemed a skull thinly draped with flesh. Only the eyes told him the feisty Margrueth still lived, eyes dancing like two lively dark flames. "You will aid me in this, Knight. I must have your oath on it."
"My oath?" Weary and sad as he was, Florin still found that he could be startled. He looked around at the wondering farmers and the grim-faced Harpers, leaving him alone with the living woman and the dead one. They looked back at him. His oath. Whatever for?
And then, because she was old Margrueth and she was a Harperand because he was Florin Falcon-handhe turned to meet those wise old eyes. Holding her gaze, he lifted his voice to say clearly, "In Mielikki's name and mine own, I, Florin Falconhand, born of Cor-myr, Lord of Shadowdale and Knight of Myth Drannor, promise on my honor to aid you, Margrueth, on this day and on this field, as you would command me."
"Nicely done," Margrueth said with a smile. "Now this is what 111 have you doand swiftly, for the spells I wove today burned much life from me ... I'd not live to see sunset whatever befell. Know for your own comfort that I act freely in this, and my wits are mine own."
She laid herself down, wheezing a little, atop Nelyssa's body, face to face, "Count four breaths, noble Florin, and plunge your blade into my back. Mind that it goes right through me, and into the lass beneathand that you hold it thus for a breath, no more. Do this." And with that order, she put her lips to the paladin's mouth.
Florin stared down at her, swallowed, and then said hurriedly, in the two breaths left to him, "You shall be remembered with honor, Margrueth!"
As he'd been bid, he brought his blade down in a clean thrust, right through the old sorceress, and into Nelyssa beneath, where her armor was all riven away down her front. Margrueth jerked once under his steel, and blue-white light, like many tiny lightnings, crackled and danced around the joined lips of the two women.
Florin drew his blade out carefully. For a moment, the same radiance clung to its suddenly shining length. It looked as bright and sharp as it was when new, the scrapes and nicks of battle gone from it.
Yet more wondrous far was what befell where it had been. Margrueth's body was twisting and contracting into a thing of curling smoke, to the accompaniment of one last, dry chuckle.
That sound faded, and Nelyssa's revealed body stirred, color returned to her face, and a light came into her dark eyes. She slowly sat up.
"Florin?" she asked softly as the Harpers and farmers around cried out in wonder, gasped, or wept, "Have I slept? Is the day wonor lost?"
And Florin Falconhand cast aside his blade and knelt to take her in his arms. "Won for some, Captain... won for Mistledale. And yet lost for others, lost forever. Margrueth traded her life for yours."
The captain of the Riders turned pale. "No!"
"Aye, Nelyssa," Florin said gently, "you must know this, and hear the truth. She chose freely, and worked a magic I did not know, binding me under oath. Mine was the blade that took her life, and gave it to you. She was at the end of her life, drained by this battle... and brought you back to us."
The paladin of Chauntea flung her arms around him and wept.
"Hmmph," Torm said to Rathan as they trudged across the field, taking up the best weapons and tossing them on a farmer's sledge to bear back to Ashabenford, "women never do that to me. My arms awaitsee? Here they are, two of them, and fairly well matched to each other, tooand do ladies sob their sorrows away into my breast? No! Is it the cut of his chin, d'you think? The wave in his hair? His strong, manly bearing? Those gleaming teeth?"
"All of those," his friend agreed. "Now give me a hand with this halberdthree dead ones draped over it, look ye; threeand take comfort in the fact that ye've probably been in almost as many strange beds as he has... an' that ye're better far at stealing things."
"Umm," Torm agreed, looking again at the woman in Florin's arms. His eyes fell to the dark, sticky puddle of blood they shared, and he swallowed. So much blood. .. .
"When we get back to the Six Shields," he told Rathan fiercely, "I'm going to get very drunk!"
"Oh? Don't forget that ye lost the bet with Sylune! We won the battle, so ye have to wear the scanties ye were putting on her, an' go sit in the window!"
"But she's... dead. You won't hold me to"
"Oh, but I will," Rathan said softly. "In memory of her, ye will sit in that window this night, if I have to break thy limbs to get the fripperies onto ye."
Torm tore a gorget free of a Zhentilar who'd not be needing it anymore, and flung it with a clatter onto the sledge. "I'm going to get very very drunk!" he said fiercely, "first."
"Hmm," Rathan said, lifting a body into the air with one hand to pluck daggers free with the other, "that'll make the dressing an amusing affair. May I watch?"
 "He'll be too drunk to stop anyone from watching," one buzzard commented to the other, shifting a little on a low, bare branch as a nearby farmer gave them a dirty look, bent to pick up a fallen bow, and then shrugged and turned away, knowing he couldn't hit the tree, let alone two watchful carrion birds.
"Faerun certainly affords more entertainment than Shadowhome," Bralatar said, remembering the battle as he looked out over the ravaged field.
"And because the peril to and consequences for us are the less, one can really enjoy it," Lorgyn replied, watching Merith and Jhessail embrace, and Illistyl, after a moment, turn and look around the battlefield for Torm.
"I cannot understand the thinking of Yinthrim, to throw life and all the unfolding chances of this world away just to try to avenge kin who may well have plotted his own death, had they lived."
"Atari, yes," Lorgyn agreed, "would always plunge into battle, given the slightest of excuses, but such folly is unusual for Yinthrim." He looked at the site of the tent where the two Malaugrym had perished the night beforenow a trampled sward strewn with sprawled bodies. He shrugged. "I guess battle hunger overtook them."
"Battle hunger? Attacking three sleeping humans is something done out of 'battle hunger1?" Bralatar had a fine, showy grasp of sarcastic incredulity when something aroused him to it. He shifted on the branch, fluttering his feathers in irritation. "Admit they liked to slay folk, and fatally misjudged the fervor of these mortals, and have done with it. Two fewer fools to breed will make our house that much the stronger."
"A phrase fit for a speech of any Shadowmaster High," Lorgyn acknowledged, bowing his head. "So when, in your judgment, would it be best that we make our strike against the three who dared to intrude into Shadowhome, and slay so many Malaugrym?''
"When those three rangers are much older, and we've seen far more of this worldor at least, not now," Bralatar replied with his usual sharp humor. "Those two maids over thereJhessail and Illistyl, if I heard arightstill have spells left. And who knows how many of those Harpers are mages? I'm not descending into the midst of a battlefield where one old man called down a god not long ago!"
"And the Lord of Battles at that," Lorgyn agreed. "Now is not a good time."
" 'Now' is never a good time," Bralatar said dryly.
"At first light," Florin ordered, looking around the map-strewn room, "we ride north to Shadowdale, where our swords are sorely needed."
Kuthe nodded grimly. "Haste must be our course, yes." He looked at the cot where Nelyssa lay, nodding weakly.
"I shall ride to Shadowdale on the morrow," she said firmly, "and any man who shouts at me not to go will serve me as a replacement mount!"
Kuthe closed his open mouth stiffly, and turned his head away, then swung it around again, opened his mouth to speak, caught her eyeand closed his jaws once more.
Torm and Rathan, scratching at their rough, stiff bandages, sputtered with mirth and went out hastily.
"Ah, 'twas worth all that jabber to see Lord High-and-Mighty's face!" Torm chuckled. "Now, let's be finding that drink I was talking of..."
"I'll go with ye," Rathan said grimly. "Too many friends fell this day. I want to feel a small fire in my belly this night."
Torm raised his eyebrows. "And why not? You do that every other night; why change things now?"
Rathan favored him with both a weary look and an unpriestly gesture.
*****
Just after the two Knights had wearily passed around a corner of the street, a door swung open, and Illistyl hurried, white-faced, out into the waiting night. Her mind yet burned with the sight of a Rider's crushed leg being amputated, the grim faces of sawing surgeon and patient, the Rider's rolling eyes. Illistyl shook her head as she stumbled along in the darkness, but could not shake the images away. .. .
Suddenly something was rising within her. She fell heavily to her knees and vomited into the dark grass.
A weary Rider turned his head at the sound, watched her sobbing out the contents of her stomach, and turned back to sewing up a comrade's slashed arm.
"Hmm," he said thoughtfully, "it seems great adventurers are human after all."
His older companion winced as the needle went in again. "Oh, they're human, lad ... all too human. That's where most of the trouble begins."

That Wizard Must Die
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 18
The mists of morning were still drifting off the river as the Knights of Myth Drannor and the Riders of Mistledale rode north together, leather creaking loudly among the riverbank trees. They pressed on, stiff and sore from yesterday's fighting, but more than one Rider wore a wondering smile as he looked around at the awakening forest on this bright morning he'd not expected to see.
"Such a victory," one man muttered to his companion. "Thousands we sent to their graves. 'Twas the favor of the gods, to be sure, that we weren't all sent to the Deathrealms in their first charge, and Mistledale laid waste before highsun!"
"Aye, we place much store in the favor of the gods," his comrade replied, "or we'd not be riding straight into another battle!" He pointed ahead. Plumes of smoke rose into the sky to the north.
Shadowdale was burning.
The Knights and Riders pressed on up the Mistle Trail, urging their mounts to greater haste.
Torm waved a hand at the smoke and said loudly and bitterly, "Look! Well get there in time to join the Zhents at their fires, with the dale pillaged and burned and not a man or maid left to fight for!"
"Say not so!" Merith told him, but Kuthe and Nelyssa nodded slowly.
"We've taken this way in haste before," the captain of the Riders said, her eyes very dark, "and spent more than a day in the forest... and that was a few riders on fresh, swift mountsnot a force this large that fought yesterday."
Belkram was frowning and holding his head to one side, as if listening to something. He straightened in his saddle and said, "There is a way to take us there more swiftly."
Florin Falconhand, who rode at the head of the column, turned his head. "You mean magic," he said grimly. tfls that wise, given the chaos ruling sorcery?"
Belkram listened for a breath longer, and then shrugged. "Sylune says teleportation seems unaffectedit served her even on the battlefield yester-morn, passing wild magic shields to do so."
"Without a body, she can't cast any spells," Kuthe pointed out. "What good is it if the Lady Jhessail here hurls one of us on ahead? A lone rider makes a better target than a relief force!"
"There is a way to take us all," Belkram replied slowly, passing on the words from the stone that held the Witch of Shadowdale. "Elminster taught it to m her."
The ranger nodded. "There is a risk," Florin said; it was a statement, not a query. He looked around at the others, holding up his hand for a halt. "Are you willing to take on that danger? All of you?"
The Knights nodded without hesitation. Among the Riders were some swift glances back and forth, and shrugs. One .leaned forward and asked Florin, "Are you?"
The Shield of Shadowdale shrugged. "Of course."
"He's a Knight of Myth Drannor," Rathan explained as if to a child. 
"Which is to say, he's a reckless idiot," Torm elaborated in a stage whisper.
The men of Mistledale were still chuckling when Captain Nelyssa said crisply, "I will undergo this magic. Let us be about it."
"We'll need some space," Belkram said, and pointed into the trees. "That glade there."
Nelyssa nodded. "Let all who are unwilling to chance this spell stay here on the trail." She turned her horse's head and guided it into the trees.
As they followed, Belkram looked at Jhessail. "You must do the casting."
She wrinkled her nose at him. "So I'd gathered."
No one stayed on the road. When everyone was arrayed around Belkram, he took off the chain and gave it to Jhessail. She held up the stone, and grew still for a moment as she listened. Merith, who'd been in such castings before, slid deftly from his saddle and lay on the ground, taking hold of one hoof of his horse and one of his lady's ankles. Florin edged his mount over to take a firm hold on Merith's horse, and Sharantyr, Itharr, Belkram, Captain Nelyssa, and Kuthe followed, creating a human chain.
Jhessail smiled her thanks, and said, "Draw in close, everyoneto touch at least one other person or their mount. Remain that way, and don't pull free until we're elsewhere."
She drew a deep breath and put the stone into her mouth. Closing her eyes in concentration, Jhessail followed Sylune's guidance in the casting. The loop of chain dangling from her chin rattled as she moved. After a brief series of gestures, she threw both hands high into the air and froze.
A blue mist raced out from her body to swirl around them all. It rose, growing thicker and winking with small flashes of blue light... light that was suddenly blinding, blotting the world out in an shifting, drifting swirl... that faded away to show Faerun again. 
They were in a different clearinga larger space littered with felled trees and stacked firewood. To the north was daylight, where the woods gave way to the first fields of Shadowdale. Through the cloaking trees, they saw the stone bridge over the Ashaba, where a watchful guard always stood.
A guard of three frightened old men, whose spears trembled in their hands as they shouted in alarm at the sudden appearance of so many horsemen. Florin took his hand from Merith's horse to raise it in a reassuring salute.
Jhessail shuddered and collapsed silently onto her husband, the stone falling from her mouth.
"Is she?" Belkram and Itharr said together, leaning anxiously down. Merith cradled her as he reached out, plucked up the stone that was Sylune, and held it up to Belkram.
"Drained, not dead," the elf said softly. "A mass tele-port is something far beyond her Art. Though Sylune gave direction, my Jhess worked the spell."
"We must still make haste," Nelyssa reminded.
Illistyl frowned. "Florin! Come back here!"
The ranger, who was halfway to the bridge, acknowledged the relieved greetings of the dalesmen before he turned questioningly.
"I haven't Art to equal Jhess's," the younger sorceress said, "but I can manage something you should use now."
Florin was already hurrying his war horse back to her. Firefoam had paced restlessly back and forth behind the lines of the battle yesterday, and was eager to get into a proper fray; he snorted and tossed his head as they approached Illistyl, fearing he would be relegated to stand and watch, again. The diminutive sorceress stood looking up at him as his great muzzle lowered to her nose.
"How would you like to fly?" she asked softly.
Firefoam's bugle awoke echoes from the trees around and made many of the other horses stamp and whinny. 
"Fly ahead," Illistyl said, looking up at Florin, "and see where we're needed. Rally folk, and return if you need us anywhere in particularotherwise, we'll just charge on up the road and kill Zhents!"
"A shrewd grasp of tactics," Captain Nelyssa said dryly.
Illistyl cast her spell with deft speed.
Florin scooped the limp form of Jhessail from Merith's arms and settled her against his own chest.
"Done! Get you gone!" Illistyl cried, waving her hands; Florin smiled his thanks and saluted as Fire-foam bounded aloftand was gone across the sky, heading for the distant Tower of Ashaba.
As they hurried across, Jhessail asked the first old farmer on the bridge, "How goes the battle?"
"Not well," he rasped. "Too many Zhents!"
"A problem we're familiar with," Torm agreed grandly, urging his horse off the bridge.
An instant later, the ground rocked and thundered. Riders fought to control snorting mounts and stay in their saddles as they gaped at a huge ball of flame that rose up, up into the sky over Shadowdale.
"The tower?" Illistyl gasped, white to the lips. "Florin?"
"Not the tower," Jhessail said, shaking her head. "But close by, west and south."
"The temple of Lathander," Rathan grunted, "or I'm an idiot."
"You are an idiot," Torm pointed out.
Rathan's reply was a certain wordless gesture with his mace as he hauled on the reins, taking his horse to one side of the cart road and gaining room to gallop. Torm cast a quick look back to see all the Riders doing so, and pulled his mount to the left, catching a glare from Kuthe for his tardiness.
"Ready, all?" Captain Nelyssa asked crisply. "For-wardr
At her yell, they nudged their mounts into a gallop and swept north into the heart of Shadowdale.
The smoke lay like a haze in the air here, drifting out of the trees to the east, and the fields around them were green and deserted. Up ahead, they could hear the swelling sound of shouts and screams and the clangor of steel on steel. Here and there a blade flashed as it caught the sunlight through the smoke and swirling dust.
The crossroads in front of the Old Skull Inn was heaped with dead. The twisted mounds were so high the Zhentilar, advancing in a great horde from the east, had to scramble and climb. The grisly, slippery wall was being held against them by desperate dalesmen wielding axes and blades.
Among the dusty defenders were Storm Silverhand and her sister, Dove, both clad in battered and scorched plate armor but bareheaded, their silver tresses swirling as they fought. Storm leapt into the air and smashed aside a foe's blade, her other hand snaking in to take him by the throat. Muscles rippled in her arm as they crashed back down to earth together. The Zhent blackhelm struggled for a moment in her iron grip then fell limp, his neck broken. Two of his fellows scrambled up the mound of dead, waving blades to get their chance at the Bard of Shadowdale.
Dove Falconhand took that chance away, rushing along the line of defenders to thrust one Zhent desperately aside into the other armsman. Off-balance, the blackhelms stumbled among the corpses. Storm dumped the man she'd just slain atop one, and kicked the other in the face with her boot. He fell down the heap, head rolling limply, and was smashed aside by more Zhentilar rushing up to challenge Storm in their turn.
"That's the problem with Zhents," Rathan growled as they turned their horses toward the black-armored host crowded up against the wall of dead. "There're always too many of them."
"Lances down!" Nelyssa cried, and led the charge.
Through the thunder of pounding hooves they heard someone of Shadowdale cry, "The Riders! The Riders of Mistledale!"
"And the mighty Torm, too!" the thief shouted back, just before they crashed into the Zhent lines.
Men reeled like broken dolls under the impact of hooves and lances and thundering war horses, and when the press of bodies slowed their progress, the Riders let go their lances and laid about themselves with swords and maces.
"Shadowdale!" Dove Falconhand snarled, leading a charge from the ridge of slain.
There were screams of agony and frustration from the Zhents, packed too tightly together to raise weapons or move from the blades.
A desperately wielded spear sought Term's thigh; he sprang from his saddle and vaulted into the fray, drawn sword extended between his boots. He came down atop a Zhentilar and rode the man to the ground, stabbing viciously with the dagger in his free hand. The man convulsed and lay still; by then Torm was two kills away, his slim blade and dagger sliding in and out before the close-packed Zhents could react.
With a wall of corpses around him like a shield, he struck out from between their bodies, swift and sure, thrusting, dancing away from blades ,.. until the crash of a felled Rider and his horse cleared some space, and the dead began to topple and slump all around.
Into the opened space leapt Storm, clapping a gasping Torm on his shoulder. "Bravely done!"
"Ahall for... you... Lady," Torm huffed, trying to essay a courtly bowand slipping in gore so that he lurched to one knee. The fall saved his life; a whirling axe meant for his head flashed harmlessly through empty air.
Storm hauled him upright. "The battle's this way," she said helpfully, pointing with a sword that was red to the hilt.
He gave her a fierce smile in answer. Then his jaw dropped. "By the gods, look!" he bellowed, pointing. Storm turned in time to see Belkram, Itharr, and Shar-antyr advance another pace through the ranks of Zhen-tilar. Fighting in unison, standing close together in a human arrowhead, they were dealing death with furious speed.
"The Rangers Three," Storm said, watching her pupils in admiration.
The hesitant gangliness she'd seen all too often the day she'd fought Belkram and Itharr at the farmhouse was gone. Now they moved like dancers, deft and quick. Sharantyr was the key. Her smooth style had drawn the two Harpers into a team. Storm began to believe their survival in the castle of the Malaugrym was more than good fortune bolstered by the aid of Mystra and Elminster. She shook her head in pleased admiration and threw herself into the battle once more, coming up alongside the Rangers Three in their bloody foray into the Zhent ranks.
The Rider charge had cleared space enough to fight, and the easy killing was done. Fresh Zhents were pressing forward for their first chance to fight, and there seemed no end to them.
They'd struck at Shadowdale from the west, and from the north. Some fell magic had wrought a great explosion and fire westward, hard by the Twisted Tower. There was fighting all over the dale, and the day might still be lostbut this welcome, unexpected aid had come from Mistledale, from whence she'd expected only more blackhelms.
"Azuth be with us," she breathed, feeling fresh sorrow at the thought that Mystra was no more.
Storm swept her notched long sword up to strike aside a reaching halberd. Catching hold of it as the man rushed helplessly forward, she pulled, sprawling him to the turf in front of her. A dalesman stabbed the Zhent in the face before he could rise, and from somewhere near at hand Storm heard the deep laughter of Bronn Selgard, the smith. Dove must be rallying the last folk from the inn to join this push, to drive the Zhents back into the trees.
There was a ringing sound as the great iron-headed hammer Bronn wielded crashed down on some unfortunate Zhent's helm. The winded Rangers Three began to fall back. A spell hurled bodies in all directions, tearing a breach in the wall of corpses behind her.
Storm turned, frowningcreating a breach for the Zhents to pour through? What simpleton had birthed such a plan?and then laughed aloud in delight.
"For Shadowdale!" came the roar from beyond the wall. Warriors in full plate armor rode through the breach, lances gleaming. At their head, three figures rode abreast: Florin; Mourngrym, lord of Shadowdale; and Shaerl, his lady.
" 'Ware!" Storm yelled to the Rangers Three, waving them aside.
Dove sprang acrobatically across the path of the charging horses, somersaulted in a clanking of protesting armor, and fetched up beside Storm. Just then, the lances of the charging dalefolk came down, crashing into the massed Zhentilar in a great screaming of men and horses and tortured metal.
As first, the horses were slowed by the sheer weight of blackhelms standing against them. The mounted armsmen of the tower spurred out and around them, striking at the foe on either side. When the last horseman had charged, the Zhent lines had fallen back a good twenty pacesa distance marked by a carpet of black-armored fallen.
The dale riders pulled back to spare their horses from Zhent blades, and a cheer went up from the weary farmers and merchants who'd held the wall of dead so long against the forefront of the Zhent army.
A little space opened up between the defenders and the army of Zhentil Keep; Dove stared across it and hissed, "Oh, for some arrows..."
"All gone, hours ago," Storm told her, and they embraced wearily, eyes on the foe. Both sides had paused to catch breath, it seemed, staring at each other across the fallen, but making no move to attack.
"Gods, look how many there are," Shaerl murmured. "Can we hold them until sunset?"
"We must," Mourngrym replied shortly, looking around at the dead. "And dark'll bring the wolves and wild dogs out to feed, too."
"Well fought, you three," Storm called to Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr, who'd sat down together on some dead Zhentilar, rubbing at aching shoulders and bruised forearms.
"Of course," Itharr replied. "After all, you taught us."
Storm chuckled. "To dance with your blade, aye, a littlebut fighting as one is your own doing."
"They're coming again," Dove said, striding forward. " "Ware, all!"
She swung her sword in wide, wild arcs to loosen stiffening muscles, and set herself to meet the Zhentilar attack; a cautious affair this time, with two or three blackhelms moving against each defender.
"This could be bad," Belkram murmured.
Sharantyr sighed. "Just try to stay alive ... I need you both."
"You do?" Itharr asked, adopting Term's manner of mock astonishment.
"I do," Sharantyr growled back at him. "We've got those Malaugrym to catch, remember?"
"Gods," Belkram cursed as he caught a hard-swung Zhent blade on his own and was driven a pace back. "Do Elminster's little tasks never end?"
"Where is Elminster, anyway?" Itharr panted, slashing a staggering Zhent across the face and bringing his blade up into the throat of the blackhelm fencing with Sharantyr.
"Off saving some other corner of the Realms, no doubt," Belkram said, driving his foe back with a few solid swings.
"I don't care about other corners of the Realms," Torm called to them, "only the one I'm in."
"An essentially selfish philosophy," Dove scolded him.
"But one that all lesser mortals must needs cling to, if they want to cling to life," Torm returned archly. He threw the blade in his hand into one eye of a snarling Zhent, who was charging in beside the one he was fighting. The man crashed down, and the thief leapt high to avoid being knocked over. His Zhent opponent wasn't so nimble, and toppled sideways, whereupon Hammer-hand Bucko, the wagonmaker of the dale, calmly crushed the man's head with a sledgehammer.
"Thank you," Torm told him politely.
After gaping at him for a moment in amazement, Hammerhand grinned.
A trumpet rang out, the Zhents pressed forward, and the defenders of Shadowdale became all too busy to talk.
A tortured scream topped the fray as Nelyssa's mount reared up, three blades in its belly, and went down. The paladin threw herself clear at the last moment. Only some desperate bladework by Storm and Dove, sparks dancing from their furiously plied blades, kept the captain of the Riders alive until she could find her feet and fight on.
Kuthe grunted in pain and went down, a spear through him, and a moment later the Rider beside him fell, transfixed by three Zhent blades.
"Too many of them!" Merith snarled in frustration, swinging two swords in deadly, whirling unison. "What price sundown now?"
"There's too many! We can't hold them!" Illistyl shouted, swinging a sword awkwardly.
"We must hold them!" Mourngrym snarled back at her from the heart of a knot of Zhents.
 "Where in the name of the Seven Dancing Gods is the Old Mage?" Storm raged as she carved her way to the lord of Shadowdale. "Especially now that we need himfor once."
"The temple," a wounded priest of Lathander gasped from behind her. "He stood alone thereor with a woman, some saidagainst Bane himself!"
Storm turned and stared at the rising column of black smoke that marked the distant temple. "No," she whispered. "Oh, no." She leapt clear of the fray, scant inches ahead of a Zhent blade, and sprinted away across the heaped dead.
Sharantyr turned, hacked through a Zhent black-helm twice her size, and saw Storm spring into the saddle of a dale war horse. It leapt into a full gallop like an arrow shot from a bow, heading west.
Though Shar whirled back to face another foe, she still saw Storm's anguished face in her mind. No one should look like that. Nothing should ever happen in Faerun to make the Bard of Shadowdale look like that.
She parried the Zhentilar blade and spun away to run after Storm's racing dapple gray, heedless of the heaped dead.
Uncertainly, Belkram turned to follow, but Itharr shouted in alarm.
"Look you!" He pointed the other way, east beyond Krag Pool, where new plumes of smoke were rising through the green leaves of the trees.
"Gods," Shaerl gasped, her face white, as she stared east into the blazing forest. "The Zhents have fired the wood! The dale may become our pyre yet!"
The defenders of Shadowdale, too few and too weary to fight a blaze, stared at the quickening flames in horror.
"Now," Dove said firmly, " 'tis time!" She held up the blade she bore and called, "Eanamorrath!"
Lighting leapt from its suddenly blazing length, crackling along the line of blackhelms to strike the blade Lord Florin wielded. His sword flashed. Florin hissed at the shock of the bolt surging through the weapon, and then the lightning leapt back, sinking back into Dove's blade as if it were an errant phantom returning home.
In its wake lay a blackened path of dead Zhentilar, sprawled wherever the bolt had danced, and the air was sharp with the smell of the strike that had felled them. The surviving Zhent warriors drew back in disarray, leaving the defenders alone with the dead.
"Florin!" Itharr shouted. "Lord Florin!"
The Shield of Shadowdale turned his head.
Itharr called, "We must pray to Mielikki for a downpour!"
"But if all the gods are cast down and powerless..." a Rider leaning on his sword nearby said.
"No! He's right!" Illistyl snapped. "Mielikki and El-dath dwell in Faerun; their power is sourced here. Shaerl! Is your maid, Jenna, anywhere about?"
"II sent her to help Jhaele tend the wounded at the Old Skull," Shaerl said doubtfully, wiping sweat and tangled hair out of her eyes. "Why?"
"She worships Eldath," Illistyl snarled. "Come!"
"And what of the Zhents?" Mourngrym bellowed. He waved an arm to indicate the hundreds of Zhentilar still facing them, though the blackhelms seemed to be retreating to the trees at the edge of the dale.
"Fall back," Illistyl told him. "Back to this ridge of bodies. You can see the inn from there, and Florin and the Rangers Three can join Jenna in prayer. If the woods burn, we are all lost, whether we fight for Shadowdale or Zhentil Keep!"
They all stared at her a moment, then scrambled to take up new positions among the mounds of fallen. Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr found themselves trotting toward the inn, panting, while Florin ran on ahead, feet racing as if he were rested and fresh. Shaerl and Mourngrym ran along behind them as rearguard, and the stout priest Rathan puffed after the hurrying band.
"Gods," Belkram said, stumbling as his throbbing feet sent fresh lances of pain upward. "I don't think the gods meant me to be a hero! Being one of those sleeping temple guards seems more within my grasp!"
"Here, now!" Rathan Thentraver said in offended tones. "Dost thou slander the holy?"
"All too often," Itharr told him as they picked their way among the wounded laid on blankets, restless in their pain. Someone was wailing in grief, and blood-soaked bandagesand flieswere everywhere. "What does this Jenna look like?"
"Just look for Florin," Belkram instructed, pointing at the open inn door, "He must be in th"
The ground heaved. A deafening howl of rage and grief smashed into the ears of everyone in Shadowdale. Thrown to their knees, the three rangers looked back east, from whence the sound had come.
A sphere of raging flames hung high in the air over the burning trees, spinning. The flames from the woods below were being drawn up into it. It pulsed, becoming almost blinding in its furybut against the bright whirling flames a figure could be seen standing in its fiery heart; a wildly leaping figure clad in the black tatters of a gown.
"Oh, sweet gods spare us!" someone gasped.
The woods were dark and hissing now as the last fire soared up out of them. The sphere spun once more before it hurled its fire down in a ravening beam of utter destruction, into the Zhent soldiers crowded along the Voonlar road. They did not even have time to scream before they were tumbling ashes. The scouring flames lashed the very stones into rum.
The Central Blade of Bane's Black Gauntlet was no more.
"Who?" one of the Riders asked in awe, staring up at the figure who stood on empty air above the trees, all her flames spent now. 
"The Simbul," Shaerl whispered. She turned, swept a tankard off a table, and drained it at a single gulp.
"The Witch-Queen?" the man gasped. "The Shield Against Thay?"
"The same," Shaerl replied bitterly, and turned into Mourngrym's arms with a sob.
"This can only mean one thing," the lord of Shadow-dale said grimly, holding his shaking, weeping lady. "El-minster is dead."
147
1O Time to be JmAy HeRoes
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 18
In a deepness that very few Malaugrym know, in the ever-shifting cellars of the Castle of Shadows, there was a place where thinking shadows glided endlessly through the gloom, vast and slow. These ponderous phantoms circled a grotto where shapeshifters who bore the title Shadowmaster High had been wont to hide the bones of rivals and others they'd deemed expedient to make 'vanish.'
The grotto was a cold cavern of rough rock where waters dripped endlessly among the pale, chill glows of fungi, but at its heart two seats faced each otherseats carved out of the flanks of massive, ancient stalagmites... and these seats each bore a curious graven symbol believed to be the sign of Malaug himself. It was a rune found in few places in the Castle of Shadows, and all of its occurrences were well known in the lore of the House of Malaugsave these two.
There was not much else to see in the bone-white glow but tumbled rock and bones... but there was much to feel, hanging heavy and watchful on all sides.
Even the youngest Shadowmasters had heard tales of locales in Shadowhome where mighty magics slumbered, which only the Shadowmaster High could pereive and wield. This was one of those places.
The young and ambitious Malaugrym Argast and Amdramnar had recently discovered the grotto in separate, private explorations. Both had been guided in their wanderings among the shifting shadows by the writings of Shadowmaster High Melvydur. Dead these thousand years and more, Melvydur mentioned the grotto as the place where the dynasty he founded was conceivedand where he laid to rest the bodies of all his sons who rebelled against him. His writings end when the last son succeeded in destroying Melvydur.
This secret grotto of silent bones and uncaring rock was a gloomy place... but it was a place of power. Ancient magic lay heavy in the air, awaiting the right word or gesture to awaken it. And more than anything else, those of the blood of Malaug hungered after power.
Argast and Amdramnar were rivals, and perhaps the best of the younger generation of Shadowmasters. Certainly they were the most subtle, patient, and polite in their dealingsand so commanded the most respect, not to mention fear, among their elders. Those elders would have been most surprised to see them sharing any place in relative peace.
Indeed, as they sat facing each other, their faces were grim and wary, their fingers very close to hurling slaying spells and wielding powerful and deadly items. Yet they sat, and did not move to rend and slay. Their elders were right to fear them.
"Have we agreement?" Argast asked.
"By my name, we do," Amdramnar replied. "Have we agreement?"
"By my name, we do," Argast responded as they watched the drops of their blood slowly flow together into the vial.
They rose as one, and Argast took the vial and stoppered it, handing it to Amdramnar to place on the seat he'd vacated. What befell one Shadowmaster would now also afflict the otheruntil the vial was broken by someone using the right spells to prevent grave damage to them both.
"If this agreement is to end, we must both meet here to quench it," Argast intoned, continuing the old ritual both of them had read about, but never witnessed.
"Agreed. When we meet, each of us may bring with him one other of the houseno more, and no other beings," Amdramnar responded.
"Agreed," they affirmed together, and walked away from the heart of the grotto, to where the cloaking shadows slid endlessly by.
"Were it not for so many destroyed," Argast said as their eyes met again, "I should never have agreed to work with you in anything. And yet now I welcome the prospect."
Amdramnar inclined his head. "I, too, hope that trust, even friendship, can grow out of this. Whatever befalls, we must work together to destroy the three beings who dared to strike down so many of our blood. They have done it once, and could well come again... and what if they brought the Great Foe with them this tune, or an army of lesser mages?"
"You befriended them," Argast said, "seeking to learn their ways and secrets. Do you think they will seek to return?"
Amdramnar opened his mouth to reply, then sighed, shrugged, and shook his head. "I know not. Their deeds and words did not always strike a good match togetherand they were accompanied by some sort of vigilant sentience of greater sorcery than I command."
"Elminster, of course."
"No, I think not. A gentler, more neutral regard... less knowing, less... afire with humor, let us say. I touched this intelligence only fleetingly."
Argast lifted his own shoulders and let them fall. "As you say, you have had contact with this mysterious other, and I have not. It is not Elminster, then." He hesitated as they stepped together onto the .back of the flapping shadow they'd been waiting for. It bore them away into roiling dimness, and Argast added, "Please do not take my next query as anything more unfriendly than a desire to know if some future use can be made of it. You fancied the woman as a mate?"
Amdramnar regarded him expressionlessly. "I did, and do."
"Have you any knowledge of her feelings toward you?"
"She did not know what to make of me. I was not the menacing scaly thing she expectedbut she never relaxed, though she did trust me so far as to open herself to attack on several occasions ... at least once to see what I'd do, I am certain."
"And what would you do if you met her again?" "I do not know. I must learn more of her true powers, aims, and loyalties. At present I still desire her as a mate and as part of our house. Although the damage done by her weapon was... unprecedented, she was acting at first to defend herself even as you or I would against treachery from a fellow Malaugrym. That she and her companions came here to do us harm is, I think, likely. That they did not know us is certain, and so I must conclude that they came here on principle, or following the orders of another,"
"Elminster? If not the Great Foe, then who?" "That is one of the things we must learn." The shadow bore them into brighter and more tranquil surroundings, a placid blue pool wreathed in mists, and Amdramnar added, "Yet if the need arises, I would strike to slay her and her two companions without hesitation. The men must die in any case, for the honor of our house. If the woman proves less than I believe her to be, death can come to her whenever her usefulness in breeding the next generation of Shadowmasters is done."
He turned his head to regard Argast. "On the other hand, she is but one of many countless maids who walk Faerun right now... and many of those, I'm given to understand, have a strong talent for sorcery."
"More suitable mates may await both of us?"
"And many of our fellows, perhaps. We shall see. Faerun awaits."
"So many riches... denied to us for so long."
"At the command of the Great Foe, rememberbolstered by craven Shadowmasters High who feared both his magic and the access all of us would have to things not under the control of the Shadow Throne."
"This is truth," Argast said softly. "Even I've seen more in the great scrying portal over the years than Dhalgrave intended, and I am one of those who pays little attention to intrigues and watching over other planes. It is no wonder some of our eldersMilhvar comes to mindspent much time and effort on covert expeditions into the realms of Faerun, seeking magic."
"And mates," Amdramnar said with the ghost of a smile, "if the rumors are true."
"He has offspring in Faerun?"
"Ignorant of their heritage, and perhaps weak in their shapeshifting, no doubt," Amdramnar replied, "but yesseveral, I believe."
Argast frowned. "Unknown offspring aside, how many of our kin walk Faerun right now?"
"Whoever survived battle with Sharantyr and her companions, when the sword took her back to Faerun. Ahorga, I have seen... and two others who took many shapes, but are possibly Atari and Yinthrim. There are others: two working together, and at least one more. I cannot believe all of these fled the battle; some of the kin must have seized upon the emptiness of the Shadow Throne to defy the standing decrees and make their own ways into Faerun."
"Bralatar and Lorgyn have both vanished from their chambers," Argast said quietly, "and have been absent for more than a dozen feastings."
"So," Amdramnar replied, one side of his face lifting into a smile, "let us do likewise, you and I. To Faerun, to take the shapes of others, and watch patiently, and learn before we move against these mortals. In the chaos ruling Faerun right now, we dare not rely on magic. Any foray there now will be very dangerous but what opportunities for hunting!"
"I feel its attraction more strongly as the years pass and we visit it not," Argast replied. "I begin to understand why so many of our elders defied the Great Foe even when they knew death awaited them."
"Shadowhome and the planes we can readily reach never felt limiting in any way before," Amdramnar said quietly. "Faerun seemed to be no more than some sort of fanciful land of beasts where the restless of our house went to play, and when careless got hurt there. But now. .."
"Let us prepare," Argast said, eyes shining. "I want to be in Faerun without delay!"
The shadow glided to the place it always did, and they stepped off it and went on up a dusty stair choked with the skeletal remains of dead and forgotten servants, into an undercrypt several stairs beneath the Hall of Griffons. There they parted, ascending into the castle proper by different ways so as not to be seen together by interested eyes.
The gigantic shadow that had been their steed drifted on to a place the two Malaugrym did not know. There it rose into a different form and called forth four spherical stones of winking blue fire to orbit one of its wrists endlessly.
"And so two more of the restless of our house go to play," it said in amused tones, "one at least formally welcoming the prospect! Interesting times in old Shadowhome, indeed!"
And as it chuckled, it did something else in the darkness, and vanished to other, deeper places. There were many locales in Shadowhome that neither Argast nor Amdramnar had ever visited, or known about. That lack of knowledge, though, didn't seem likely to prove fatal to either of them. Yet.
*****
Faerun, Shadowdale, Flamerule 18
The serene radiance of Selune fell upon ravaged Shadowdale as it did on all the rest of Faerun this night. Bright moonlight gleamed on both the armor of weary dale sentries and the bloodied gear of the dead. There was no sound but the howling of wolves and the bawling of cattle whose dead masters would never return to milk them. The two women who stood in a lonely place of scorched stones were as silent as the night breezes.
One was the Bard of Shadowdale, Storm Silverhand, her face grim and smudged with dirt and old, dried blood that was not her own. She still wore her armor, and leaned on a sword that had seen much use this day. Had she not recently drunk of a certain well-hidden decanter in her kitchen, she would be trembling with weariness now.
The other woman had no body left to tireshe was a thing of ghostly radiance, a softly curved bright shadow in the night. She floated upright above the stones of her long-burned hut, face lifted to the stars, and began an invocation to Mystra more ancient than she was... and that was old indeed. No one disturbed them, or came near; such doings at the ruined hut were why the folk of the dale still called her the Witch of Shadowdale, and shunned this place.
"Great Lady of Mysteries, hear me," the ghostly lady said into the night, picturing the dark, star-filled eyes of the goddess. "Your servant Sylune entreats."
She and Storm both knew well that Mystra was no more, but perhaps the one who had taken her place would hear... or steadfast Azuth, the Hand of Sorcery.
Her call fell into silence, and she stood there in the moonlight feeling more lonely than she had for years. "Mystra, hear me," she said at last. "Azuth, hear me."
From out of the darkness of vast distances, a voice echoed. A voice she knew. "Azuth hears, little sister."
"Lord of Spellcraft," Sylun6 breathed, almost shuddering in relief, "does Elminster live?"
There came a twinkling of lights in the air above her, soft green and blue radiances that sparkled as they spun slowly about each other. From out of the heart of this occurrence came the deep, confident voice of the god Azuth. "I did not feel him pass... but I cannot feel his mind now, either. Much is in chaos; I cannot be sure of his fate."
"I stand in Shadowdale," Sylune told him. "We have resisted the work of Bane here thus far, at great cost."
"Aye, great cost, indeed. Mystra returned to us, and was lost again forever. She and Elminster fought Bane for possession of a Celestial Stair"
Sylun6 closed her eyes in despair, but forced herself to say on. "I need your guidance, High One. We face another peril: shapeshifters who call themselves Malau-grym, who came into Faerun when the Sword of Mystra brought three heroes back to us, three who went to the shadow realm of the shapeshifters to do Our Lady's work. They are loose in the land, working mischief."
The great voice seemed to hold a tone of bitter amusement. "These days, it seems half the multiverse is loose in Faerun, working mischief... one Azuth among them. My powers are twisted and lessened. 'Tis all I can do to hold the Realms together, with all the irresponsible spell-hurlers active. Red Wizards, Calishite lords, Zhentarim, and near a thousand ambitious lone wizards whose magic is mighty. Gods and mortals alike are trying to take advantage of the widespread chaos. And without Mystra, magic is truly unreliable. I work constantly to keep the fabric of all from being torn utterly by these ignorant wielders of Art so that Toril will not be dashed apart in utter destruction. You have my sympathy, Sister, and my regrets... but you must contend with the House of Malaug on your own; I dare not intervene. Gather your allies, and work as you have never worked before. 'Tis time to truly be heroes."
Sylune stood motionless. "May you succeed in your task," she said softly.
"And may you find the good fortune Our Lady Mystra could not," the god replied, "and prevail. Know that I love you, Sylune, and would aid if I could. Look not to seek divine aid again until this Time of Troubles is past." And the small storm of twinkling lights melted silently away, leaving the night sky above the stones empty.
The ghostly figure of the Witch of Shadowdale stared up at the empty air where Azuth had manifested, then turned toward her sister Storm and reached out.
"Take me away from here," she pleaded, her voice on the edge of tears. "Take me back to your kitchen, and the fire, and your arms."
"Of course," Storm said quietly. She bent to take up the stone Belkram had surrendered, and Sylune saw that her face was wet with tears.
They walked south and then east together, taking a long route around the heart of the moonlit dale to avoid challenges and the worst of the dead.
"You heard all?" Sylune asked grimly.
Storm sighed. "Aye, this dale is going to be very different if Elminster is no more."
"He was a fatherand a friendto you more than any of us," Sylune said softly. " 'Tis I should be comforting you."
Storm shook her head wearily, as if to clear it. "I did not feel him die. I can't be sure ... he may still live."
"And if he does not?"
"Then it is as Azuth told us: time for usall of us Sevento truly be heroes, without his comforting aid and guidance... and vigilance for our safety."
Sylune sighed. "I never thought I'd be alive without him to turn to. He seems as permanent a feature of the Realms as Mount Waterdeep, or Anauroch, or the Shaar." They climbed a stile and descended into a field of parsnips. Halfway down one of its long rows, she added, "Sharantyr is beside herself! I thought she'd tear the two prisoners apart with her bare hands."
"She gave her blade to Mourngrym because she feared she'd want to use it," Storm said softly. "My own fury is past. El told me how tired of life he'd become more than once this last season."
"Should we let those two go?"
"Mercy has ever been our watchword here, and yet..."
Storm's voice trailed away, and with slow deliberation she sheathed the blade she held. "I may come to feel the rage Sharantyr holds again, tomorrow. Since Doust became lord, we have always shown the people that justice by fair trial holds sway in Shadowdale. So we will have a trial and justice, and Mourngrym will have the hard task of sentencing."
She was silent for a long time before she added in a whisper, "I am glad of that, because I don't feel like holding trials at all... I want to go out and kill things."
"Your sword arm?" Sharantyr asked, watching Itharr wince and reach for his shoulder.
He nodded. "I've worn it out these last two days."
"And seen enough death to last several lifetimes," Belkram added quietly, handing him a goblet. Itharr took it in his good hand and hastily sipped at it to prevent a spill.
Sharantyr dug her fingers into the muscles of his shoulder, and he shuddered uncontrollably. He handed the goblet back to Belkram hastily.
"Thanks... I'll want the rest of it when this long-taloned beast here stops tearing my shoulder apart!"
Sharantyr managed a playful snarl, but then fell silent again, her face sad. She shook her head when Belkram offered the decanter to her, and asked him, "When will you get Sylune back?"
"In the morning, Storm said." Belkram poured himself a goblet and drained most of it at one gulp. "I imagine they're meeting to talk about what they must do to defend the dale now that Elminster's gone."
"That's a meeting we must have, too," Itharr said, looking up. "Whither now, for the three of us?"
"What have we to jaw about," Sharantyr asked with sudden fierceness as her fingers worked on his stiff shoulders with iron tenderness, "until we've dealt with the Malaugrym? Elminster gave us a task, and it's unfinished. Harpersand Knights of Myth Drannor don't walk away from their duty. Not now, not ever!"
When she caught Belkram's look of wonder, she blushed, turning her head away. "I'm sorry," Shar mumbled, her voice quavering for an instant. "I... his dying... I'm too upset to make sense."
"No, Lady," Belkram said, advancing to take one of her hands in his own. He knelt and kissed it in one smooth movement. "You make perfect sensenow, and always."
Sharantyr turned her head away again from the rising fire she saw in his eyes, and tried to blink away her sudden tears, tears that would not stop falling.
Uncaring crickets were chirping as the Bard of Shadowdale turned in at her arched gate. She brushed past its roses and stumbled in her weariness. Sylune drifted with silent grace at her shoulder.
The door ahead of them was open, and the lamps were lit. Storm sighed and reached for her blade again, wondering if she really felt up to another fight against some sinister Zhent intruder... then relaxed with a heavy sigh of relief when she saw the short and familiar figure of Lhaeo come out to greet them.
"Tea is made, Ladies," Elminster's scribe said in a small, forlorn voice.
"Oh, Lhaeo," Storm said, touched, and held out her arms to him.
A moment later, the last prince of Tethyr was weeping into her breast, clutching her as if she were his last anchor in a storm-racked sea. "El told me I'd know if he died," he gasped when he could speak again, "and yet I don't know! The touch of his mind is gone!" He burst into fresh tears, weeping uncontrollably.
Storm stood in the moonlight, holding him in silence. There was nothing she could say. Her silver hair bent over him as her own tears began to fall. They wept together, and the ghostly form of Sylune hovered over them both, her spectral hands reaching out to console ... in vain.
There was nothing at all she could do.
There's Alcuays Reoeuge
It was a bright morning in fair Shadowdale. The tower, the inn, and the streets were still buzzing with talk of the disappearance, a day and a night ago, of Adon and Midnight, the two prisoners convicted of the murder of Elminster of Shadowdale. Some said they'd been spirited away by agents of Zhentil Keep, lurking in the dale even now; others that they were archmages, foul fiends, or Bane and Manshoon themselves, who wore false shapes and escaped by magic as soon as they were bound in the dungeons. Shadowdale had lost its greatest protector, a wise old unclealbeit a cantankerous and mischievous uncleto just about everyone who'd lived in Shadowdale.
Nor was he the only man mourned in the dale. Many a family wept over sons or fathers who would come back only on a shield, to be buried by an honor guard led by the grim-faced lord of Shadowdale. No one could spare the time for full mourning rites or long nights of grieving, however; there was too much that had to be done.
Magic still spun wild in Faerun, and news of strife and god-caused devastation came to Shadowdale with every new, heavily armed caravan. The Zhentarim could strike again at any time, and Daggerdale was an open battlefield roamed by hungry wolves, ores, and worse. To keep such perils at bay, the few warriors still able to fight were standing guard on all four roads out of the dale, fervently hoping not to see blackhelms in the distance.
In the dale, dead Zhents and horses lay everywhere, some half devoured by bold night scavengers. The returned priests of Lathander were busily blessing the dead to ensure that they would not rise undead to stalk Shadowdale in the years to come. The old women of the dale were stripping the bodies of anything that could be used again, and the foresters surveyed the burnt woods with an eye to replanting.
Yestereve, six full carts piled high with weapons and helms had groaned up the road to the tower. The clangor of their being stockpiled had gone on all night, wherefore this morning Lord Mourngrym had a headache that felt as if someone were repeatedly stabbing a dagger through the top of his head.
"Why must I get up?" he asked Shaerl. "I'm lord of this dale. Can't I lie abed just once in a year?"
"You did," she replied sweetly, "three months back. We were trying for a daughter, remember?"
Mourngrym growled something wordless about her cheerfulness and rolled up to a sitting position on the edge of their bed. His arms and ribs were gold and purple with bruises, and two raw scars marked his forearm where Zhent blades had split through his best armor.
Shaerl hissed in sympathy as she traced one of those scars with a slim finger. She handed her lord a tankard of steaming bitterroot tea.
Mourngrym sipped it, made the same disgusted face he always did, and rose, handing the tankard back to her. "Hereyou drink the stuff. It should cure your confounded cheerfulness!"
He took from its peg the silken robe she'd made for him. As always, he admired the blazons she'd sewn so carefully. The arms of the dale shone on one breast, his own arms on the other, and a target prominently on the backtheir private joke: he'd been her target when Cormyr sent her to Shadowdale to gain influence here.
Mourngrym smiled at the robe in his arms, leaned against the smooth-carved corner post of the bed, and mouthed a silent prayer to Tymora. Swinging the robe around his shoulders, he made his way across the bedchamber.
He winced as each step made his head poundhe hadn't had that much to drink last night, surelybut doggedly pursued his goal: the curtained archway that led into the morning room. There he would break his fast on the great table whose glass top covered gloriously hued maps of the dales. He loved those maps, a wedding gift from the Rowanmantles, and peering at their exquisite details never failed to cheer him.
He shouldered through the curtains, sniffing the welcome aroma of sausages and melted cheese and eggs on bread, and froze midstride.
"Storm! Well met and welcome, but what are you doing sitting in the middle of the table?Oh, war council time again, is it?"
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled at him and tossed her head in greeting; her silver hair cascaded down one shoulder, and Mourngrym swallowed at her beauty, remembering the last time she'd sat on the table, wearing rather less, and the wild war council that had followed then. It was too early in the morning for all this... .
Eyeing the sausages on the platter beside Storm's boots, the lord of Shadowdale went to the long sideboard, took up a flask of firewine, and drained it at a single gulp.
When his eyes came back into focus, Storm was shaking her head. "You'll regret that, you know."
"My head already feels like a blacksmith's anvil," Mourngrym told her. "Is there any more of this stuff about, do you know?"
"End drawer down the window end," Storm and Shaerl said together, then broke into chuckles (Storm) and giggles (Shaerl) of mirth. Mourngrym gave them both a look of long-suffering disgust and went to the drawer indicated.
"It's too much," he told the Realms at large. "No man should have to deal with such cheery females. Haven't either of you heard of respectful silence?"
There was no reply. Mourngrym had taken the decanter back to the table, sipped from it without bothering with a flagon, and lifted his fork to deal with the sausages before the silence registered. He looked up into Storm's impish eyes, dancing with mirth as she regarded him, lips pressed tightly together. He shot a look along the table to Shaerl, who had seated herself with dignity and was regarding him, chin on hand, in equally amused silence.
Mourngrym opened his mouth to say something, but closed it again and shrugged. "That's certainly more peaceful," he told the first sausage as he raised it.
"Unhand that sausage!" a voice bellowed from somewhere very near.
Mourngrym choked, tried to spring up, arms flailing, and toppled sideways, gabbling for breath.
He and the chair met the flagstone floor with a solid, head-ringing crash amid an explosion of laughter. Mourngrym found himself then face to face with Rathan Thentraver.
The stout priest was crawling out from under the table. He winked, deftly plucked the sausage off Mourngrym's fork, bit into it, and said, "Umm. Very good! Thank you for offering me this excellent viand!"
"I am going to kill someone," Mourngrym announced calmly to the ceiling, "and probably soon. How long have you been under here?"
"Not long," Rathan rumbled cheerfully. He emerged. "How long do you plan to sleep in every morning? Not turning into a vampire, are you?"
"No," Mourngrym told him shortly, and rolled to his feet. "No fangs to you."
"Ah," Storm said, "that's better. I was afraid you were going to play the grim stone-headed tyrant all day." As she spoke, the wall gong chimed.
Mourngrym looked at it sourly and sat down again. "And what does that signify?"
" "Tis the signal that you've finished your morning feast, my lord," Shaerl said sweetly, "and that yet another Realms-shaking war council is about to begin."
"But I haven't fin" Mourngrym began. He snatched his platter to his chest just before Storm plucked it away. He brandished his fork at her. "Keep back, woman!"
There was laughter from the doorway. Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers stood there, staring delightedly into the room. "Now that's a sight worth walking here from Berdusk to see! We battle the Bard of Shadowdale with blades... but great lords use sausage forks on her!"
Mourngrym sighed, backed away to the sideboard, and set his plate down. Picking up a sausage, he pointed at the chairs ranged around the table and said, Tray enter, Lords, Ladies, and Gentles, and be seated. There, there, and there .. . ah, and I believe that seat's available too... very good." He glanced at the gathering: Knights, Storm, a swirling radiance by her shoulder that must be Sylune, the two Harper rangers, Shaerl, andwho was missing?
Elminster, of course, and Lhaeo... not surprising. He bit into the sausage thoughtfully. Ah!
"This room's too quiet by far," he announced grandly. "Where's Term?"
"I thought you'd never ask," the smooth voice of the thief replied from the doorway. "While you've been snoring, I've been working. Pretty soft being lord of a dale, isn't it?"
"You?" Mourngrym snorted, making a rude gesture with what was left of his sausage. "Working?"
"Indeed," Torm replied with dignity, "I have just returned from a dawn foraya bold and brazen foray, let me say, fraught with peril and shining braveryinto the road camp just south of Voonlar, looking for certain things our departed Zhentish friends may have left behind!"
"More women?" Merith asked slyly. "Torm, how many can one man have?"
"The answer, Sir Elf, would surprise you," Torm said loftily, "but that is a matter for converse at some more relaxed time. I speak of the Central Blade's pack train . .. sixteen wagons of it, at any rate."
"Thieving still?" Shaerl sighed. "Torm, in case you haven't noticed, there's a war on! Must you indulge in petty thievery?"
Term's eyebrows rose. " 'Petty thievery,' Lady? You wound me to the quick! What did you think your surviving troops would eat? And be paid with? Starving men"a dagger spun from his hand to transfix one of Mourngrym's sausages, and the thief jerked on the silken cord affixed to the hilt and snatched the food away from Mourngrym's hasty grab"who feel they've been cheated tend to make unsafe guardians, particularly when they're also well-trained warriors."
"Belt up, well-trained warrior," Florin suggested kindly as Torm reeled in a dusty sausage and bit into it with satisfaction. The ranger looked around the table to address them. "We're here to talk some things out and decide how best to proceed, given the perils abroad in the land and . .. our lack of Elminster." In the silence that followed, he added, "In the absence of the Old Mage, Sylune is the eldest here, and should speak first."
"My thanks, FlorinI think," the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale said dryly. "For my part, I have unfinished business Elminster set me to. Sister, will you hand my stone to Itharr of the Harpers? He is the only one of our Rangers Three who hasn't borne me yet."
"I will," Storm said gravely, drawing the chain from her neck and rising to carry the stone around the table.
"The Rangers Three? Sounds like a chartered adventuring band," Torm commented. Itharr took the stone carefully, a little awed. The thief added, "Or a traveling minstrel show."
Torm, dearest," Sharantyr said sweetly, "Tell me: do these idiocies just tumble out whenever you open your mouthor do you actually sit there and think them up?"
"Thinking?" Torm frowned at her. "Who said anything about thinking? Kill first, then loot... and the thinking part is that unpleasant shouting business at the end when it all has to be divided. It makes brains hurt."
"Mine certainly does," Mourngrym said with feeling, "but I believe Sylune still has the high tongue in this round of converse."
"For my part," Sylune responded, "there is no more to say. I am a thing of ghosts and shadows. My will is bound to duty."
Tes, but what would you like to do?"
"Find my sister the Simbul and beseech her to do as Elminster did," the Witch of Shadowdale said very quietly. "That is, make me a new body."
There was an embarrassed silence at the raw longing in her voice. Florin stepped into it by saying, "Next senior among us is my lady, Dove. What say you?"
Dove smiled at him and looked around the table. "My first dutyour first dutymust be to defend the folk of the Dales against brigands, Zhents, roving monsters, and the like. Otherwise, there'll be no crops, and starvation come winter. Time of Troubles or no, the work of daily life must go on. We have to find all the Zhents scrambling around the woods and deal with them, discover who or what else is lurking about to prey on our people, find and tend all the wounded, and rebuild what was ruined in the fighting."
"Well, that takes care of the council," Torm said lightly. "Let's be getting on with it. Mourngrym can make us all more sausagesI'm certainly hungry enoughand we can meet again when the snows fall."
"Rathan? Gag him, will you?" Illistyl snapped scornfully. "To think that I once bedded thatr
"Once? From what I recall, twi"
"Enough, Torm," Dove said firmly, "or have you forgotten the fish bucket?"
"The fish bucket?" Mourngrym asked, leaning forward with interest. "Is this some sort of torture device fine upstanding noble lords can use on annoying thieves?"
"After he made a particularly crude remark," Jhessail explained, "Dove held Torm's head under water in the bucket of live fish she was bringing to the tower for evenfeast.. . until he ran out of bubbles."
"Ah, that explains what happened to his wits," Merith said delightedly. "They got soaked through and grew mildew...."
"Gods in their palaces," Belkram said to Itharr in low tones, "are all their council meetings like this?"
"Oh, no, no," Storm assured him cheerfully. "Best manners this morn... because of you. Usually we just shout Torm down and get on, and no one speaks in turn."
"Strange you should mention that," Florin said with a smile, "as seniority brings us now to you."
"Aye, indeed," Storm said with a smile. "I concur with my sister Dove, but be aware that aside from Shar, Sylune, and my two Harpers here"Belkram and Itharr smiled around the table and swept mock bows"this assembly is just going to have to abandon chasing Malaugrym for the time being."
"Malaugrym?"
"The shapeshifters who attacked us in the tent, the night before the battle in Mistledale," Sharantyr explained.
"Those weren't doppelgangers?"
"No, something far worse."
"Oh... one of Mourngrym's speeches?"
"Stow it," Florin ordered with a grin and a sigh.
"Because some among us can't resist the urges to be clever, these little get-togethers are always so much fun."
"Hold hard," Shaerl said, leaning over the table with a frown. "Do I hear you rightly? Chasing Malaugrym? Are there a band of them?"
"A family, actually," Storm explained softly. "An ancient clan who kill those who know about themso guard your lips. For centuries Elminster has slain any of them who dared to enter the Realms."
"So with him gone . .."
"Chasing may no longer be necessary. They'll probably find us soon enough," Sharantyr observed.
"Is there any wayshort of magic that may go wild, and blow this tower apart, or cover us all in cow dung of knowing they're not here in this room, right now, taking the shape of one of us?" Torm asked sharply.
"No," Storm and Dove said in quiet unison.
"Well," Rathan joked, "You did come in late, Torm...."
"Oh, no, you don't," Torm said warningly. "No one's opening me up to see if I'm really a scaly monster!" There was suddenly a dagger in his fingertips, and he waved it meaningfully.
"You're safe, Torm," Jhessail said with a smile. "No one could impersonate that debonair manner, that outrageous tongue, that"
"Utter stupidity," fllistyl told the ceiling.
"As to the internal defense of the dale, and helping our folk set things to rights," Storm added, "journeyman Harpers will shortly gather in Shadowdale from all directions. To prevent the Zhents and... others from sneaking agents in among them, they all will report to Dove, who will cast a spell that marks them with a visible badge, a spell that contains nasty surprises for anyone trying to duplicate it. To get such a badge, of course, the Harpers will submit to mind-reading magic, allowing us to weed out ambitious Malaugrym." 
"So this band of confirmed Harpers helps rebuild the dale," Torm said, "freeing us to dowhat?"
"Ride patrol through the Elven Court woods, southeastern Daggerdale, and the other lands around Shadow-dale, scouring it of brigands and monsters, giving us warning of attack from Zhentil Keep, Daggerdale, or Hillsfar. I've heard rumors of fell beasts leaving the ruins of Myth Drannor to roam the woods, and even talk of some wealthy merchants in Sembia hiring small armies in hopes of seizing a dale or two as private estates."
"What?" Torm laughed. "Armies, yes... but ambitious Sembian merchants? Show me the fool who'd dare challenge the famous Knights of Myth Drannor!"
"Look in yon mirror," Jhessail advised him in dry tones, pointing across the morning room. "You challenge us all too often."
"Vile slander!" Torm said severely, waving a finger at her. "May the gods look down and"
"Gift thee with an egg, valiant Torm," Shaerl said. She swept a peppered plover egg up from Mourngrym's plate and thrust it whole into Torm's mouth.
"NnnmumpA," he protested.
"I agree completely," Rathan replied earnestly, patting the thief's hand (the one without the dagger). "Thy every word is as a pearl of wisdom, glistening among the dull pebbles of other oratory!"
"Oh, please" Illistyl said. "You're as bad as he is!"
Rathan gave her a hard look. "I prefer to say "as good as,' young miss'tis more charitable, far."
"If the free entertainment could subside for a moment," Merith said patiently, "perhaps we can hear the rest of Storm's plans."
Storm grinned at him. "We'll send two patrols equipped for long forays. The Knights will ride to Daggerdale; the Rangers Three with Sylune will circle Voonlar, the woods near Myth Drannor, and Mistledale. Both bands should make sure the Zhents haven't rallied anyone else in the south and deal with any trouble before it reaches our battle-riven dale. The dalefolk are too exhausted to deal with even sneak thieves."
"Fine, sounds sensible. Let's be doing it," Illisty! said, rising from the table. "I weary of talk. Merith, have you found me a horse?"
"What's wrong with your palfrey?" Mourngrym asked.
"Killed in the battle," Storm informed him curtly. Illistyl nodded, her eyes bright with sudden tears, but said nothing.
Across the table, Torm was in full flight again, leaning around Belkram to smile at Sharantyr.
"Good, my lady," the thief said with a leer, his eyes bright, "I could see my way clear to ably guard so beautiful a flower of the dale! Wouldst thou permit me to accompany thee on patrol?"
Sharantyr almost smiled. "I've grown used to Belkram and Itharr, thanks," she said crisply, taking the arms of the two Harper rangers seated on either side of her.
"I did not mean merely myself, Lady," Torm said, his manner suddenly serious. "Three blades and a disembodied voice isn't enough battle might for what you might well run into."
"Ill be going with them, Torm," Storm said quietly.
Heads turned in surprise all around the table, but the Bard of Shadowdale was looking at the three rangers. "If you'll have me?" she asked quietly.
"Right gladly, Lady," Belkram said, glancing quickly at his companions for confirmation, and receiving it.
A frown had come onto Mourngrym's face, "Torm may have a point about strength of arms. I was thinking of sending you Knights out on the first patrol east; there's word of a Zhent mageling rallying forty or more Zhen-tilar in the woods."
"I'll look forward to meeting them," Storm said in silken tones. More than one person around that council table shivered at the sound of the bard's voice. 
"Are we agreed?" Mourngrym asked, standing up and looking down the table. There was a general affirmative chorus, and he said briskly, "Goodnow get gone, all of you, so I can bathe and get dressed and have some fooxi that clever Knights don't snatch off my plate!"
Chuckles and mocking salutes answered him.
Mourngrym made for his bedchamber, shook his head, and reflectednot for the first timehow untenable a position he held, the junior member of a band of adventurers who handed him the lordship of a dale after they were finished with it, but stayed around to drive him witless!
Growling faintly at the thought, he pushed back through the curtains, Shaerl in his wake.
The morning room cleared quickly. When it was quite empty, something moved under the tablesomething that looked like old and dark wood, but flowed downward to the floor, peeling itself free of the table's underside. It stretched like a hungry snake, slithered out from under the furniture, and rose swiftly, taking on the shape and appearance of one of the tower servants.
The Malaugrym glanced quickly around, but no one was in sight. The servant who was not a servant paused for a long moment to survey the table admiringly. Ahorga had always liked maps.
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 22
The embers crackled and glowed ruby red. The two women sat with their backs to it, facing outward on watch, listening to the faint scuttlings and hootings that mark any forest by night. They were in the Elven Court woods, well south of Voonlar, most of the way through their first night on patrol.
Itharr and Belkram had turned over watch duties to them not long ago, and were well and truly asleep, snoring faintly into their cloaks.
"How many nights have you spent thus?" Sharantyr asked quietly.
Behind her, Storm laughed softly. "Hundreds."
The ghostly tresses of Sylune turned, from where her disembodied head floated at Sharantyr's shoulder. "Thousands, Sister," she corrected.
"That's rightemphasize how old we are," Storm said, amused. "I try not to make people feel uncomfortable or lessened in any way."
"I was the Witch of Shadowdale, remember? Making people wary of me was the best way to hold power over them without ever harming anyone," Sylune replied.
Sharantyr sighed. "You seem so carefree," she said, shifting the naked long sword that lay across her thighs so that moonlight caught it at one end, and a faint red glow from the fire touched the other. She flicked it idly, watching the play of light on the steel. "Is it because you've both seen it all before?"
"Partly, Shar," Storm replied, "and partly because we've learned to try to enjoy everything, from being whipped in chains as a slave to being wooed by well-endowed princes."
"To clinging to the spar of a ship breaking apart in a storm," Sylune put in, sounding amused. "To lying paralyzed under the probes of a drow mage trying to determine if your powers lie in organs he can remove, or if youll have to be bred to drow to give them your abilities."
Sharantyr shivered. "Don't speak of drow, please ..."
"My apologies, Shar," the ghostly head beside her said quickly. "We both spoke of moments from our own experiencesI forgot that you'd been a captive of the drow, too."
Sharantyr turned her head. "You were a slave?"
"For years," the Bard of Shadowdale told her. "Not entirely bad years, either... though I never did develop any enjoyment for being whipped."
"What do you mean, 'not entirely bad years'?" Shar asked incredulously. "How can you enjoy anything about being a slave?"
"That's what we were trying to say, you see," Sylune said softly. "It's not what the gods hand you in life that matters so much, nor what your strivings achieve or fail in the attempt. Whatever befalls, the best way to view life is to savor every moment of it, no matter how sordid or unpleasant... for one thing, the gods give us all only a certain span of time, and time wastedin misery, despair, drunkenness, or casual inattentionis time gone forever."
"I see what you're saying," Sharantyr said slowly, "but you'll forgive me if I take some time getting to enjoy fighting in great battles, or falling into cesspits, or listening to Torm."
Trying not to laugh aloud, Storm shook with deep, bubbling laughter for a long time before she found breath enough to speak again. "Well said," were her first words. "Do you feel like talking about what befell in the Castle of Shadows?"
Shar chuckled helplessly. "I-I suppose so. What do you want to know?"
"Do you recall Elminster's burning the bodies of the Malaugrym you slew, back at the ruined manor in Daggerdale?" Sylune asked.
Shar nodded, but realized they couldn't see the gesture in the dark, and said cautiously, "Yes."
"He wasn't simply being tidy," the ghostly figure told her. "He was using a spell that destroys the bodies of the recently dead even as it yields up their last few moments of thought. In one of the Malaugrym was a strong desire to slay youbecause another Malaugrym, who did not enter Faerun at the time, wanted you as his mate. Another of the dead Malaugrym was reluctant to attack you for the same reason; the Malaugrym who favored you was his ally."
Sharantyr drew a deep, shuddering breath. "I see. You're wondering if I pine after some Malaugrym lord, or perhaps even carry a little shapeshifter-to-be within."
"No," Storm said sharply. "Even if either or both of those conditions were true, they are your affairs. We merely meant that it's apparent to us all that some adventures befell all three of you that went beyond 'See Malaugrym, slay Malaugrym, run run run/ "
Shar giggled. "That sounds elegant."
"Indeed," Sylune agreed dryly. "So give, Lady Shar-antyr. What did you learn in the Castle of Shadows? And I don't mean about Malaugrym, or shapeshifting, or the nature of ever-shifting Shadowhome. I mean about yourself."
"About myself?"
"About Belkram and Itharr, then," Storm said gently. "How are my two half-trained Harpers?"
"Very good companions and able protectors. Belkram has a touch of Torm in him, I think."
Shar heard Storm's silent amusement at that observation, and went on, "Itharr is quieter, and there's a darkness in him. H-He needs to kill, sometimes."
"And how would you look upon spending several years adventuring with them both?" the lady bard asked. "Just the three of you, not a part of the Harpers or part of the Knights of Myth Drannor."
"I'd enjoy it, I hope," Shar replied, then added quickly, "but I fear the Shadowmasters will soon strike back, and"
"And?" Sylune asked quietly.
"And I'll lose one or both of them," Sharantyr said. Her voice sank almost to a whisper.
"You are fond of them both, then?" Storm asked quietly.
"Aye, I" Sharantyr's voice sharpened. "Why are you asking me this? Do you want me to shout from the tower turrets that I love them?"
"No, Shar," Sylune said softly. "We want you to admit it to yourself."
In the little silence that followed, Belkram snorted softly in his sleep, and at the comical sound something inside Sharantyr suddenly rose into her throat, and she wept as quietly as she could.
The radiance of Sylune was suddenly all around her, and she felt a gentle, chill touch on her forehead. The ghostly kiss left a tingling behind, and her somehow calmer.
She sniffed away the last of her tears, and said in a small voice, "I'm so afraid of losing them."
That's why I came along," Storm said softly, "to lend one more sword to the fray and make all of your chances for survival that much better."
"Malaugrym are everywhere!" Sylune intoned in tones of mock horror.
"Don't say that!" Sharantyr told her fiercely, turning her head to stare into eyes that were two serene white wraith fires.
"Why not? Face your fears as you should face everything else in lifeopenly. Name them, and they become things you can handle, after a fashion."
Sharantyr laughed, a little ruefully. "I didn't expect to spend my time staring into the night talking about my loves and fears," she told the two age-old sisters.
"Why not, Shar? What could we possibly talk about in all our livesthat's more important than what we love and fear?"
Sembia, Flamerule 22
"I love to smell their fear," the man with the head of a panther said, raising bloody jaws from a villager who would never again flee screaming from anything.
"Now how could I tell that?" replied the man whose arms split into tentacles. A choking merchant struggled in the coils of two of those tentacles.
The Malaugrym shook the merchant, much as a hunting cat shakes a rat in its jaws, and tightened his tentacles with lazy strength, tearing the man's head off. Blood sprayed in all directions as the corpse convulsed, wriggling in its final agony.
"Well? Are you going to eat this one?" Bralatar asked, his hands lengthening into talons to tear the man's body apart. He licked his lips in anticipation of the feast.
Lorgyn took one bite, then tossed the headless body aside. "No. I'll find something a little more succulent," He looked across the night-shrouded garden where they stood, at a building whose distinctive red lanterns marked it as a brothel. "In there."
"No wonder old Elminster wanted Faerun for himself!" Bralatar said, watching his comrade reach up with a small forest of tentacles and swarm up the side of the building. "It's a neverending love-feast and brawl!"
"Aye," Lorgyn called down, heedless of whose attention they might alert, "only better!"
A man's head suddenly appeared out of one window. "Hoy!" he snarled, "what'redoppelgangers! Call the Watc*
A tentacle descended in a slap that carried the weight of falling stone, breaking the man's neck as a child snaps a twig. He fell onto the sill, and said no more.
The Malaugrym's tentacles were busy at a higher window. He reached in to a bed where a fat merchant was rolling among slippery silk sheets, pretending he couldn't find the giggling owner of the bed, wriggling around beneath them.
"Not here!" the merchant hollered, clutching at a pillow. "Where's she gone? Oh, sweet merciful gods, help me... my partner'll be furious when he learns how much I spent for an hour of pleasure, and then couldn't find the wench for the size and opulence of her bed! Are there other men lost under here, I wonder? That wagon of mine that went missing last moon, perhaps? I'll just have to see! May"
"Oh, be silentr Lorgyn snarled in exasperation, snapping out a tentacle to wrap around the man's jaws.
The fat merchant suddenly grew a mouth as wide as a horse and caught the tentacle; an extra mouth appeared in his forehead and hissed, "Get your own plaything!"
Lorgyn recoiled in amazement. "Who?"
The grotesque mouth spat the tentacle back at Lorgyn and shrank away to nothingness, dwindling into features the Malaugrym at the window recognized. "Lunquar!"
"The same," the older Shadowmaster replied, ignoring the sudden terrified scream from the bedclothes beneath him. He pinned the woman down without sparing her a glance, and said, "I've been watching you two break necks and hurl bodies about for days now; why such a bold rampage?"
"Fun, Lunquar, fun!" Lorgyn said exultantly, using one long tentacle to snatch up the man whose neck he'd just broken and shake him as a trophy. "See?" There was a scream from the window below.
"That's just what I mean," the Shadowmaster on the bed said. "You left that one dangling half out of a window! Hear the screaming now!"
"So?"
"So why rouse half of Faerun when a little subtlety could win you thrones?"
"What fun is that?" the voice of Bralatar came floating up to them. "You can rule just as well through fear ... in fact, whenever we've the time to spare, we should spread a little more fear!"
"Your style, perhaps; not mine," the older Shadow-master replied. "I'm saving my fury for when I meet up with one of Mystra's Chosen!"
"Aye," Lorgyn agreed, his voice menacingly soft. His eyes glowed a sudden emerald green in the gloom. "If you want reasons for rampaging, there's always ... revenge."
177
Whistling, the WizoRd Mef His End
Sembia, Flamemle 23
Birds called and fluttered in a wood where moss grew green on old, proud trees, untouched by a woodsman's axe for three hundred years. A stone wall as high as six men kept errant axes out, for the wood was part of a private estate in the fair uplands of Sembiaan estate that saw few visitors, and even fewer uninvited ones.
Yet one can never be too careful, and trolls may lurk anywhere. So it was that the war dogs Warhorn and Bolder wandered the grounds diligently, carrying two hundred pounds of taut muscle each behind their spiked war collars. Their jaws closed often on squirrels, and they suffered nothing larger than that to liveexcept men they knew.
No man they knew smelled quite like the peculiar odor now in Warhorn's nostrils. The mighty war dog growled a deep warning to Bolder and advanced cautiously toward the smell, questing from side to side like a soldier.
Bolder caught up to him, stiffened, and rubbed his flank alongside Warhorn to signify he'd smelled the scent, too. They went forward soundlessly together on stiff, alert legs, lips drawn back to bare huge teeth.
The smell grew strong indeed, prickling in their throats. Of a sudden, they broke apart and rushed around either side of a great shadowtop tree, a forest giant big enough to hide four dogs behind. They went with eyes aflame and jaws agape, feet scrabbling on the mossy turfand vanished.
All that the listening birds heard was two wet snapping sounds, then a brief thudding, and shortly afterward, a rustling of leaves as something large climbed the forest giant.
"Never fear, never fear,
For my smiles are all for thee."
A man in a bloodied apron sang ere he struck the brass gong that hung by the door.
"So come away, lady fair, And we will married be!"
He set down the metal basin of meat scraps, wiped his hands on his hips, and waitedbut the expected hungry canines did not come.
The man struck the gong again. "Warhorn? Bolder? Gone deaf, have ye?"
The words had just left his lips when the two war dogs raced into view, running hard... and yet without their usual fluid grace... almost as if they weren't used to loping. The man stared hard at them for a moment. He crouched down and asked merrily, "So what have ye been into, my hearties? Highsummer mushrooms again?"
He leaned forward to pat Warhorn, and barely had time to notice a strange golden fire in the old dog's eyes before the tentacles took him. Snakelike they coiled up his patting arm and shook him, and he was still struggling for breath to shout when they broadened and slapped over his nose and mouth.
His frantic struggles were brief. His slayer rose slowly to an impossible height for a dog and held the dangling corpse upright. The other dog cocked its head for a moment, surveying the limp body. The canine form began to melt and flow, shifting slowly into an exact duplicate of the unfortunate servant.
Delicate tentacles undid the apron and held it out while Bralatar continued surveying the dead man critically, noting tiny scars, pimples, and precisely where hair grew. He shifted himself to match. He took the apron, careful to knot it as the man had worn it, and announced, "Done."
Lorgyn nodded and passed over the man's belt and ring of keys as he sank back down into dog shape atop the dead man. His tentacles coiled and squeezed, trembling with sudden effort.
When he was done, a bloody, boneless mass was all that was left of the servant. Tentacles dragged the gory thing behind the nearest tree and became digging claws. Soon all trace of the murder was gone.
Bralatar hummed the tune the man had been singing as he went to a wrought and fluted metal gate. One faithful war dog trotted at his heels.
In the small garden beyond, svelte nymphs and winged women of weathered stone posed in frozen wan-tonness among fountains and pools and floating lilies... and Dorgan Sundyl strode through them unseeing, bored to the depths of his being.
His muscles gleamed with oil and the vigor of this morning's workout, and his uniform shone back the sun. A bejewelled sword swung at his hip, and his movements had a lazy grace as one long-booted foot glided forward, followedas alwaysby the other, taking him around a grassy path that he'd walked a thousand thousand times before. He would dearly love something to fight.
Dorgan sometimes prayed to the gods to bring an intruder into the gardena man that he could bait a while before engaging him in furious swordplay, and subsequently slaying him and presenting him to the master. Even a little man would do.
He would have been surprised indeed to learn that the godsthe thoughtful godswere finally, this morn, about to grant his wish.
It took three keys before Bralatar found the one that opened the gateand by then, the magnificent-looking guard in the garden beyond was suspicious.
"How, now? What ails Areld?" Dorgan mused aloud as he strode toward the gate, hand going to sword and eyes flicking watchfully about to be sure that only one man stood there, not a concealed band of brigands.
Another thing... the dogs were never allowed in the garden! What was old Warhorn playing at?
"Areld?" he challenged, sword grating. "What befalls?"
Areld swayed, one hand on the opened gatebut fell, toppling forward into the grass without a sound. Dorgan raced to stand over him, blocking passage through the gate, looking warily around for an archer or anyone waiting to rush in ... but the woods beyond were empty of all but birds. Warhorn stood, patiently watching him.
Dorgan held the sword up between him and the dog, point out, just in case, and bent over Areld. "Are you sick, man? D"
Those were the last words he ever spoke. Something slammed into the small of his back and drove him into a sprawling fall onto the servant. Arms of flesh curved up to envelop his head, smothering him with ruthless efficiency.
Soon after, Dorgan and Areld carried a limp, pulped mass back out into the grounds, to the base of a certain tree where the turf was torn as if by a recent upheaval. "You should have dug a large pit," Areld said with dark humor. "I'm sure we'll be able to fill it if this mage is as suspicious minded as most. There'll be beasts and human guards every few paces ahead of us now to keep intruders from ever breathing the same air as Lord Magnificent the Spell-Hurler."
Retracing their steps, the guard and the servant passed through the garden, coming at last to the only way they could see into the castle: a stone door carved into the shape of a snarling human face, with two outstretched hands beneath it to serve as handles.
"Warded, or Fm a war dog," the man who was not Dorgan muttered. "I don't like the look of those hands."
"So we slide past," the one who was not Areld murmured, extending a ribbon-thin tentacle to point. "Heresee?"
It took some time to flatten themselves out into creeping things thin enough to slip through a tiny gap between the crumbling stone and the old, slowly warping doorframe, with its carvings of satyrs and bunches of grapes and flirtatious sprites, but they passed through without incident, and without being seen.
They stood in a high, vaulted hall whose open bronze doors showed another, loftier hall, with a gallery at its far end, and many doors opening off it here, there, and everywhere. To the left, and nearby (by the smell) was the kitchen; the location of other features they could only guess at.
Wherefore the two men dwindled hurriedly back into the shapes of the two war dogs and padded into the hall with apparent aimlessness, sniffing as they roamed. The doors they passed were closed, but a broad, red-carpeted spiral stair ascended at the far end of the hall, and up this they wenton the theory that most wizards like to look out loftily over the lands around.
Partway up its ascent, the stair paused at a sunny landing, and Bolder slunk over to the small forest of ferny plants there. He peered through, uttering a short whufto signal Warhorn that he'd found something of interest.
The two Malaugrym had retained their own eyes, far keener than those of a dog, and could readily see a small, slender, rather plain stone tower outside.
The tower was ringed by a moat over which tiny lightnings of amethyst hue flickered from time to time some warding magic, no doubt. The moat in turn was surrounded by a strip of lawn. Flagstone paths led to the edge of the moat, but there was no sign of any drawbridge, and the paths also ran in a great arc in both directions, around the tower and out of view, flanking the walls of a gigantic building... the one in which they stood.
"Rich indeed, this wizard," Bolder growled. "Look: this house goes all the way around."
Warhorn growled a wordless reply of exasperation. How long was it going to take to find a safe way out of this vast house, into the inner garden with the tower?
Not long at all, as it turned out. A two-headed panther, black and deadly, stalked into view on the circular lawn, and a door swung open as if it were expected. They saw a man, a goad in his hand, standing in the open door, and the great cat moved fluidly toward him.
"Feeding time for everyone," Bolder grunted. They turned away from the window to hurry down the stairs.
A little distance along the passage they saw two women carrying bundles of linen. The maids frowned at them but did nothing beyond exchanging the question: "What are the dogs doing in here, I wonder?"
Wagging their tails, the dogs passed on by, proceeding to a place where a momentary shift of a paw into a human hand opened doors that were not locked, skirted a strong smell of cat (they heard a questioning growl from the other side of a door they left closed), and found their way to the inner garden. No one shouted an alarm as the dogs pawed the door open and stepped out onto the lawn.
Strong magic tingled around them, and they looked this way and that in some haste. The lawn seemed deserted.
A huge, curved stone bench adorned the edge of the moat, and beyond it Bralatar saw what he was looking for: the top arc of an old, massive grating in the tower wall, moat water lapping into it. A privy chute.
"Come," he said. He headed straight across the lawn. On the edge of the moat he shifted shape to grow flippers and tentacles, and heard Lorgyn's snort of alarm behind him as the stone bench suddenly shuddered and rose, stretching out hammerlike arms. A golem!
By then Bralatar was in the inky water, and too busy to worry about guardians on land: what felt like large hungry eels with teeth like daggers were savaging him. He grew tentacles, thrust one down an unseen gullet, and expanded, tossing bony spines out and through his foe until the water turned a dull red and the biting went away. He served another eel with same tactic, and another. By then, massive stone arms were crashing down into the water, and Lorgyn was splashing frantically to keep clear of their strength.
Bralatar made an eel-thing of himself and wriggled through the grating, ignoring a few nips from another unseen moat dweller. The stone chute ahead of him was as slimy and noisome as he'd expected, but rose clear of the water straight away. He wormed up it hastily, becoming a snakelike ribbon as he went in case the wizard was thoroughor crazedenough to have traps partway up a dung chute.
Behind him, Lorgyn splashed around for a breath or two more before he was clear of the water. Bralatar spared him no attention, but spiraled steadily up the shaft, sending feelers ahead to probe for traps. Somewhere above them, someone was cheerfully whistling a very old bawdy tune.
He found nothing, but as his most cautiously questing tentacle rose a trifle up out of the privy seat to peer into the dark chamber beyond, a calm, soulless female voice said: "Turn back," and a radiance began to grow around the top of the shaft. The whistling broke off abruptly.
"Hurry!" Bralatar snapped, placing suckers on the stone around him and heaving hard. He catapulted up out of the shaft like some sort of flying squid, and thumped to the floor; he'd not yet begun to grow when a second thump heralded Lorgyn's arrival.
"Now who can that be?" an annoyed voice came to their ears through the chamber door. It sounded very near, and approaching. The mage was almost upon them!
Lorgyn laid a tentacle on Bralatar's shoulder and hissed, "Distract himthose two women in the green tapestry room at the brothel; unclad, holding hands, and amazed at somehow ending up here. .. ."
They shifted shapes with lightning speed, twisting, writhing, and arching like maddened thingsand were done, linking their slim fingers together and adopting amazed and fearful expressions just as the door opened by itself, and a balding, beak-nosed man peered in at them over a leveled wand.
"By the Seven Mysteries, who are you?" he gasped.
"Please, sir," the blonde woman breathed, entreaty in her green eyes, "where are we? What place is this?"
The wizard dragged his eyes up from the ivory curves of her bare body, swallowed, and blinked.
"You're in my towerthe Tower of Mortoth," he said gruffly. "Er, that's me." He took a step into the room. "Perhaps you've heard of me?"
The taller of the two women parted her raven tresses to display a figure fully as spectacular as her companion's, and husked, "Nay, Lord... but pray, tell us about yourself. Pleasing great men is our businessand our pleasure."
And as Mortoth goggled at her in astonishment, two tentacles appeared over the shoulder of the blonde maid and shot out with terrifying speed. One grasped the wand, twisted, and snatchedand it flew from the stumbling wizard's bruised fingers.
"Rivals!" the wizard snarled as he caught his balance. Blue-white bolts of force were already streaking from his fingers in a hasty burst of magic missiles.
Those missiles curved home, and he saw the two intruders flinch, but one had grown fleshy wings, and the other had dropped into catlike form, and they sprang at him before he could do anything else.
The room crashed and spun for Mortoth as heavy bodies slammed into him and bowled him over. Suddenly flesh was enveloping him. He struggled, trying to spit out something that was probing into his mouth, and failing.
Lorgyn, his eyes like two copper coins, catching the sun, encased the wizard's head and hands in folds of flesh, invading his mouth with a firm tentacle to keep him from speaking spells, and leaving him only small nose-hole for breathing.
"Do you want the portal right here?" he asked.
Bralatar shrugged. "Why not? We know a way into this room, and I don't want to risk wandering around among waiting spells and enchanted items and possible traps looking for a better place. Get the thing done first."
Lorgyn nodded. "The decision is wise." He held the wizard securely as Mortoth's struggles ceased and his body started to tremble.
Bralatar paced out the space he'd need and began the casting, moving slowly and carefully, his body half voluptuous maiden and half panther. White, cold fire that blazed but did not consume sprang up where he gestured, building into two open ringsboth about as far across inside as a man is tall; one horizontal and the other verticallinked by a webwork of complex lines and runes.
"Place him," he ordered. Lorgyn spun the helpless wizard deftly to a spot where Bralatar bound him about with the same cold fire before Lorgyn released the binding of flesh.
Mortoth blinked. He could suddenly see again and opened his mouth to shout a spell, but found himself staring into a pair of cold, uncaring eyes for just an instant before his vision vanished abruptly. The same white, endless fire that had taken it whirled into his mouth, and all he could do was hum....
Bralatar stepped back with a satisfied air, surveying the magical gate he'd created. The wizard hung spread-eagled and helpless in the upright circle; anyone stepping into the other circle, blazing just above the floor, would set foot in Shadowhome.
To use the other end to come to Faerun, a rival Shad-owmaster would have to stand in exactly the right spot in the Castle of Shadows, and utter the secret word Bralatar had bound the casting with. There was a small chance that one of the blood of Malaug might be standing near when the gate formedit did not become invisible until completebut in the spot he'd chosen, in a place as large as the Castle of Shadows, it was unlikely.
Necessary though it was if he and Lorgyn were ever to return home, Bralatar had no intention of testing his creation. Each use would drain the wizard of some of his life-energy, and they'd need another magic-wielding being to replace him. Most mortals could power the passage of only four beings before they died, the last life stolen from them to leave behind only shriveled husks.
It was a pity the senior Malaugrym never revealed the locations of the ancient gates in Faerun built or discovered by the early blood of Malaug. Worse still, neither he nor Lorgyn had the use of a scrying portal to search either Shadowhome or Faerun from afar. If there were gates enough and in the right places, they could have avoided this entire undertaking... and left important, bustling little Mortoth of Sembia in peace.
"At least we're putting this wizard to good use, not just slaying him and seizing his magic, as Lunquar did to all the Zhents he could find in the brothels of Sembia,"
Bralatar commented, watching cold fire race up and down Mortoth's motionless limbs.
"Lunquar's gathered a lot of magic, don't forget," Lorgyn reminded him.
"Yes, but the risk!"
The Great Foe is dead! What is to stop us ruling over all?"
"So why did Lunquar counsel us to subtlety?"
"It's his way. Lunquar's always been a fierce loner; he refused to work with Dhalgrave himself, once. He's as bad as Ahorga."
"The probable difference between them is that to get home, Lunquar's going to have to do what we haveor use our gate, at whatever price we setand old Ahorga can no doubt travel freely back and forth between Shadowhome and Faerun. He must know the old gates and the traps our kin set on them ages ago."
"Are there any gates known to our kin, that we've not trapped?"
Lorgyn shook his lovely blonde head. "Not so far as I know; the doing was deliberate and absolute, to prevent the use of all gates known to us by any being not familiar with our guard spells."
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 23
"And we intend to keep things that way," said Am-dramnar softly, staring through his hastily cast scrying portal. He'd only caught this utterance and the last few words of something about Ahorga, but it was clear which of the kin were involved: they'd found Bralatar and Lorgyn.
It had been sheer chance that he and Argast had passed through the little-used Hall of the Eyes to avoid the well-traveled Hathtor's Gallery. The gate had appeared right in front of them, lines of white fire drawing themselves in the air.
Amdramnar was fast with his magic, but he was more used to hurling slaying spells in haste than spinning a scrying portal at speed. It had taken some time to call up a view of the other end of the unfolding magic.
"So we know of four kin active in Faerun now: Ahorga and Lunquar, operating independently, and these two," Argast mused aloud. "Shall we place a slaying trap on their gate?"
"I think not," Amdramnar replied. "Given the right spell111 have find it in my libramswe can divine the trigger word Bralatar used in the casting. Then it can serve us as a route that Ahorga and the other elders don't know about, if we have to bring someone into Shadowhome undetected."
"A mate, for example," Argast said softly. "Your lady of the sword."
Amdramnar regarded him, unsmiling. "You seek a lady too, I know. With a world open to me, Sharantyr may not be my choice."
If the two Malaugrym who stood beside the scrying portal could have used it to look into each other's minds, they would have seen that Amdramnar burned with the need to have the mortal Sharantyrand no otherand that Argast had a deeper need. His mother had fled the Castle of Shadows long ago and successfully hid, somewhere in Faerun, from the seeking magic of the House of Malaug. She was then pregnant; Argast son of Halthor must have siblings now. If one could be befriended and manipulated, or bred with ... a new dynasty of Shadowmasters could rise to rule the shattered House of Malaug....
But it was very much a good thing that scrying portalsand most other magic, even wielded by kin couldn't pry at the thoughts of Malaugrym.
"Let us go to your chambers," Argast suggested. "I'll wait without while you prepare your spell, and we can return here without delay."
 
Amdramnar nodded. He passed a hand across the scrying portal; it rippled and was gone, leaving the Hall of the Eyes dark and apparently empty.
"I have little liking for hunting mage after mage for their magic," Lorgyn said carefully as they stood in the room with the helpless wizard floating between them, "but we should take steps to ensure that this one doesn't have an apprentice or three who'll find and free him."
"Hahif I know apprentices, more likely they'll slay and rob him, and take away all the magic they can." Bralatar replied.
Lorgyn looked thoughtful. "That brings to mind another thing," he said slowly, frowning. "There have always been rumors that Malaug left powerful magic hidden on Faerun before he came to Shadowhome. It was one of the reasons old Stannar grumbled so much about the prohibition on forays into Faerun. If we can find it..."
Bralatar lifted an eyebrow. "Is that why you ransacked Candlekeep?"
Lorgyn smiled faintly. "You know about that? Aye, but I found nothing there... not even in the minds of the eldest whitebeards. Are Malaug's writings truly lost, or forgottenor are they just hidden in some grasping wizard's tower?"
"Elminster's tower, of course," Bralatar said grimly. His eyes alight with a sudden dark fire. "And with Elminster destroyed..."
13 Oat of the Shadotos
Shadows roiled around them, sliding past in an endless murmur of green and gray motes, streaming between the massive stone pillars. Each pillar, some of the kin whispered, held an unfortunate Malaugrym, entombed alive as part of the cruel magics Malaug employed. These traitors thus kept the very foundations of the Castle of Shadows from being swept away by shadows.
Argast and Amdramnar both suspected those whispers held truth. There was something eerie about the Undercrypt. One felt the scrutiny of an unseen presence here. As the Malaugrym stood facing each other in the stream of ever-shifting shadows, they could feel it very strongly. Was the watcher all that was left of Malaug himself? If it was the First to Walk Shadows, he must be truly ancient... and he never broke silence or gave any sign that he knew what befell his descendants. Other Malaugrym believed the castle itself was sentient, that the Undercrypt was where it was most truly awake and aware.
"I am ready," Argast announced calmly, "but I have one question: how much greater is the risk to us, traveling to a place neither of us has actually been?"
"Oh, but we have," Amdramnar said with a smile. That's the beauty of it. Moreover, when we visited, I let fall a focus token there. The risk is vanishingly small."
 Argast frowned. "You say I have been to this place?"
"Yes. We stood in the sky hurling spells down at the Great Foe and the three rangers with him when they were encamped in a ruin, and"
"There? The ruin?"
"It's as good a place as any," Amdramnar said. "Close to places we've viewed, but in the wilderlands. We're not likely to be seen arriving, nor be swiftly called upon to shift shape or act at being something we're not until we choose to do so. Let us smell and feel Faerun first."
A faint smile crossed Argast's face. "Good points, all. Let us be going, then. I have waited a very long time for this."
"I, too," Amdramnar said, and reached out his hand to touch Argast's shoulder. He spoke a single word, there was a momentary falling, spinning sensation and they were suddenly standing in the long grass of upland Daggerdale, with the ruins of Irythkeep around them.
"See how easy it is?" Amdramnar said, shaking his head. "It seems incredible that all of our clan has been kept from this for centuries, for fear of one old man!"
A helmed head promptly bobbed into view above a section of crumbling wall, and a voice roared, "Enemy mages! Strikestrike to slay, for the greater glory of the Dead Dragons!"
The two Malaugrym exchanged startled looks, then ducked away in opposite directions as a ball of flame hissed through the air, divided into two smaller balls, and chased them.
"By the blood of Malaug, who've we stumbled into this time?" Amdramnar snarled, somersaulting over a jagged wall and falling down the steep drop-off beyond with a jolt that rattled his very teeth. A moment later, there was a flash and a ground-shaking roar. The fireball struck the wall and blew it apart; it promptly toppled, burst, and plummeted down on top of him.
The furious Malaugrym grew one long leg and leaptcrazily off-balancefrom under a huge pile of rubble that thudded into the turf where he'd lain a moment before.
He landed, rolled, and came up facing back where he'd been, in time to see a large war bird that must be Argast flap into view, rising sharply. A robed man who bore a gleaming staff stood on the edge of the drop-off. As Amdramnar hastily backed away, the man discharged the staff, spitting a beam of flame at Argast that scorched him all along one flank and startled him into a fall.
Another man took up a dramatic stance, a wand raised in his hand. He peppered Argast with magic missiles, sending him down to a hard landing on the rubble pile.
Argast got up shrieking in fury, but his Art was feeble. He could do little against wizards of power. He fled desperately downhill, changing shape into a large, bounding jackrabbit for greater speedand outrunning a web of crimson bolts from the staff.
Very soon Amdramnar fetched up beside Argast, his eyes blazing. "Somewhere quiet in the wilderlands? By the fist of Malaug, what're the cities like?"
"Someone else must have decided this ruin would be quiet and secluded, tooor they wouldn't be so eager to throw away powerful magic on two men they haven't even spoken to yet," Amdramnar said calmly. "Let's withdraw."
"There seems little point to it," Argast said grimly, pointing at another swarm of bright bolts headed their way: magic missiles, unavoidable and painful. "Who are the Dead Dragons, anyway? An adventuring band? Some of the Great Foe's apprentices, out for some fun?"
Amdramnar suddenly chuckled. "No, I think they're some sort of cult that were always bothering the Great Foe... idiots who worship skeletal undead dragons."
Argast gave him a disbelieving look, but gritted his teeth as the swarm of magic missiles struck home, hurling them both onto their backs in the grass. "Let's move out of sight," he said, sounding sick. That hurt." Keeping low, they crawled over a ridge and became two wolves, trotting in a wide circle around the ruin.
"Shall we go elsewhere?" Amdramnar asked.
"Revenge first," Argast said in iron tones. "No one should try to slay Malaugrym out of hand and get away with it!" They trotted on. "So what does worshiping un-dead dragons have to do with hurling spells at everyone you glimpse?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "They seize treasure to offer dragons," he said slowly. "Perhaps they thought we were thieves come to take it."
"They walk around heavily laden with killing magic all the timer
"Perhaps the Shadowmasters High were not such fools as we thought to ban entry into Faerun," Amdramnar said mildly.
"Bah! Bralatar and Lorgyn still liveand have done well here. If those two overconfident lackwits can thrive in Faerun, we certainly can!"
"Talking wolves?" A man's voice said from behind them. "Shapeshifters, more likely! "Ware a trap!"
Without bothering to look around, the two Malaugrym broke into a run. The fireball, when it came, exploded just above their heads.
Somewhere in the red, roaring inferno of the fireball's fringes, Argast fetched up very hard against a boulder and felt many things snap. He saw Amdramnar hurtle helplessly past, turning over and over in midair, so racked with pain that he was losing wolf form. Tentacles and a misshapen gray mass wobbled and thrashed the air just before he landed in a cloud of dust.
"A fireball!" snapped the first voice they'd heard. "They must know we're here! Attackr
As the two Malaugrym lay in pain among the smoldering grass, forty or more mages and warriors boiled up over a ridge ahead of them and raced past, to the place whence the fireball had come. The sounds of battle arose from thereabouts.
When Argast had fought down the pain and shifted shape into something resembling a long-limbed crocodile, he moved hastily away. He was just in time. A whirling cloud of flashing blades suddenly twinkled into being above the rocks where he'd lain, clanging and crashing off stonethen turned into slowly drifting white butterflies. Not far away, they heard someone curse all gods and wild magic.
Amdramnar managed to slither to where Argast lay panting. "What befalls?" he hissed.
"The dragon idiots were waiting for these others, and thought the fireball cast at us was an attack meant for them. They rushed the ambush they were planning and are attacking here and now. Who these others are is yet beyond me; you're supposed to be the expert on Faerun!"
Amdramnar winced. "Truly said. Let's try to work our way over to the ruins. From that higher ground we can look back at the fighting."
"And get attacked by all the dragon worshipers who aren't quite so eager to get killed as these here are," Argast said sourly. "I await the experience with eager glee."
"Ah, be easy! Magic's starting going wild here anywaysee those blades turn to butterflies?"
"I'm not overwhelmed with joy," Argast said coldly, "at the prospect of starting my exploration of Faerun as a butterfly! Or as anything else twisted or shackled by sorcery, strange as it may seem!"
"I'll admit my idea of coming to Irythkeep has turned out badly," Amdramnar replied quietly, "but we've seen a wand and a staff in use already, and magic is a large part of what we came here for. Why flee from it now that we know what we face? Why, they're busy battling each other!"
As he spoke, lightning cracked into the sky, split apart into three bolts with a spectacular crash, and leapt to earth, one striking quite close. Their hair rose, and their bodies tingled.
Argast said dryly, "That's why. Have you experienced enough yet? Can we go somewhere safer?"
"The ruins," Amdramnar insisted, "where we first appearedif these Cult of the Dragon fools were preparing an ambush, they must be camped there. It's the only landmark in this stretch of country; the people they're fighting must have been planning to camp there, or at least use it to keep on the route they intended, and pass close by."
"What shapes do you suggest we take? Fireballs, so we can pass unnoticed, perhaps?" The sarcasm in Argast's tone was venomous; it was clear he suspected Amdramnar of having deliberately sent him into danger.
"Trust me, Argast," Amdramnar said firmly. "This fray was not of my doing. I've been hurt as badly as you. We'll both be spending some time healing. We'll need a large blood meal as fuel for it, too."
"What if we bite unknowing into a wizard and trigger nasty contingency spells?" Argast said warily. "What then?"
"We're a long way out in the uplands; they probably all came here on horses," Amdramnar replied patiently. "Now let's move... looking like horses ourselves might not be a bad idea. Someone might try to catch a horse, but they're hardly likely to waste a fireball killing it!"
"Now you speak wisely," Argast said, beginning the shift into equine form. Amdramnar sighed in relief and did likewise. He had begun to fear there was some sort of curse afflicting this foray into Faerun.
They trotted in a very wide route, keeping to easy ground and almost out of sight of the ruined keep to be sure of avoiding the attention of anyone who might have a spell to hurl. They approached the ruins in the lee of a stand of trees, and made their hooves soft and pliable to keep as silent as possible. When they were near enough to hear voices and see men moving, they began to graze, drifting slowly around into view, hoping they'd be taken for mounts belonging to the camp.
"We'll take losses now, for sure," someone was grumbling. "How could they have seen us from so far off?"
"Mayhap they did not," a deeper voice replied.
"Mages don't waste fireballs on nothing, or throw them across grassland at a whim! That's sheer foolishness!"
"I've known some wizards whom the mantle of 'fool' would fit right well," the deep voice responded.
"Don't let Chaladar hear you say that! Some of the dragons like to chase and eat human warriors who put up a fight, you know!"
"Aye, I do know," the deep voice replied calmly. "Why do you think we asked you along?"
"What? How can you bedid Chaladar tell yoh, gods! My horse ... all unsaddled... sweet Tymora, aid me now!"
"That's not a very judicious prayer for a faithful follower of the Scaly Way, wouldn't you say, Malarnus?"
"Quit baiting the lad, Ornthar... you'll have him running into things and shrieking in a breath or two! Sit down, Felus! He was merely jesting with you!"
"Now what have you done with your wand, boy?" Ornthar growled. "Dropped it, no doubt, while running around like a man who can't find the privy seat and babbling to Lady Luck!"
The Malaugrym exchanged a look and moved closer.
"Here it is!"
"That's my wand, idiot!" Malarnus told him. "Where did you walk, Felus, and where've you been sitting? Go back to all those places and look for it, andthere!" There came a thud and a groan. Malarnus added sarcastically, "See how easy it is to find things when you trip over them?"
"Dolt!" Ornthar added helpfully.
 Amdramnar took a step nearer and had a sudden idea. He began to shift shape, turning into a scorched-looking man, hairless and blackened, clothes hanging in tatters. When he was done, he turned to Argast and gestured for him to do the same. Argast gave him a doubtful look for a moment, but complied.
Amdramnar gestured to Argast to follow. He staggered around the last few trees and right into the camp.
"By the Dragon! Keep back!" a scarred veteran in half armor said, raising a wand in one hand and holding a blade in the other. Ornthar, no doubt. Seated on either side of him were an anxious youth and a sleek man with a spade beard. Felus and Malarnus.
"I-I... help us," Amdramnar gasped, staggering a pace closer. "Fireball..."
"Who are you?"
"Followers ... we were to meet Chaladar here," Amdramnar husked. "All dead now but us...."
"Felus," the seated man rapped, "get them some water." Malarnus indeed, by his voice. How generous.
Amdramnar staggered right over to the lad as he reached for a saddle skin, and Argast followed. Ornthar kept his eyes and his wand trained on them all the time. Malaug*s curse on all well-trained warriors, Amdramnar thought, and worked magic that called forth fire.
Flames flared up right behind Malarnus, who heard the hiss and crackle, looked around with a frown, and jumped up with an oath. "Fire! Magic!" He spun around, eyes narrowing. "There's none here but y"
He was, of course, too late. A tentacle whipped lash-like around his throat, jerked, and broke his neck. He joined Felus and Ornthar, who'd been distracted for one fatal moment by Malarnus's shout. All three lay broken on the ground.
"Take anything that looks magical," Amdramnar said. "We can discard things later. We'll ride two of their horses."
"And eat them later, too," Argast agreed, bending to the work of feverishly examining the camp.
They found three wands and an old cup... and that was all. If this Cult of the Dragon band carried heavy magic, it was in use beyond the ridge, where green smoke was drifting and the bright flashes of spells could still be seen.
Figures ran toward the ruined keep, now! Three... more ... a dozen, but still small distant dots. Time to be gone.
"Come," Amdramnar snapped. He turned toward the nearest horse.
Argast hesitated for a moment, looking as if he was about to refuse and go his own way. Then he. peered back at the running men, shrugged, and followed.
Amdramnar frowned, and was not gentle with his horse.
"I'd guess he's taken with some scrying spell and we won't see him until dusk," the younger and louder of the two men said.
"Peering at wenches in the brothels of Ordulin, most likely," the older man grunted. He ran a finger down the script in a thick and dusty book.
"Turnold!" the third apprentice in the library said sharply. She scowled. "You know I don't like to hear talk like that!"
The older man sighed. He replied without bothering to look up from his book, "You've got to learn about human nature and the ways of the world sometime, Irendue. You must notice how he looks at you."
That's a private matter between the master and myself," was the even sharper response, "and no concern of yours!"
"Oh, I'm not concerned," Turnold said easily. "If I were in your place I would be, but he's not interested in me."
"For your information, Master Prentice Turnold, he's not interested in me in the manner you so crudely allude to, either!"
"Oh? And just when I thought I'd got right the scrying spell the master taught me ten years ago! I particularly like the black-and-gold gown, by the way...."
"You worm!" Irendue shrieked, leaping to her feet, her face white to the lips. "You utter... spying snake!"
"Oh, I was following the master's instructions ... as was Lareth here. The master told us we might learn something...."
The door banged furiously as Irendue left, and Lareth, who'd blushed as red as his scarlet robe, coughed uneasily. "You shouldn't bait her like that. You know she'll just run to the master and there'll be trouble."
"We have to pay for our training," Turnold said calmly, "and pay dearly. She pays in another way. I don't mind that; I'd just like her to be honest about it and not play the prim and prissy high lady with us."
"Why should she be honest?" Lareth asked, amused. "She's training to be a mage, not a hermit priest!"
"I could probably tell you things about hermit priests," Turnold replied calmly, turning a page.
"My, you have been busy with that scrying spell," Lareth returned. He held the grimoire he'd been frowning at under Turnold's nose and pointed at a notation in one margin of a battle spell. "Oparl's hand, do you think?"
Turnold shook his head. "Too spidery. Jamryth's, for a gold lion."
"I'll not wager with you, Turnold," Lareth said ruefully. "You're too often right!"
"That has always been my trouble," Turnold agreed calmly, eyes on his own book again.
"Thirsty work, this," Lareth said. He set down his book and flipping its spine ribbon to mark the page with Jamryth's notes. "I'm for a flagon. Join me?"
"Plenty of time left to get drunk today," Turnold replied. "I'll be along later."
"Right," Lareth said with a grin, and swept out.
Only a moment later, he added a scream.
By the time Turnold got out into the passage, wand in hand, Lareth had joined Irendueand the master! in a web of cold white fire that seemed to fill the privy chamber. Two women he'd never seen beforeno, men wearing the faces of wencheswere standing in the passage facing him, with wide and ruthless smiles on their faces.
As he swept the wand up, Turnold felt the horrible strength of the tentacles that were falling on him from all around the door frame... tentacles that trailed back along the floor to join up with the men-women's bodies!
The wand was slapped from his hand, but a horrified Turnold scarcely noticed. He was trying desperately to scream, but discovering, as tentacles crowded into his mouth and slid coldly up his nostrils, that it was much too late....
Daggerdale, Flamerule 23
"I begin to think Lunquar's approach is the right one," Argast said as his exhausted horse collapsed under him. "Hide as much as possible. Keep to crow shape and the like, take human form only when another shape will win suspicion. Lie low and learn."
"Well have to lie low for a bit to heal fully," Amdram-nar grunted. "Kill these now and eat?"
"Why not? They're too weak to be of any other use!"
The Malaugrym had ridden across half Daggerdale without a break; Argast's mount had collapsed on a steep slope in the rolling hills of the southeastern dale, hard by the woods that stretched to Shadowdale.
"I think the most important thing is to hide ourselves from the common folk," Amdramnar said slowly. "They seem very swift to call on adventurers when they see something amiss, and this world does have crude shapeshifters, .. ."
"Doppelgangers, yes, I remember all the tales about how Malaug must have bedded one and thus given us the power."
"It matters little now. I just want to hunt down this Sharantyr woman and the two men who came to Shad-owhome with her."
"And kill them, slowly and painfully?" "The two men, yes. The woman's fate depends on what she agrees to...."
Argast shook his head and mouthed the words: then I'll kill her. He was careful to turn his head so that Amdramnar had no chance to see his lips.
Then he felt a tentacle brush his leg. He was about to strike it away angrily when he saw that Amdramnar was sinking down into the shape of a horse, and lying as if dead in the grass ... and that his lone tentacle was pointing urgently across the valley.
Argast crouched down. He had already begun to take horse shape when he saw them: a dozen or so men and women in drab leather armor. Dirt-caked weapons hung in their hands, and they crept cautiously through the trees. A patrol.
Someone's patrol, Argast made himself as much like the real horse beside him as possible and lay still.
It seemed a very long time before a voice said, low-pitched and near, "They're still warm... this one, at least, still lives. Ridden to death."
"So their riders must be close by ... hiding from us, no doubt."
"Zhent troops, for a gold lion."
"That's a wager I'll never take, Yheldon. If we find them and they have arrows, we'll end up just as dead as the mighty Elminsterand the Zhentsll be picking the gold coins out of both our purses!"
Argast twitched in excitement. The Great Foe dead!
It was dark before the two Malaugrym dared move again, coming up to clutch each other and hiss excitedly, "Elminster, dead!"
"We must confirm this," Amdramnar muttered. "I've heard tell men have thought him dead many times before."
"Of course," Argast agreed, "but if it be true, we can hunt freely!"
"Don't forget that woman back at the keep who turned our kin to mushrooms and slaughtered us like cattle! He's not the only one in Faerun we must beware of."
"Aye, but he was the one who watched and waited for us. Moreover, with magic gone wild and gods walking Faerun and everything in confusion...*
"You're right," Amdramnar acknowledged with a sigh, turning to look east.
"You sound disappointed that he's dead."
"I am, a little. I was dreading having to face him... but to strike him down myself! The honor of our house demands it! Someone has robbed me of the chance to fell the Great Foe." Amdramnar shook his head, and chuckled. "With Elminster gone, whatever will the elder kin blame their failures on now, I wonder?"
"They'll find something," Argast said. "They always do. I think skill at finding targets for blame is part of the wisdom of being an elder."
Near the Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 24
"There's a large party on the road south of the Stone," Sharantyr said. She leapt lightly down from the lowest bough of the tree. The others were already loosening weapons in sheaths and taking up their gauntlets.
 "Did you see lots of armor?" Belkram asked eagerly.
Sharantyr shook her head as she unlooped the reins of her mount. "No, bold warrior. I saw horses, men's heads above them, and dust. At least twenty horses, and probably more." She vaulted into the saddle and looked to Storm.
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled. "It's always good to have a look at the Stone before one rides there. It avoids a lot of surprises."
"Could it be another Zhent army?" Itharr asked as they guided their horses cautiously around roots, down mossy banks, and out onto the Hillsfar road.
Storm frowned. "Blackhelms riding openly, no. Some of our people"they knew she meant the Harpers "would have brought me word of any such force gathering or on the move through Sembia. Zhent agents could well have sponsored some hireswordsbut on the other hand, were I an honest merchant in times as troubled as these, I'd travel in a large band with plenty of bought blades to defend me, too." A faint smile crossed her face, and she added, "So, as usual, we'd best be ready for anything."
They rode in wary silence past the ancient Standing Stone, seeing the glitter of steel in the forefront of the travelers coming north toward them. It was soon evident that the front rank consisted of five hard-eyed mercenaries with ready crossbows and full armor. They came on without stopping, loading and leveling their bows as they saw the armed rangers.
At the sight of those preparations, Storm said, "Stay well back, all of you. With magic unreliable, I can't protect you against crossbow bolts."
Itharr made a small sound of protest, but Sylune's soft voice said, "Heed her. Your death can be avoided this time if you act wisely, so why not avoid it?"
In the silence that followed, they watched Storm ride to meet the oncoming band.
"Stand aside, brigand," one of the hireswords ordered shortly.
"Surrender your names and business to me, mercenary," Storm replied calmly, unmoving. "Stand aside, I said!"
"Is anyone in this mounted assembly of a more reasonable mind?" Storm asked mildly. "Most travelers on these roads are well aware that the Knights of Myth Drannor patrol here; if your business is lawful, our encounter may be brief and pleasant. , . but an exchange of information is expected."
A crossbow snapped, and a quarrel flew. Belkram growled and made to launch his mount forward, sword flashing out.
At his ear, Sylune" said in a voice of iron, "Stand and watch! You may even learn ..."
Storm calmly plucked the crossbow bolt from her breast, examined it critically, and held it out, looking at the gaping man who'd fired it. "Yours, I believe?"
"Who are you?" another of the mercenaries snapped, face pale and voice sharp with alarm,
"Ah," Storm replied pleasantly, "the words you should have spoken first. I am Storm Silverhand, Bard of Shadowdale, and am accompanying a road patrol ordered by Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale and the Knights of Myth Drannor to keep peace on the roads in these perilous times. Again, I ask you your names and business."
She tossed the crossbow bolt, underhanded, back to the man who'd fired it. He juggled it but dropped it to the road, and started to dismount.
"What's the delay here?" a man in rich robes called, urging his mount forward.
A man in a yellow cloak, who rode behind the mercenaries, answered, "Some sort of road patrol asking our business."
"Ignore them; we're in a hurry."
"A hurry to go where, goodsir?" Storm asked quietly.
"Ride her down!" the man ordered the mercenaries curtly. Seeing one of his men out of his saddle, he shouted, "You heard me! Get up and get on!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries said, "this w"
"I'll hear none of it! Onward!"
"Hireswords," Storm asked quietly, "is this most audible man your master?"
A smile flickered on more than one face along the line of armored warriors before one said, "Aye, Lady. Rethuld of Saerloon."
"Thank you, good warrior," Storm said politely. She raised her voice. "Rethuld! I would speak with you!"
"But 7," the man spat contemptuously, "would not speak with you! Anyone blocking the high road is a brigand, and I slay brigands, not bandy words with them!"
"By the treaty of the Stone in whose shadow we stand," Storm said quietly, "any dale lord is empowered to send patrols out on the roadsand all travelers on the road are bound to obey such patrols and surrender to their queries and examinations."
"That treaty is centuries old! We pay no attention to it in Sembia!"
"Old it may be," Storm replied calmly, "but I was there at its making, and I was also present not so long ago as all that, when the young land of Sembia in turn signed it to gain trade access to the Moonsea North and grow to its present wealth. You would do well to pay continued attention to it if you are a merchant of Sembia. Treaties ignored may be revokedand with the roads closed, what are the prospects for your wealth then?"
"You said the dales were unprotected," the man in the yellow cloak said to Rethuld, frowning. "You said we'd be able to"
"Silence! I am not prepared to discuss our private business dealings on the high road! We can speak of this laterif there is to be a later for you, Jasten!"
"I think," Storm said quietly, "this has gone far enough. I've no wish to see blood spilled this day, so I think we'll have a little truth here." She made a gesture.
Another crossbow bolt hummed past her, but missed, and Storm completed her spell. She looked slowly around at the row of mercenaries and the half a dozen merchants crowded behind them. There were wagons beyond, with a dozen or more additional mercenaries flanking them... and presumably a rearguard. "If there's no harmful intent in this man's replies, you'll all be free to proceedbut I will look unfavorably on men who try to slip past me, or offer violence to me, before I am done. That means you, sir, trying to stay unseen in the trees .. . come out where I can see you!"
A man shouldered sullenly out through the brush, astonishment on his face and a sword in his hand. "Whowhat are you, Lady?" he demanded.
"I am Storm Silverhand. Do you believe nothing in Sembia of the tales of Those Who Harp, or of the Seven Sisters? Or do you dismiss them as idle fancies and turn back to the hard, grasping work of stacking coins ever higher?"
"Minstrels tell many wild tales of the barbaric back-lands of Faerun," a fat merchant snapped from behind the line of mercenaries. "If we believed them all, we'd not dare leave our bedchambers for fear of flying dragons and dark elves in the streets and Red Wizards behind every tree!"
"Tell me," Storm asked, widening her eyes, "is your bedchamber tastefully furnished?"
"What?"
"If, as you say, you spend so much time there..."
There were chuckles from the men around, and the fat merchant sputtered in anger. "Ikill her!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries replied, not turning to take his eyes off Storm, "I don't think that's possible. Not for us. Let's just hear her out, andgods willing we can proceed."
Storm gave him a dazzling smile. "Thank you, good-sir. It is always a pleasure to know one is in the presence of patience and good sense."
Then she turned to Rethuld, who sat silent and pale, beads of sweat suddenly thick on his forehead, and said gently, "While my spell lasts, you will be able to answer direct questions only with the truth. I ask you now: for what purpose was this band formed?"
Rethuld licked his lips, and his face contorted for an instant before he said, "To gain property in the Dale-lands."
"Why?" Storm asked, "and why now?"
"Sembia grows unsafe... without watch spells, thieves and brigands are free to loot, kidnap, and slay as they like. I gathered men whose business, like mine, can be run from any locale, and we came north to find a better place to bide until the strife be over."
"How did you plan to find this 'better place'?"
Rethuld looked around helplessly, sweating, and said, "S-Search, until we came upon one to our liking."
"And what sort of place would be to your liking?"
"A stout keep or defensible manor." The words came out of Rethuld reluctantly, as if he were fighting hard not to utter them.
"Such places are seldom deserted," Storm said mildly. "I can think of only four that stand empty at present, and those are isolated ruins infested by monstersextremely primitive and dangerous accommodations. How were you planning to take possession of a suitable place?"
"I-I..." Rethuld looked trapped, his eyes darting wildly from side to side, his lips trembling. When he spoke again, his voice was low and despairing. "Ah seize it by force of arms."
There was a sigh of resignation from the men all around, and swords grated out, but Storm sat still in her saddle and said calmly, "I thought so. Tell me; was the idea your own?"
"Ah, no, Lady," Rethuld said, his voice rising to a sudden, desperate squeal, " 'twas brought to me by another."
"And the name of?"
Rethuld sobbed suddenly; a blade that seemed to be made of bone protruded from his chest. He shook, mouth working, looked down at the bloody point in horror, and slumped over. The bone slid out of him from behind.
"I thought so," Storm said calmly, ignoring the blades that were slashing through her. "Malaugrym."
The man behind Rethuld suddenly writhed and dwindledand a falcon sprang into the air, leaving an empty saddle behind. The bird darted south.
The blades were passing through the B.ard of Shadowdale as if her body was made of smoke. She said to the men wielding them, "Submit to the others who patrol with me, and you shall have peace," but the fearful hacking continued unabated as the stone she wore between her breasts flashed with sudden blue fire. She rose from her own saddle and flew after the falcon, still in her own form.
"Gods," Belkram said as they ranged their mounts across the road to meet the oncoming mercenaries, "how can she take so many wounds?"
"She wears a gorget that protects her with ironguard magic," Sylune replied. "Metal weapons pass through her as if she were ... as insubstantial as I."
Lightnings blazed out from her, and mercenaries cried out, reeling in the shadows and dropping their weapons.
"You heard the Bard of Shadowdale," Sharantyr cried, standing up in her saddle. "Turn back to Essem-bra, in peace!"
As they stared at her, the ghostly head of Sylune drifted forward, its pale glow reflected back from swords and armor all around. She added briskly, "Bat-tledale holds manors in plenty left empty by the Zhents. I'm sure their rightful owners would be happy
to sell them to you. Those who are adamant in their determination to press on will, before this day is put, find themselves sharing a grave with me."
That was all the Sembian band needed to see and hear. They wheeled their mounts in hasty terror and fled from the ghostly female head that flew toward them trailing long, silvery hair. They galloped south as fast as they could, leaving their wagons behind.
Belkram laughed aloud. "That was the easiest fight I've ever been in!"
Sylune turned. "Be not so quick to laugh; your work is just beginning."
"It is?"
"These wagons must be taken up the Stone, turned around there, and driven back to their owners, wherever they may flee to. I'll fly ahead to Essembra to get us enough drovers."
"Flying around like that? They'll flee just like all these hardened warriors here did!" Itharr protested.
"Not the Harpers," Sylune replied without turning. "The wagons, gentlesirs," She flew away down the road like an arrow shot from a bow.
Belkram sighed. "Why do we always get the sweat work, eh?"
"You're Harpers," Sharantyr reminded him sweetly. "Such unpleasantness provides meaning and purpose in your lives." Itharr shot her a grin, and she added, "You should be grateful: many folk never find meaning or purpose in their existence."
"Huh," Belkram grunted, climbing up onto the boards of the foremost wagon. "Why can't they all come and do this for us, then?"
14
High Eoenf east at Loco Ryth&yn
The falcon winged frantically southward, trailing feathers in reckless haste as no real falcon would dare doand growing new ones as no real falcon could hope to do.
Storm followed in its wake. Her fly spell thrust her steadily on through the air. She kept low above the trees so she might survive her tumble to the ground when the magic failed or went wild, and to make sure the falcon could not veer off or descend suddenly without her seeing just where it went.
The falcon's flight was southeast over the forest until Essembra lay on their right. Once past the town, it heeled westward, passing south across the road to Sem-bia and the outlying farms of Battledale, heading for the distant silver ribbon of the fast-flowing Ashaba, where it left the Pool of Yeven. Long before it got there, the falcon turned north again, flew a little way, and dived suddenly to earth.
Storm hurriedly swerved behind a tree to avoid being seen; as she'd expected, the shapeshifter halted its descent to skim along the stone walls of an estate, and peered into the trees all around as it went.
The falcon completed its circuit of the walls. Apparently satisfied he was alone, the Malaugrym sank down beyond the wall.
Storm hastily flew nearer, working her way through the trees; she wanted to be inside the walls too, when her spell ran out. Even if this turned out to be a garden of deadly Malaugrym.
Beyond the wall was a cluster of towers, one of the many walled villas that rich Sembians and wizards had built for themselves. They were enclosed for safety against the monsters and brigands that roamed these lush wilderlands. The road past the gate would be one of the long, winding lanes that fed into Rauthauvyr's Road just north of Blackfeather Bridge.
She dare not tarry or work her way along the wall to avoid detection; her spell would run out in moments. Darting over the wall, Storm found herself over deserted gardens and a small ornamental pond. She turned sharply to keep herself over dry land, and dived hastily down, righting herself to land feet first. It was good she did. She was well above the turf when her magic gave out, and she fell precipitously to earth.
"Once more to embrace the soft lips and bruising talons of adventure, friends," she murmured to herself, quoting a ballad she had written hundreds of summers ago. She got up and dusted herself off
The placid waters of a small garden pool showed her a rather fierce-looking lady in leathers, so she stripped off her clothes and sword, bundled them up together, and said a soft word over them.
They vanished obedientlyat least that small magic had worked right; now for the next one. She checked that she still had the dagger in its sheath under her hair, at the back of her gorget band. These days, a lady never knew when she'd need a good sharp knife. The gorget itself, stuffed with coins, bore a chased design that was elegant enough to accompany the attire she planned. To it, then ...
Standing nude above the pool, she worked a magic she'd not used in quite this way for years, creating an ornate off-the-shoulder gown that would pass muster in the most exclusive circles in Sembia, and elegant high sandals to go with it. Her silver hair would do as she bid it, so she gave herself a sleek fall of tresses over one shoulder, and an elaborate braid over her brow. 'Twould do, indeed.
Taking a last look around to mark the place she'd left her gear, Storm strolled languidly across the gardens, eyes missing little despite her relaxed manner. She spotted the spatters of fresh blood beside a stone bench in a little bower, about where the falcon had landed, and wondered which inhabitant of the household was now a broken, unrecognizable boneless thing hastily buried nearby.
The Malaugrym awaited her somewhere inside these walls, all right. Storm strolled ahead as if no such peril was near, enjoying the gardens. A winding path girt with fragrant flowers took her to two small bridges that hopped from islet to islet across the large pond, to a terrace where stone urns stood in floral ranks along low, scalloped stone walls. Within those walls she could see folk movingliveried servants.
Calmly she strolled up the path, ascending a broad stair to where a grizzled, monocled man of graying years and mustache was enjoying a row of flagons, each containing a different wine. He stared at her in amazement for only a moment before springing to his feet and saying, "Great lady, be welcome in Low Rythryn Towers!"
He bowed, offered her his hand, and indicated a vacant chair beside his own. "I am Lord Thael Sem-bergelt, once a battle commander of Sembia, but now lord only of this house. I am delighted the gods have brought me so noble anddare I say?beauteous a guest! Pray, make known to me your name."
"I am Storm Silverhand, called by many the Bard of Shadowdale," Storm replied with grave charm, "and I must tender my apologies for arriving uninvited. My spell travels brought me here unintentionally."
"No apologies are needed, not at all! In truth, you filled me with delight, strolling up through the gardens like that as if you were some hidden nymph come to greet me! It seemed this house were showing me one of its treasures!"
"Gallantly said, my lord," Storm said with a twinkle in her eyes. "I fear I've upset the calm tenor of your days. You must have few guests."
"We see few welcome guests in these troubled times," the old lord agreed gravely, offering her an empty goblet and silently beckoning a servant over. "But my house is honored by your presence. I heard you sing once in a tavern in Selgaunt, when you danced on a table for a room of weary soldiers. I'll not forget that."
Storm inclined her head in thanks. The servant, bearing a silver platter of decanters, glided to a stop between them.
"Pray take wine, Lady Storm," the old lord said earnestly, leaning forward in his chair. "I dearly hope you can stay for evenfeast, or even grace us for a few days. My house is yours."
"I would be delighted to dine with you tonight, my lord," Storm replied, watching her host trying to keep his eyes away from where her plunging gown was designed to make him look, "and see the morning sun rise with you. But as for longer, I cannot say."
"I quite understand," Lord Thael rumbled. He ques-tioningly indicated the array of decanters.
"The glowfire, I think," Storm said, and enjoyed watching the gnarled old hands unstop and deftly pour.
He placed the goblet gently before her. "You are my fourth guest this even! There seems to be much strife on the roads in Battledale just now; we seldom see so many travelers this far off the road. You'll meet them at evenfeast."
"We?" Storm asked, raising her glass in salute. "You have a family, Lord Thael?"
"Only a nephew, Oburglan," Lord Thael said gruffly. "You'll meet him, too."
Guessing that the lord's nephew was no family prize, Storm savored the delicate bouquet of the glowfire for a moment, exchanged smiles with her host over the rim of the glass, and sipped. Yes. She kept her face pleasant and drank the wine with apparent relish, trying to ignore the burning sting of the poison as it slid down her throat. .. .
She'd chosen the drink herself. Thael had poured it, a servant had brought it ... ah, gods above, the Malau-grym could be anyone!
As dusk came, Storm was still grimly trying to decide which of the folk of the manor was the shapeshifter. The servants came to call them in to evenfeast in the candlelit great hall of Low Rythryn Towers.
The waiting had been pleasant. Lord Thael, obviously enchanted with her, had treated Storm with all the courtesy he knew, discussed politics with a keen worldly interest, laughed appreciatively at her mimicry of dale lords, and gave a shrewd summation of the directionless self-interest that governed Sembia.
Now he escorted her to the best seat at the board, at his right hand. A lady of rank, Storm bowed as an equal to him, and endured a daggerlike glare from a thin and sour young man. Probably Oburglan, furious at being displaced at table in front of guests.
"Well met, gracious lady," said Thael's expressionless seneschal, Burldon Hawklan. "Even in this isolated hall, we have heard of the valiant deeds of the Bard of Shadowdale, and Those Who Harp at her command."
Storm smiled back at him. "Minstrels tend to over-flower what they sing of," she responded gently, "but I thank you for your kind words." Hawklan bowed stiffly and took his place at the far end of the table; to Storm's eyes, he was every inch a professional soldierone who did not consider himself retired.
The other guests were less impressive. One was a smooth-faced, saturnine trader in spices and pelts from Ordulin by the name of Loth Shentle; the second was a young and handsome priest of Tymora from Selgaunt, Dathtor Vaeldeir, who professed to be very excited at the chaos now reigning over the Realms; and the last was a grim and dangerous-looking man, Thorlor Drynn, introduced to her as a trade envoy of Hillsfar.
The dinner was excellent, consisting of roasts of just about everything that could be roasted, smothered in a variety of gravies and sauces, with spiced greens served as garnishes. And wine, of course... much wine.
There was poison in her goblet again. Storm took a certain dark amusement in the fact that she could go on drinking it all night without ill effects because of what Mystra had made her into. She let her eyes wander up and down the table, wondering which of the eyes meeting hers belonged to a shapeshifterand how soon it would be ere the Malaugrym grew restive and attacked.
The conversation began with talk of trade difficulties in these lawless times, and came around to unreliable magic and priests rendered helpless or mad and the Fall of the Gods. At that point Thael declared he'd heard enough about gods and their doings, and diverted talk to the future of trade in the Moonsea lands and the Dales, and the difficulties Zhentil Keep's aggressive nature was causing to all traders.
The grim envoy of Hillsfar spoke up. "For my part, my lord, we in Hillsfar are resolved to meet force with force. For too long the Zhents have taken advantage of the absence of strong nearby opposition to force their will on other folk and territories not their ownin fact, to behave little better than the brigands we universally detest.
"I do not speak of the times they raise armies and march on one of uswhich, by the way, seems to happen at least once a spring, ruining harvestsbut of their open attempts to control how and where ore is brought out of Glister, and anything at all out of Daggerdale. They try to dictate where and when ships may sail the Moonsea, on what terms we must all trade in the region... and even if we may trade at all with their rivals Cormyr and Mulmaster."
"Bullies will always be with us, sirif not one, then another," Loth Shentle said smoothly. "The trick is to anticipate their moves and take trade advantage of the side effects; a shortage of food here, rising prices of scarce items there..."
"As a fur dealer, you profit well out of Zhentil Keep's aggression, aye," Thorlor Drynn said coldly. "It has kept the prices of furs falsely high these ten years or more."
"I deal with the world as it is," Loth Shentle replied easily, "not as others might wish it to be."
"Yes, yes," the priest of Tymora said excitedly. "Deal with what the gods hurl your way, taking chances whenever you strive for something that is not the most obvious or easy!"
"But surely, my lords," Storm said quietly, "one should not accept the world as it is. Deal with it, yes but strive always in one's dealings to get something in return, to make the world give a little ... to nudge it in the direction of one's dreams."
Loth Shentle snorted. "I dream of vaults full of coins, Lady Storm," he said wryly. "Have you any that you can yield unto me?"
"Dreams are just that: dreams. Warriors must deal with the real world, with all its harsh brutalities and cold truths," the seneschal said.
Storm turned to look down the table. "I do not see the gulf between dream and reality, Sir Hawklan. We must fight Zhents because they actively pursue their dreams. In Shadowdale, we have fought them army to army, not merely poison in flagons'*she looked up and down the table, but saw no telling expression in the faces turned to her"and daggers in the dark. Seven open battles these past ten summers. We should all pay very great attention to dreams." 
Thorlor leaned forward. "Well said, Lady. I'd say the lords of Zhentil Keep have done quite well in their dreaming. Voonlar is already their vassal town, the Citadel of the Raven, which was to belong to us all, is firmly in their grasp, and Teshwave and Yulash lie in ruins because of them ... to say nothing of the harm done to the once-proud cities of the Moonsea North, Daggerdale, the Border Forest, and west along the trade route to far Waterdeep."
"Aye," their host said gruffly, setting down his heavy flagon. "There's a dream: the trade route from here across half Faerun to the Sword Coast. An awesome undertaking, however base the motives and bloody the doing. What say you, Nephew? You once told me you wanted to see Waterdeep."
"I wonder at what tolls I'll have to pay," Oburglan said sullenly, "if I wait for the Black Gauntlet to finish this trade route. I heard there was a Zhent takeover in Loudwaterand some dealings in Saerloon, too... something about a lady sorceress." He looked across the table. "What do you know of this, Lady Stormas a sorceress yourself?"
Thael turned a look of reproof on his nephew, brows bristling, but Storm smiled across the table at the resentful young man. "I'm hardly a sorceress, Oburglan, though I can cast a spell or two. I leave that to my more capable sisters. As to what befell in Saerloon, the sorceress who seduced those merchants and turned them to stone statues was an agent of Zhentil Keep. Over the years I've never found such tactics to have lasting success."
Someone chuckled, well down the table, and Obur-glan's eyes were murderous as he raised his flagon to cover his mouth.
"Stone statues do furnish a garden, thoughas Bur-gusk of Selgaunt found," Loth Shentle joked.
"Not this garden," Lord Thael rumbled. "I'd be too afraid of the spell wearing off and discovering I've got some mad Netherese sorceress at the far end of my pondand more: that she's furious and happens to have a spell or two that can level mountains! What would I say to her, eh?"
"Care to dance, my lady?" Dathtor suggested. There were roars of mirth.
"How about: my name is ... and my ransom is forty thousand pieces of gold?" Loth Shentle suggested.
"No, rather: my name is ... and my next of kin are..." Thorlor put in.
Lord Thael looked at the only woman at his table, and his chuckles died away. "I forget that you have freed folk from stone, Lady Storm. What did you say to them?"
Storm looked into her glass, and answered, "I usually told them where they were, that I meant no harm, and what year it was. They always wanted to visit the privy after that."
That innocent and truthful observation brought a general shout of laughter.
When it started to die Storm added, a twinkle in her eyes, "But if I met the Netherese lady you mention, I'd probably say: I've had mornings like you're having!"
Everyone hooted, even Oburglan. Storm mused briefly to herself about the effects of too much wine on folkit made them laugh, or cry, or rage all too easily. She plunged the table into awed silence by adding, "The only memorable Netherese mage I did meet was a man, and his body had withered away to almost nothing... so he tried to take mine."
"Gods," Hawklan mumbled after a very long moment had passed. "How did you escape?"
Storm shook her head. "I'm sorry," she said gently, "but that's a trade secret I keep as close about as any merchant guards his own. Ask Mystra to tell youit is hers to reveal."
Oburglan sputtered. "That's right!" he protested. "Say something like that, then turn all mysterious!"
"Oburglan!" Thael rapped out. "You speak to a great lady; do so civilly, or leave this board."
His nephew's face flamed, and he brought his goblet crashing down. "Right, then" he began, placing both palms on the table to shove himself upright.
"Oburglan," Storm said softly, catching his angry gaze, "please stay. You are right to be angry... 'tis a maddening tactic we old wielders of sorcery use, to tell half a story and then fall silent when you want to know all. I would say more if I could, and I apologize for mentioning the Netherese at all."
Oburglan stared at her for a moment. He fumbled for his goblet. "How old are you, then?" he mumbled, eyes surveying Storm's curves. "I mean ..." he looked away and scratched at the lip of his goblet in some confusion, "I don't see any wrinkles."
Down the table, someone sighed, someone else loudly stifled laughter, and Lord Thael covered his eyes.
"I apologize for this wild-tongued kin of mine," he rumbled. Tray, forgiveness, Lady Storm!"
He turned blazing eyes to Oburglan. "Lad, lad, one never asks a lady her age, unless perhaps you're her suitor and must needs know what ground you walk upon! And even then, 'tis best to ask her brother, or father, or anyone else!"
"Your advice is good, Lord, and should be followed by all men of breeding," Storm agreed cheerfully, "and yet there are exceptions to every rule... and I am one of them."
She caught Oburglan's eyes again, and gave him the easy grin of a sister. "Never trust a minstrel or bard who speaks of times and ages, for they're always stretching a year here and a year there, speaking of long-ago battles or fair ladies as if they'd witnessed them themselves. But this once, and before all this table, I'll tell you truth: I am half a dozen years shy of my six hundredth summer."
Oburglan gulped, stared at her, started to sneer... then gaped. "You're serious," he whispered.
Storm nodded. With one slim hand she indicated the shoulder that her gown left bare. "Not bad, eh?" she said in perfect mimicry of Lord Thael's gruff tones.
The table erupted again, and this time Oburglan joined in the general mirth. Lord Thael was practically weeping with laughter, his head nodding almost into his platter.
At the other end of the table, Hawklan saluted her with his goblet and said, "Remind me never to say anything before you, Lady, that I would not want to hear parodied!"
"A good rule for every man, Sir Hawklan, when dealing with any man or maid," she returned, raising her own glass. Did his eyes rest on it just a trifle too long?
Ahno. They were fixed a little lower down. This gown hadn't been such a bright idea after all. But then, sophistication has its price. Moreover, if all of us change what we are and what we do because of the threat of Malaugrym attack, shapeshiflers have won the victory without ever having to fight the battle!
"In that time, I have seen Hillsfar governed in many ways," Storm said, turning to the envoy as the laughter started to die. "I'd be interested to hear what you can tell us of Lord Maalthiir's publicly stated aims and intentions."
Thorlor Drynn inclined his head. "I thank you for your diplomacy and understanding, Lady Storm, in the wording you just employed. In reply, I can say only: very little. Lord Maalthiir has often promised to make Hillsfar great and to cleanse it of all hardship, suffering, and corruption. Laudable goals that none, I daresay, could seriously contest. By his actions, I think you can safely add to those general aims his intent not to let Zhentil Keep have possession of Yulash, nor to suffer Mulmaster or Zhentil Keep to have control of the river Lis, or Moonsea shipping in general. For what it is worthmy words as a mouthpiece of Hillsfar being, of course, suspect by definitionI see no great preparations for armies to march, 
nor intentions on my lord's part to seize any other city or territory of Faerun."
"I'm relieved to hear it," Loth Shentle said dryly, "as should be all neighbors of Hillsfar. Two cities of rampaging warlords are more than enough hereabouts."
"You speak overcautiously, Sir!" the priest of Tymora told him, refilling his own goblet for perhaps the fortieth time, his face flushed with its effects. "Strife brings change, and change is the natural order of things. It makes men and maids able, and quick, and alert! Bold, and"
"Forced to rely on Lady Luck," the seneschal put in from the end of the table. "I've heard the litany a time or two before you were born, good Dathtor!"
The priest turned his red face around slowly to fix Hawklan with a bright-eyed gaze. "Then you should know e'en better than I that 'tis true!"
"I know no such thing," Hawklan said firmly. "I am a simple soldier; I swing my sword, obey orders to the letter, and let others worry about causes and outcomes and grand strategies."
"And on your off days, you drink too much and wench too muchbeg pardon, Ladyand let life carry you on, on to the grave without disruption or excitement," Loth Shentle said.
"A summation that sounds familiar, Nephew?" Lord Thael said meaningfully. Oburglan flushed.
"No, Uncle! I mean" his eyes darted to Storm, then back to Thael with an almost pleading look.
"Don't embarrass me in front of the lady, Uncle?" Storm asked the youth. "Is that what you want to say, but dare not find the words?"
Oburglan stared at her, opened his mouth, and shut it again, turning ruby to the tips of his ears.
"Oburglan," Storm said, setting down her goblet to lean forward, "never be embarrassed to admit truth, or think and talk about life, in front of anyone. I'd be more embarrassed to He about my life or refuse to admit that things are as they are. I'm not upset to learn that you're drifting the days away hereit's not my life wasting away. If you're upset talking about it, that shows you're not satisfied in doing so, and that's gods-be-damned good."
Heads turned along the table at her language, but Storm kept her eyes locked on Oburglan's. "What you'd best do, when we're all gone, is take a walk in that beautiful garden out there with your uncle, and talk about what you want to do in life. Not to do what he says, but to decide for yourself. We all have to, sooner or later. If it makes you feel better to hear it, I'd passed away almost seventy years before I stopped my wild, witless pursuit of fun and started wondering what I wanted to do for myself."
Oburglan gulped. "Seventy years?" he said faintly. "I didn't know there was that much fun."
The table roared with laughter once more. When Lord Thael could speak again, he slapped Oburglan's arm, "Well said!" He turned to Storm and added quietly, "And very well said, Lady. I don't think I've a tongue nimble enough to thank you rightly for saying those words. Fve never heard it said better, in all my... er, sixty-eight years."
Storm smiled at him. "Shall I come back in two years to ask you what you've decided to do with your life?"
There were uneasy chuckles around the table, and Thael shook his head with a rueful smile. "I'd forgotten that the tongue can be sharper than a sword."
"I think you have the quotation wrong, Lord," the priest offered jestingly, but Storm turned on him with a smile.
"What, Hand of Tymora? You stand in service to a goddess and don't know for yourself the truth of that maxim? Truly, you must be a very good priest! All the clergy I know would much rather face the swords of foes than the lashing tongues of their superiors!"
Dathtor Vaeldeir winced. "I begin to see the truth of another maxim, Lords and Lady: 'If thou art captured, do and say anything to keep yourself from the hands of your foe's womenfolk.'"
Deep laughter rolled out around the table, and more than one eyebrow in the room rose to see Storm laughing as heartily as the others.
She raised her glass of newly filled, still-poisoned wine, her heart light, and bid the night continue long.
When the table did rise, her wish had been fulfilled; they'd talked away most of the time until dawn, and the first shift of servants had been replaced at table by a second. Most of the men were stumbling with drunken weariness as they sought out the jakes; Dathtor the priest was roaring drunk, and Oburglan had been emboldened enough by his imbibing to ask her how one best chose a wife. Storm was still smiling and shaking her head over that as she went to the women's garder-obewhich, of course, she had all to herself.
No one attacked her there. Afterward, she went for a walk in the gardens in the last faint moonlight, avoiding the torchlit areas. Someone at that friendly table was a shapeshifter... and a Malaugrym dare not leave her alive, when she could call down the Simbul upon him or point him out to half a hundred wizards. The poison raging through her veins was proof enough of that.
No, an attack would come. She kept to the shadows as Loth Shentle strolled past, a little unsteadily, singing an old familiar ballad about ladies fair and fey. He startled her a few steps farther on when he paused on one of the bridges, announced, "Gods, but she's beautiful!" and proceeded to vomit his evenfeast helplessly into the pond.
Someone else was walking among the far fern beds, impossible to identify in the gloom. Storm sat down on a bench in the lee of a spiky bush, only then discerning the seneschal, Burldon Hawklan, who strode softly past, hand on sword, eyes sober and alert, taking care to make little sound.
Storm rose thoughtfully and watched him vanish into the night. In one hand, she hid the small thing she'd taken out in the garderobe.
"Out takin'takeengair, pretty lady?" said a loud voice by her elbow. The drunken priest of Tymora tried to lean against the tree, missed, and went for a short stagger before finding his balance again. Storm brought her hand to her mouth to cover her smile as he grinned loosely at her, sketched a shaky salute, and said, "Doandoantdon't you worship the Lady Tymora, e'en as I do? C'mere!"
He was upon her, and the smell of wine was strong, and triumph blazed up in his eyes as he embraced her. His arms tightened... and seemed to be changing shape.
This was it. Their lips brushed together, and Storm worked her small magic in careful haste.
An instant later cruel claws raked her back, tearing away her gown and the flesh beneath in ribbons. Storm gasped and stiffened at the raw painbut instead of trying to pull away from the Malaugrym, she leaned into his embrace, deepening their kiss. His savaging of her back slowed in astonishment, but Storm clung to him with all her own great strength, holding him firmly as her tongue thrust her saliva into his mouth. With it went the powdered silver from the coin she'd dissolved with her spell.
The shapeshifter spasmed in sudden agony, fear, and desperation. The silver was as poisonous to him as the liquid he'd been feeding Storm all night. Had she not been one of Mystra's Chosen, she'd have died hours ago, after the first sip Lord Thael offered her. She kept that in mind as she drew her mouth away from his and watched him closely. The creature who was not Dathtor Vaeldeir shuddered in her arms, convulsed, and died.
When she was sure he was dead, Storm swung his body over one shoulder, letting the claws that still dripped her blood dangle, and carried it grimly toward Lord Thael's kitchen wing, where there should be firewood enough to burn it.
She was most of the way there, crossing the great flagstone terrace, when many doors opened in the manor walls and a score of servants rushed out with lit torches, enclosing her in a wide ring.
Lord Thael stepped out last and faced her, sword in his hand. "What have you done, witch?" he bellowed, monocle dangling. He peered at her, and asked, "Or... is that you, Lunquar?"
Storm met his eyes coldly. "You know what I've done, Malaugrym. And what I must do." She lifted one side of her mouth in a mirthless smile, and asked, "Just to save time, tell mehow many more are there of you in this house?"
"I need no aid to deal with the likes of you, mortal woman," was the cold response. "With your precious El-minster dead, there's no one to watch us ... and no one to stop us!" His teeth glinted in the torchlight as they lengthened into fangs, and he added with soft smile, "Faerun will be ours!"
One of the servants screamed. Lord Thael was turning slowly into a thing with a tail and hunched shoulders of corded muscle. He came forward in a slow, careful crouch, eyes gleaming.
Storm let the body fall from her shoulder, kicked off her high sandals, and walked barefoot to meet him in the bloody tatters of her gown.
When she was only two paces away, the Malaugrym sprang and brought his blade around in a vicious arc. Storm strode right at him. His blade whistled through her as if she were smoke, and she grappled with him.
The Malaugrym ducked away and hacked at her again, saw that the blade really could not touch her, and flung it away with a snarl. It was still clanging across the flagstones amid sparks when he flung himself on her.
They strained together in the torchlight, two sets of rippling muscles gleaming. The shapeshifter seized her shoulder and wrist and pulled, roaring triumphantly.
He'd intended to tear her limb from limb, slapping her awake and making her scream for mercybut he strained and pulled with all his might... and she resisted him easily, smiling all the while, and whispered the words of an enchantment,
The Malaugrym grunted in amazement at her strength, then felt his mouth and tongue moving of their own accordno, her will!to utter the single word "Ahorga."
Her magic had forced him to name himself! Enraged, Ahorga grew his neck to eel-like length and his fangs into snapping jaws, and he bit savagely at the smiling face of his foe. She turned her head away and forced his own arm up into the way of his jawssuch strength! He darted his head down and sank his fangs deep into her left shoulder and breast.
Now the screaming would start, and she'd plead for mercy... but no. This Storm woman hissed in pain but did not shriek or collapse. He bit deeply again, and twisted his head to tear a great gobbet of flesh free. Her blood fountained over them both, running freely to the flagstones, and he raised his head to roar exultantly at the high, glittering stars.
Then he felt pain such as he'd never felt before, greater than the fire spells that had scarred him in his youth. He writhed helplessly in his torment. Silver flames licked along her spilled blood, fire the same hue as her silvery hair, blazing up into a pillar nowand he was burning with it!
It was in pain and despair that Ahorga of the Malaugrym roared, struggling to break free of her grip, and failing. He stared once into her face, and saw that her eyes were two silver flames, too.
"Nooo!" he screamed. "Mercy!"
"I shall give you, Ahorga, the same mercy you gave to Lord Thael Sembergelt," was the calm response. "The same mercy Malaugrym always afford mere mortals ... none. This is a cleaner death than you deserve." The silver flames roared up to claim him.
When the body was a burnt husk, Storm cast it down atop the body of the Malaugrym Lunquar, and watched them both blaze. The flagstones beneath them cracked and shivered with the heat, and more than one of the servants fainted away, torches toppling to the terrace to gutter out. Storm stood motionless above the pyre until ashes were all that remained of the two shapeshifters.
She looked up, half-naked, front and back in bleeding ruin. Oburglan and the seneschal, Hawklan, gazed white-faced at her, swords in their hands.
"Lady," Hawklan asked, "what are you?"
"One of Mystra's Chosen," Storm answered him wearily. "These were two fell shapeshifters; the real Thael Sembergelt and Dathtor Vaeldeir are dead."
The seneschal licked his lips and asked, "Was that, then, Mystra's silver fire?"
Storm smiled wanly. "It was... pray that you never see its like again."
"Lady," Oburglan asked, his voice husky with fear, "are you... will you be all right?"
"I will be fine soon enough, Lord Sembergelt," Storm said to him. "I grieve for your uncle. I would have liked to come to know him well."
Tears spilled from both their eyes, then, but Obur-glan's trembling lips shaped the wondering words, "Lord Sembergelt? You called me ..."
One bloody hand came up to trace his chin. He did not raise his blade or flinch away. "You are Lord Sembergelt now," Storm said to him, "and if ever you need comfort or guidance or the aid of Those Who Harp, come to meor tell any Harper." A trace of a smile came to her lips. "We even help spoiled Sembian lords." She stepped forward and kissed him.
His face was covered with her blood as she drew back, but his eyes shone with a new light through the tears.
"Lady," the seneschal said haltingly, stepping forward, "if there is anything we can do ... any aid we can render..." His eyes fell to her wounds, then rose again to her face.
Storm shook her head. "My thanks for your offer, noble Hawklan, but no. Ill be fine. I'll be even better if I know your new lord enjoys the same loving guidance you gave his uncle."
"Lady," Hawklan said quietly, "it shall be so. If you'll permit me?"
And he took her hand, went to his knee, and kissed her bloody fingertips.
Storm smiled at him. "As I bid Oburglan, so also I ask you: Call on me if there is need."
She stepped back from them, looked around at Low Rythryn Towers and the ragged circle of torches, and shook her head.
"One good thing has come of this, at least," she told the two weeping men. "Lord Thael lies where he would have wished: buried in his garden." She smiled at them again, then turned away. It was a long walk back to Shadowdaleand she'd need all that time to heal herself.
, See Mach-and Tay To SciRoioe
In a place of shifting shadows, behind hidden doors, in the heart of the ancient castle of the Malaugrym, was a light. The bright, glowing eye of a scrying portal floated in the murk, reflected from the tentacled face of a watchful figure bent over it ... a figure whose skin was as dark and ever-shifting as the sliding shadows themselves.
His eyes, however, were two bright flames, and the doomstars winked brightly as they spun endlessly about his wrist. He stretched, watched them dim momentarily as they passed through a dark drift of shadow, sighed, and murmured, "Fools... this house is breeding fools by the score. Lunquar and Ahorga both goneand they deserved it."
He turned again to the light, watching the wounded Storm walk through a merchant camp and wave away someone who rose to offer aid. Studying her kind, weary smile, he sighed again and passed his hand across the portal.
It rippled, then lit with tongues of leaping fire: a bonfire, this time. Steel flashed back its light as three figures in leather armor battled with twice as many men in black. They fought in a clearingthe camp of the black-armored onesand the three in leather were winning. As he watched, a black-armored figure took a blade in the face and fell back into the fire, throwing out a shower of sparks. Small wonder; if those three could fight their way alive out of the Castle of Shadows and leave more than a score of the blood of Malaug dead behind them, a few Zhentilar armsmen should prove no trouble for them at all.
Wearing a smile that did not mean he was amused, the figure let his scrying portal fade away, stood up, and melted into the shadows. It was time to do what had to be done.
Eaerun, northwest Elven Court woods, Flamerule 26
"How many?"
"Seven Zhentilar and one ore," Belkram said, counting on his fingers. "Oh, and that snake."
"Oh, yesmustn't forget the snake!" Sylune said merrily. She turned to grin at Sharantyr. They rolled their eyes in unison.
"I," Itharr said triumphantly, "stand ahead of you. My valiant blade has accounted for eleven Zhent deserters, one brigand, and three fingers off the left hand of another brigand!"
"Men will be boys," Sharantyr murmured. A ghostly giggle answered her from just ahead of her left cheek. She winced; Sylune had become invisible again.
They were tired, filthy, footsoregods, how did anyone stay in armor more than a day? The itching, to say nothing of the small things crawling in their matted hair. They hadn't expected the last four Zhents, and had wasted a day chasing thema day more than their rations. Empty bellies were groaning now, too.
All in all, it had been a successful patrol.
They trudged thankfully past the familiar beauty of
 Harpers' Hill. Passing it meant warm baths and familiar beds were only paces away.
"Daylight!" Itharr broke into a trot.
Sharantyr gritted her teeth and managed a sprint, her raw joints and blistered feet shrieking in protest. Catching up to Itharr a bare three paces from Treesedge, she snarled, "Walk across someone's crops, and they'll kill you! We go that way until we strike the road!"
She pointed, and Itharr gave her a dirty look. He sighed and began to trudge in the indicated direction. Tou never spared two breaths about turnips before!"
"I was never hungry enough to eat raw turnips before!" Sharantyr snarled back at him.
Behind them, Belkram chuckled wearily and waved a hand. "Lead on, the pair of you... and talk to me of roast goose, and gravy and old ale ... ham and dressed pheasant and stuffed snakenot gods-be-kissed turnipsr
"Ye gods!" Itharr cried, slapping his forehead. "The snake! You forgot to bring the snake!" He turned reproachful eyes on Belkram. "We could've eaten that snake!"
"No," Belkram corrected, "You could've eaten that snake. I saw all the human skulls in its lair."
"Death, death, death," Sharantyr muttered. "Is that all adventurers talk about?"
Belkram gave her a look. "Well, let's seethere are other topics: butchering monsters for the stew pot, burning helpless villages, pillage, ra"
"Death it is," Sharantyr said firmly. "Only a few hundred more paces now. Talk to me of death."
"Only a few hundred more paces?" Itharr gasped. "Good! Go and make them for me, so I can fall asleep right... here...."
"Oh no, you don't," Sharantyr said, pulling hard on his hair as he sagged. "Come onI'm sure that tree wants to grow to reach the light, and it can't if you're draped all over it, snoring like a flatulent bull! Mover
"Yes, sir!" Itharr responded sarcastically, moving smartly forward for all of three paces before sinking into a weary walk once more,
"Gods above preserve me," Sharantyr said through clenched teeth. "Men!"
"Oh, dear," Belkram said to Itharr. "She's noticed! I guess that means we have to go way off into the bushes, now, whenever we have to ..."
"What she hasn't noticed," Itharr retorted, stumbling in the weariness of utter exhaustion, "is that the gods aren't above anymorethat's what this whole trouble's about... as Elminster said."
"Good old Elminster," Belkram said sadly, putting one foot in front of the other and almost falling out into the road.
"Well, granted I look bad this morning," growled the wispy-bearded guard who caught hold of his shoulder to steady him, "but I'm sure I don't look that bad. No, El-minster's dead, friend... and so will ye be if ye don't convince me of thy rightful loyaltyand fast."
He gulped as the ghostly head of the Witch of Shadowdale came floating out of the trees to hang in front of him. "Well met, Guthtar," she said softly. "You remember me, do you not?"
"A-Aye, Lady," the guard stammered as Itharr and Sharantyr came out of the trees. "And her, too!" The six guards behind him fell back to get weapon room, eyeing all these sudden arrivals warily.
"Aye," Sylune said dryly. "I've noticed you never forget a fair-looking female. You are going to let Lord Mourngrym's patrol pass, aren't you?"
"Of course, Lady! Uh, begging thy pardons, sirs and Ladyuh, Lady and Lady... ahoh, dungr
"And a pleasant good morning to you, too, Guthtar," Sylun6 said with a smile, floating serenely past the sputtering guard. Belkram met Guthtar's eyes, spread his hands in silent commiseration, and followed. Itharr and Sharantyr trudged along in Belkram's wake, leaning on each other.
"Oh, gods," the lady ranger yawned. At a weary stagger, she neared the crossroads. "We must never let ourselves get this tired again!"
"I tried to tell those last four Zhents that," Belkram told her, "I really did! But they just kept on snarling and waving swords at us, and, well...."
"Back from patrol, I see," Hammerhand Bucko called cheerfully from his doorway. They waved at himthe gesture almost made Itharr fall overand went on, not daring to stop now for fear of collapse.
"Lhaeo? Lhaeo!" Sylune called, her head dancing up and down in the air to snare the scribe's attention. "Lhaeo!"
Elminster's scribe was a morose figure, trudging along every bit as wearily as they were walking. He looked up at Sylune's call, brightening visibly. "Well met, friends!"
"Itharr, give my stone to Lhaeo, will you?" Sylune floated close to the scribe's head and asked him, "Could you take me to Storm, please, good scribe? We have much to talk about."
Lhaeo blinked at her as Itharr handed him the stone. "Of course, Lady'tis where I'm headed." He turned his head to look at the unshaven ranger, and said, "You folks look tired."
"No, really? And I spent all morning doing my hair!" Itharr told him with weary sarcasm. He set off grimly toward the tower.
"Fare you well, Lhaeo," Sharantyr added.
The scribe smiled wanly and waved. The three rangers nodded wearily to him and walked the last stretch of road to the Twisted Tower.
"Ohh, I'm so tired!" Sharantyr wailed. "And my feet hurt so muchr
"At least you've still got feet," Belkram said darkly. "Mine wore off about ten hours back."
"Try scratching all your itches," Itharr said without turning. "It helps to keep you awake."
"Could we ride on patrol next time?" Shar asked as they turned up the tower path.
'Through all those trees? We'd be wanting some eel-horses, rd guess," said Belkram.
"Just a few more steps, friends," Itharr mumbled. "Just a few more steps..."
Then he noticed the row of gleaming breastplates and crossed forearms blocking their way. His eyes traveled up to the hard faces above them, but he recognized no one. Seven guards he'd never seen before were ranged across the open doorway of the Tower of Ashaba. They wore splendid chased armor and light helms in the hot summer sun, and their hairy forearms and corded thighs glistened with sweat. They were not moving aside.
"Stand aside, friends," Itharr said wearily, "before we fall over."
"And who are you three?" the centermost guard asked coolly. "Travelers generally stay at the Old Skull Innat the crossroads, down there. Beggars had best go to the temples... there's a house of Tymora just across the river, there."
As he'd spoken, Belkram and Sharantyr had straggled up to face the guards. Shar sighed and let her head sink into her hands. No. No, not now. Her knees sagged, and Belkram put his arms around her to hold her up, swaying himself.
"We have chambers awaiting us in the tower behind you," Itharr said quietly, taking two steps to the right so he could lean on the nearest hitching post.
"Oh? How so? Are you, then, lords and ladies of Shadowdale?"
"She is," Itharr said, waving a hand. "The Lady Sharantyr."
"Sharantyr? It's not a name known to me," the guard-captain said jovially. "Any of you heard of a Sharantyr, lads? Eh?"
There was a general chorus of chuckled nays. Itharr regarded them with dull eyes. "You're all new hires, aren't you?"
"Thurbal engaged us some days ago," the guardcap-tain said a trifle stiffly. "We hail from Westgate."
"Belgard's boys?" Belgard was a retired mercenary whose school turned out guards known for their efficient cruelty and alertness; his graduates had gained swift popularity among the merchants of Sembia, and generally cost a client food, accommodation, armor, and over five silver pieces a day.
"Yes," the guardcaptain said shortly, "and we've been hired to keep brigands and ZhentiJar out of this tower, see? So clear off, all of younow!"
The three bedraggled figures in leather made no move. A light, rhythmic sound came from the female among themthe sound of snoring.
One of the guards snorted in amusement, and stepped forward. He bore a long baton in his hand, and used it to rap Sharantyr none too gently on the shoulder. "Hey! Wake up and clear off! You've heard the order. Now go!"
"Stand back, friend," Belkram suggested gently, "or I'll awaken enough to grow annoyed."
The guard cocked his head to one side, hands on hips. "Oh you will, will you?" he said sarcastically. "I quaver at the prospect!"
"Are you lot going to stand aside?" Itharr said. "We'd very much like to report in to Mourngrym."
"Lord Mourngrym's out riding the northern reaches," the guardcaptain told him silkily, "as all in Shadowdale know. I don't think you're anything more than brigands looking for a chance to slip inside. If you don't move on, it's brigands' chains youll be feeling."
"In one of the cells where we can lie down?" Sharantyr asked sleepily.
"No," the guardcaptain said with a cruel grin, "our orders are to hang brigands from the dangle-bars."
"We're not brigands," Belkram said sourly, dragging Sharantyr to the hitching post on the other side of the path and draping her over it, "and you'd do well to let us into Hie tower!"
"We're not hired to do well," the guardcaptain said. "We're hired to follow orders. You're not getting past, and you've spent enough of our time. We're supposed to watch who passes on the road, not waste words with ruffians on our doorstep. So get you gone, now, or there'll be trouble."
"There will indeed," Itharr said, from his post.
The guardcaptain looked at him coldly, then turned his head back to catch the eyes of the guard with the baton, who stood menacingly close to Belkram, and said pleasantly, "Aldus, pray dispose of these petty annoyances."
"Gladly, Captain," Aldus replied, raising his baton and reaching forward to take Belkram by the throat.
"Have a care, Aldus," Belkram said softly to him, "that's my Harper pin you're hauling on."
"So?"
"A Harper pin should mean something to you, Aldus."
"Oh, aye." The guard stepped back and turned to the guardcaptain. "This one's stolen a Harper pin, Captain!"
"Hit him and take it, then!"
"Gladly, Captain!" Aldus spun around and brought his baton around in a wicked arc. Belkram stumbled back with inches to spare, and the guard rushed forward, pulling his baton back for another blow.
It never landed. As he charged forward, a slim hand rose from the post, caught hold of his arm, and pulled. Aldus's head rammed the post with all the strength of his charge, and Sharantyr stepped back, turned to survey the line of guards witheringly, and asked, "Who's next, dolts?"
There came a roar of anger, and five men started forward. "Hold hard!" their captain roared out, but none of them paid him heed.
Two reached the Lady of Shadowdale first, batons outand she dropped to the path and flung herself at their boots. They went over her with a crash.
The third man in snarled a curse and kicked at her; Shar grabbed the boot flashing past her and hauled sharply upward. With a ground-shaking crash, the man fell on his rear. Then the batons of the fourth and fifth were raining down on herfor a few instants, before Belkram hit them from one side and Itharr from the other, and two helmed heads rang together.
Itharr fell on his knees atop the groaning third guard. The man emitted a sort of strangled whistle and thrashed around, struggling for breath enough to shout out his pain. Itharr rolled away, letting the senseless fourth and fifth guards fall on him.
The guardcaptain started forward hesitantly, seeing only two of his men left. They were rising with murder on their faces and swords in their hands.
Shar got to her own feet in time to face them, her hands emptybut by then Belkram had smashed aside the captain's hastily drawn blade and run the man up against the lintel, hands on his throat.
"Call your men off attacking the Lady of Shadow-dale," the Harper snarled at him as they strained eyeball to eyeball, "or so help me I'll tear your throat out!" Iron fingers dug deep into the man's flesh to back up those words, then loosened enough to let the man whimper.
"Aid!" he called out in a raw voice. "An attack!"
Disgusted, Belkram bounced the man's head forcefully off the stones. The captain's eyes rolled up for a brief instant before he slid to the ground, but the Harper was already snatching the captain's blade out of his hands and whirling around.
The retreating Shar had fallen back over the tangled trio of unconscious guards, and Itharr was crouched over her, trying to ward off two jabbing blades with a pair of batons he'd snatched up.
Belkram snarled an oath and charged around the pile of bodies. He lunged at the two guards, waving his captured blade. They turned to meet him and fell back to force him to come between them. Belkram obliged, swerving at the last instant to bind the blade of one with his own. He grabbed the man by the armpit, swung him around into the path of the other guard's blade, and with his free hand smashed the man across the throat.
Gagging, the man fell. Belkram clubbed the back of his helm and sprang back.
The last guard's blade flashed through the leathers at Belkram's wrist, and the stolen sword spun away from the Harper's numbed fingers. The guard's face widened into an unpleasant grin. He sidled a foot or so, still smiling, as a stool Itharr had snatched up from inside the door struck the side of his head and carried him a pace to the south... into the realm of dreams.
The two Harpers looked wearily at each other, went to pick up Shar from the tangle of sprawled bodies, and trudged into the tower.
They'd almost reached the end of the long central passage when Shaerl and Thurbal, captain-of-arms of the Twisted Tower, strode briskly across it. The Lady of Shadowdale was speaking. "Well, I don't think those new men are trained eno"
"I couldn't agree more," Belkram snarled, cradling Sharantyr's head against his shoulder.
"Aye," Itharr agreed, casting a guard's sword to the tiles at Thurbal's feet. "Next time you hire seven dolts from Belgard, be sure he remembers to send their brains along with them!"
Thurbal gaped at the three of them, but Shaerl turned to her captain-of-arms and snapped, "Get fresh guards for the doorsand send all the servants you can find here, as fast as they can move!"
She guided the three rangers to a bench and rang the nearest gong furiously. To the first servant who appeared, she snapped, "Send everyone here at once! Then fill my lord's baththe new big one, and mind the water's hot! Get help, but do it fast!"
To the second she snarled, "Three carry-chairs, and men to bear them, back here as fast as you're able!"
Then she turned her head as the kitchen door opened. Turk? Bring whatever you have roastingand all the breads and cheeses you can lay hands on, and the best wine you can getto my lord's chamber at once!"
"Impressive," Belkram murmured to her just before he fell asleep.
"Indeed," Shaerl told him gently. She looked down the hall to the doors, where armsmen were carrying in seven limp armored forms under Thurbal's coldly furious eye.
Itharr woke once on the stairs, swaying in his chair to murmur, "Killed a lot of Zhents for you..."
"Eat first," Shaerl told him, guiding the chair across the parlor. "We'll talk later."
"Bathe first," Sharantyr announced firmly.
"Nay, Lady," one of the armsmen said gently as he set her chair down. "For ye, it's sleep first." The lady ranger's head lolled to one side as she began to gently snore; she heard him only in her dreams.
"Get this armor off them," Shaerl told the armsman, unbuckling and tugging at Sharantyr's body for all she was worth.
"Haste or care, Lady?"
"Care for them... haste otherwise," she replied briskly, hurling a vambrace across the room. It struck the far wall with a crash that made a serving girl winceand when the armsmen enthusiastically followed Shaerl's example, the maid covered her ears and fled. The air quickly filled with flying pieces of armor.
Amid the clangor, puffing relays of servants speedily filled the gigantic copper tub. Shaerl herself added the soap and wyverntail oil, then turned back to the armsmen. "Get some rope," she ordered the nearest one. "I don't want them drowning."
"Aye, Lady."
Striding to her wardrobe, Shaerl snatched the doors open and took the first three garments off their pegs without looking. Sliding them under the arms of each rangergods, the reek!and across their chests, she flipped the ends of the three gowns up for the armsmen to tie the ropes to, noticed that one garment was a favorite of hers, shrugged, and began to disrobe.
An armsman hovering uncertainly nearby gulped, looked away, and a sash slapped into him. He caught it reflexively, then looked up to see his Lady's gown coming his way, mastered a calm expression as he fielded it, and stepped forward to take the rest as they were offered.
The Lady Shaerl was stepping unconcernedly into the hot depths of the tub as the other armsmen rushed back in with coils of rope, goggled at her for an instant, and wisely set about their task without comment or delay.
"More soap!" Shaerl ordered briskly as servants scurried, "and that scratcher!"
The wooden back scratcher was handed to her, and she set to work. Lice floated away almost immediately atop the scummy water. "Bethra," she said, without looking up, "Draw Lady Sharantyr's hair out over the edge, put a bowl under it, and start washing! Use my seafoam ointment!"
So it was that when Purk bustled up at the head of a procession bringing platters of hot fowl from the kitchens, he found three rangers, grimy and snoring, slumped over asleep in the huge bath, and the lady of the tower in their midst, as bare as the day she was born, scrubbing and rinsing for all she was worth.
"A feast is served, my lady," he announced with quiet dignityand was most startled a moment later when Shaerl looked up at him through her dripping hair and snapped, "Well, off with your clothes and get in, Purk!
 Wake them up and feed themthe others can pass you the platters as you need them! And have wine ready so that no one chokesah, gods, give a bottle here first! This is thirsty work!"
A grinning kitchen-boy uncorked a bottle and handed it to his lady, who winked at him and said, "You're small enough! Pick up a brush, off with those, and get in here!" She took a swig of wine, gasped in satisfaction, looked at one of the armsmen, and snapped, "More hot water!"
Hastening down the stairs to obey, the armsman met one of his fellows hastening the other way with a basin slopping in his hands. The first said, "The lady's passion for bathing is crazed! Have they all washed their wits out of their heads in Cormyr? What's wrong with just going down to the millpond when your stink starts to drive the dogs away?"
The other shrugged. "Overcrowding?" he jested innocently, and went on up the stairs, redoubling his speed as they heard the faint but imperious call:
"Where's that water?"
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 26
Bralatar and Lorgyn stepped back into the privy chamber of the Tower of Mortoth and exchanged coldly triumphant smiles. "Worked perfectly," Bralatar announced, setting down his chest. It clinked.
Lorgyn raised an eyebrow at the sound. "7 went back for my wand and some favorite food ... I thought you were getting your best spells"
Bralatar raised a decanter into view. "And some real wine, to celebrate!"
Lorgyn chuckled and set down his own coffer to study the four spread-eagled, motionless figures hanging in the webwork of cold fire.
"Hmm ... see? It drains the mage first," he said, indicating the shrunken, nearly skeletal body of Mortoth the Mighty.
"Is that because we put him in it first, do you think, or because he wields the most magic?"
Lorgyn shrugged. "We'll have to gather some more wizards to see... and we'll need more, anyway, to keep this open. If these apprentices here don't work properly or hold enough life-force, we could be stranded here after just one more back-and-forth trip."
"Plenty of time to go mage-gathering after we've mastered a little more magic and had some fun," Bralatar said, picking up the chest again and starting toward the door.
He stopped and turned, indicating the female apprentice with a jerk of his head. Irendue stared endlessly and sightlessly at the privy wall, her mouth agape. "Shall we free her for a little dalliance tonight?"
"I don't know if that's such a wise idea," Lorgyn said with a frown. "I thought of that myselfshe could show us the magic of this place, for one thingbut then I thought of the chance it would give her to turn some spell we don't know about against us. There're so many enchantments in this place, one overlaid atop another, that I can't see any way to keep clear of them all."
"We still have to find a way out past those things in the moat," Bralatar pointed out, "and the stone golem, and the cat on the lawn, to say nothing of whatever servants he's got in the house, and any magic they can call on! I think we've no choice but to pull this one out of the thrall and question her."
"What's to stop her hurling a dozen spells at us the moment her wits're her own?"
Bralatar frowned. "Strip her to take away any magic she carries, tie her hands together to stop her casting spells, and with the same rope hang her down the privy shaft. Dangle her just above the water, where we can threaten her with the things in the moat. Then each of us stretch a tentacle down there with her; mine with an eye to watch her closelyso she knows we're seeing what she doesand yours to hold your wand trained right on her!"
Lorgyn thought about it, then began to smile slowly. He looked over at the unseeing female apprentice and said, "First, we'll have to find some rope ..."
Shadowdale, Flamerule 27
"Shadowdale ... a fitting name indeed," Argast said, peering through the leaves of the last tree on the west bank of the river Ashaba. "Where the Great Foe lived," he mused, "and so many of our kin died. Well conquer this place first."
"And rule it as a slave farm, anon," Amdramnar agreed, looking across the water at the twisted spire of the Tower of Ashaba. "Pretty, this ... all these trees, and the water...."
Argast looked at him. "That's not what you said when we were in the swamp."
Amdramnar snarled. "If I hadn't shifted fast enough, I'd be dead now. What was that?"
" 'Quicksand,' they call it. Didn't you hear the nice man who hauled me out?"
"Not until he screamed when you started to eat him," Amdramnar replied archly. "I was too busy washing the mud off... I can feel grit inside me, even now!"
"We only lost a day," Argast said. "Should we cross the river here?"
Amdramnar shook his head, putting an entire day of floundering through the mud-choked swamp west of them out of his mind... hopefully forever. "Let's work our way around and come in from the east. That man I talked to most of the night"
"Before you ate him," Argast reminded, just as archly.
"was from Hillsfar. I can talk as he did, and say the same things about Great Lord Maalthiir and the cursed Zhents and all that. We have to talk our way past guards no matter how we get in."
"Why not just turn to eels and swim down to the millpond? Up onto the bank, take human shape, and"
"Get challenged by the first guards we meet, or a wench in the tavern, or a shopkeeper," Amdramnar finished the sentence for him. "I want to talk to someone, to confirm that Elminster's dead... and this Hillsfar place is east of here, so we'd best be coming from the east."
"And doing what?"
"Going to ask Elminsterabout some strange shapeshifting beings our master Dundifolus of the Sixteen Unlit Black Candles saw. He'd come himself, but they changed both his feet into fish fins, and he hasn't yet managed to reverse the strange enchantment!"
Argast smirked. "You expect them to believe that?"
"Ill tone it down... but we should ask for Elminster, and say we've been sent by some mage. How will they know we aren't telling the truth? Their magics can't read the minds of any of the blood of Malaug!"
Argast nodded slowly. "Your plans are sound. Lead on."
And so it was, not long after, that two footsore wizard's servants from Hillsfar trudged into Shadowdale along the Voonlar roadand passed by three leather-armored folk who were quietly taking a woodcutter's trail out of the dale due east into Myth Drannor. The three rangers were refreshed and reprovisioned after a day-long sleep and a bath personally administered by Lady Shaerl of Shadowdale. With heavy packs on their hacks, they were setting out on another patrol and wondering when they'd meet with lurking Malaugrym. By the humor of the gods, neither band saw the other.
 
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 27
"M-Mercy," Irendue sobbed as they hauled her up through the privy hole she'd sat above so many times before, holding her bound wrists back behind her, over her head, so that she could barely keep her balance. "Mercy!"
Bralatar smiled at her as his tentacles took her by the throat and around both elbows, holding her so tightly she could barely breathe through her aching throat. Her eyes were large and dark in terror as Lorgyn's tentacles untied the ropes that cut into her wrists. He thrust her back, back once more into the cold embrace of the flames that did not burn....
Irendue's body trembled as the spell energy raced through it, and she whimpered once before the surging energy drove away her wits once more. "You see?" Bralatar told her as the light in her eyes slowly died, "you are untouched. This is mercy,"
He chuckled coldly while Lorgyn arranged the apprentice's limbs apart as they had been earlier. The endless hum of the spell flames grew stable once more.
"The gate is unharmed," he said at last. The two Malaugrym exchanged a smile and went to the study, snaking out tentacles ahead of them to uncork the wine and bring out some roast shadowbeast.
"Profitable, that," Bralatar said, flopping down in an old armchair that until recently had been the exclusive preserve of Mortoth, and raising one of Mortoth's best glasses in salute to Lorgyn. "The wench certainly knows how to talk with a wand nearly down her gullet."
"More to the point, she's seen Faerun shrewdly, and knows what lies behind what can be readily seen," Lorgyn replied, sipping at his own glass.
"Ah," Bralatar said slyly, "do I hear the tones of a Shadowmaster looking for a mate?"
Lorgyn looked at him levelly. "No," he replied, "you do not. I merely meant that what she knows makes her too valuable for us to destroy. How else would we have found out all that about the Realms and the wizards in less than a day?"
Bralatar nodded, levity gone. "You speak truth... she yielded much to us, and swiftly. Enough for me to conclude we'd best avoid Thay, the islands Lantan and Nimbral, and the slave keepersCalimshan, that was the nameuntil we know a lot more about Faerun. These Red Wizards'11 bear a lot of watching. They could be almost as much trouble as Elminster was. The Zhen-tarim, on the other hand, seem more persistent than competent. Would you say that sums up what she said?"
Lorgyn nodded. "I would... and so long as we keep these things in mind, and keep humans from realizing that there are shapeshifters among them, nothing and no one stands between us and our ruling any part of Faerun that we please. You'll take your preferred lands, and I'll take mine."
"I want to see those lands for myself first," Bralatar replied as they shared a grin. "And what better way than to have some real fun hunting this time, across half Faerun!"
"Chasing down wizards?"
"Chasing down and slaughtering," Bralatar said with a sudden flame in his eyes, "any humans we fancy."
1(5 Shadoofs So Shacp
Only the eyes of the two guards moved to follow him as Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale strode past the door of the forecourt, heading for the kitchens. He'd come straight in from a patrol in the northern reaches of the dale, and there was fresh bloodZhent bloodon his mud-spattered armor. He was bareheaded and unshaven, and his reddened, sunken eyes told of little sleep and hard going.
"Belmer!" he called back, turning, as he went on. "Get something hot from the kitchens, and a bottle of zzar, and take it to the Old Skull as quick as you can. A lady guest is giving birth, and the father needs a good meal and a walk with someone who's been a father not long pastso the gods've chosen you!"
"Aye, Lord," Belmer said with a smile, and left his post just inside the front doors to rush down the hall. Guthtar, who'd heard the exchange, was already moving to take his place.
Mourngrym stuck his head through the kitchen door, dipped a flagon into the stew pot, brought it out dripping, put a towel underneath it, and turned back down the hall, armor rattling in his haste.
"That too, Lord?" Belmer asked, hesitating.
"No, this is my evenfeast," Mourngrym told him with a grin. "Sylune tells me the audience chamber is full of folk with troubles, so Til be eating on the throne again. Just tell the cooks to send someone to the chamber a little later on to see if any of the supplicants are in need of something hot to eat."
Belmer turned pale at the mention of the Witch of Shadowdale, and muttered some prayer or other under his breath as he went into the steam-filled, noisy, bustling kitchens.
For a moment, Mourngrym stopped beside Guthtar with the steaming flagon in his hand. "Good Guthtar tell Thurbal from me that I want all of you men to do half shifts until I order otherwise. You've been done out of a lot of sleep, and it's time someone gave some back to you."
The normally terse Guthtar practically bounded into a salute. "Aye, my lordr he said.
Mourngrym chuckled and clapped him on the shoulder. "I thought you'd find those orders rode easier than most." He turned to the forecourt and nodded to his two new guards as he stepped between them. They stiffened in salute.
When the double doors of the audience chamber boomed closed and they heard the guards within thunk their spears on the stone floor, Argast turned his head to be sure the forecourt was now empty. Finding it so, he said to Amdramnar, "In spite of myself, I begin to respect this young lordling. If one is to be a weakling, why not go all the way and serve the people rather than commanding them?"
Amdramnar nodded. "I like him, toobut 'tis too early to tell... until we can spend a session or two in there, hearing him sit in judgment."
They fell hastily silent as Guthtar moved closer to open the door for the departing Belmer. Though they'd slain two of the newly hired Westgate men and taken their shapes, the two Malaugrym hadn't had a chance to hear either of their victims speakingin a sober state, at leastand didn't want anyone to overhear them now and think the speech of Aunsible and Haratch had suddenly and curiously changed.
Belmer went out of the tower, and a magnificently robed, bearded man of middling years came in, with the Lady Shaerl on his arm. The holy hammer of Tyr, worked in silver, rode on a heavy chain around his neck. "I find Shadowdale dispirited for the first time since the Knights of Myth Drannor rode into it for their first time," he was saying in a rich, sonorous voice, "and that is ill. Have you had much trouble in this time of strife?"
"We are only days away from turning back the armies of Zhentil Keep, good justicar," Shaerl said gently, "a victory that cost us greatly. The Witch-Queen of Aglarond"
The two guards clearly heard the priest's hiss of indrawn breath as he was turning to walk between them at that moment. He looked awed.
"tells us that the Zhent troops were led by the god Bane himself. In the fight against him, the temple of Lathander, which formerly stood across the way, was destroyed, along with the archmage Elminster and, some have testified under oath, the goddess Mystra, herself."
The priest came to an abrupt halt. "You credit this to be true?" he asked, his voice incredulous.
"I do, holy lord, and can produce witnesses whose testimony will, I know, impress you," Shaerl said firmly.
The priest waved a dismissive hand. "Well enough, so let us grant that the tales are true. Bane, Mystra, and Elminster all destroyed along with that temple over there." He drew a deep breath, shook his head, and bid gruffly, "Say on."
"Over half of our soldiers fell in defending the dale," Shaerl told him, "and are now pyre ashes; scarce a farm in this dale did not lose someone. Moreover, magic has gone wild here, and Storm Silverhand, the Bard of Shadowdale, has been missing for five days."
The priest suddenly looked very old, and felt behind him for the bench he knew was there. Shaerl smoothly guided him to it, keeping hold of his hand as the justicar of Tyr sank down onto the bench and whispered hoarsely, "Storm. I ... we were very close, once. I'd hoped to see her this night, after my audience with the younwith your Mourngrym."
Shaerl patted his arm. "She told us she was looking forward to your visit, because you had been so noble to her," she said softly. "She spoke of your valor and kindness."
For just a moment, the proud priest looked like a young boya young boy on the verge of tears. "She did?" he asked, his voice rising in wonder.
"Yes," Shaerl said, "and I've never known her judgment to be wrong yet. I feel as if you are an old friend."
Argast leaned a trifle closer to Amdramnar and muttered, "She's smooth, this one."
Amdramnar agreed with the slightest of nods, but just then the doors between the audience chamber and the forecourt scraped open and three farm folk came out. "The gods bless him!" the stout old woman in the forefront was saying.
"If he keeps his promise," her hired hand said doubtfully as they went out, not even seeing the two people on the bench.
The old woman turned and poked out a bony finger. "Now ye list and learn, Thurton! If there's one thing this young lord of ours does, it's keep his word! When my man, Undlejack, was still alive, he won a hand of card's off Mourngrym, playin' the night away at the Old Skull, and the lord asked him his price. ... A new roof, my man says, as bold as anything'cuz that's what we needed, in truthan' the next day, gods be blowed if the lord doesn't show up with half a dozen guards, n' do the roof right then! The lord himself, up on our cottage, sweatin' along with the rest of 'em! And when he's done, he asks if we want the fence set straight, seein' as they're here... an' up comes a cart, after, when we're talkin'and out of it he serves us a feast, an' the neighbors what come to watch, too! Tells us it's no more'n we deserve!"
She turned and marched out of the forecourt, then pivoted back to face the astonished Thurton. "Ye find me another lord anywhere as does that for mean' others what ain't high and mighty, an' can't do him anything great in return! Ye'll be lookin' from the Sword Coast to the weird lands past Thay, an' not be findin' one, neither!"
Another two dalefolk strode out, one of them weeping, and the other walking awkwardly beside her. "Now, Nanhe can't raise to life someone he can't find! He did say he'd walk you around those laid out in the temple for burial, to see if we can find him. No one could do more."
The next person to come to the door was Mourngrym, his face pinched with sorrow. Shaerl leapt up and threw her arms around him. "My love," she said in a low, tender voice as their arms tightened around each other. He kissed her gently, as if they were alone in the room, before lifting his head and saying, "Shaerl, ask Thurbal to pass the word. No one's seen Aglyn's grandsire since the battle, and Nan's beside herself not knowing. If anyone . .."
Mourngrym's gaze fell upon the priest of Tyr, waiting patiently to be introduced, and his face lit up. "Most Holy Arbeth! Be welcome, please, in Shadowdale! I'm sorry I didn't see you at once! Have you eaten?"
"If we could talk for just a few breaths, Lord Mourngrym, I'd be delighted to dine with you and your beautiful lady. I'd hoped also to meet the Lady Storm, but I hear she's... not to be found."
"That is so, I fear," Mourngrym said, "but come in, and we'll talk, the three of usoh, yes: my lady and I rule as one." The priest's eyebrows were still raised as the doors of the audience chamber swung shut behind the three of them.
"He's a good ruler," Amdramnar said grudgingly.
"All the better for us, then," Argast said. "Let him manage our cattle until we're ready to rule here."
"Our foes the three bold rangers seem to have just departed on patrol... do we chase after them?"
"No, let them go. They'll return to usand then we'll feed."
"Eat them?"
"YesI mean to eat them alive, limb by limb, slowly, while they plead. Well use our everfire wand to seal the joints and keep them living. They may last several days."
"And then?"
Then we'll reveal ourselves, and start on the rest of these cattle."
They had just time to fall silent and look as if they'd been that way for some time when a tall, silver-haired figure strode through the front doors, exchanged a salute, a wink, and a blown kiss that left old Guthtar blushing, turned into the forecourt, and strode to the audience chamber doors.
Argast turned. "Ah, my La"
"Hist!" Amdramnar and Guthtar said together, reaching to silence him. Storm turned, gave them all a cheery wave, and flung the doors wide.
That's Lady Storm!" Guthtar snarled in a whisper. "Never stop her going anywhere!" By common accord, the three guards had moved hurriedly to look through the closing doorsin time to see Storm, with a joyous laugh, sweep the justicar of Tyr up into the air as if he was a boy, then bring him down to her lips.
"Ye gods," Argast said, for Guthtar's benefit. "Guarding folk around here's going to be a lot more interesting than I'd dared hope!"
"A lot more fun, too," Guthtar whispered hoarsely, and trotted back to his post.
The two Malaugrym exchanged glances. These folk of Faerun seemed to care for each other a lot more than any of the blood of Malaug ever had... and laughed a lot more, too....
'f- his tentacles as she fought for calm.
The Malaugrym smiled softly. "Not yet, so long as you are obedient, Lady... not yet."
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 29
Cold fire flickered, and Irendue was free of the endless nothingness and blinking away tears to stare into the darkly handsome face of one of the cruel shapeshifters ... a human face whose eyes were two dark flames.
Irendue swallowed as he took her hand and lowered her gently to the privy chamber floor. The air was cool on her bare skin. She shivered as the monster smiled at her.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, voice quavering despite herself.
"Not yet, Lady." He drew her firmly out of the room, past the humming lines of white fire that held the suspended bodies of the master and her two fellow apprentices.
"My name is Bralatar," he said as he guided her into the study and sat her in the master's chair. Once she was seated, two tentacles slid gently around her wrists, and another captured both of her ankles, but their coils held her loosely, almost gently.
"What do you want of me?" she whispered. "And where is ... the other one?"
"Not far away, exploring this impressive estate," Bralatar replied, "but we can speak more freely later... after you've shown me how to do a certain something with this."
He held up Mortoth's crystal ball. The glossy sphere, larger than a man's head, shone back the fire of his eyes. His smile was not a pleasant thing to see.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, trembling under
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Flamerule 29
"1 understand Storm's concern about their living on to rise behind her and slay again after the battle seems won," Khelben muttered in exasperation, "but when one uses Mystra's fire on anything, not a lot is left to work with!"
"Alassra turned a dozen or more Malaugrym into mushrooms at Irythkeep," Laeral reminded him, "and they fell from a height to shatter on rocks. Surely some residue remains there, however small, that we could use...."
"Then go to the Cavern Perilous and cast whatever is needful to bring some of that residue here!"
Laeral glided close to plant a fond kiss on the ear of the lord mage of Waterdeep as he stood staring and sweating into the heart of a slowly spinning magical construct in the air before him. She left the chamber.
The construct wavered, billowed varicolored smoke, and collapsed, flying apart into spreading motes of dust and light. Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun gave the scattering residue his best scowl, sighed, and strode to his favorite armchair. For more than a day now, with Laeral at his side, he'd been working feverishly on a spell to trace Malaugrym or prevent them from shapeshifting freely ... preferably both.
He sipped at the elverquisst in his glass, turning it slightly so that the flecks of gold in the smooth, iridescent heart of the ruby liquor sparkled in the light of Laeral's latest spella spell that conjured a ring of dancing radiances that looked like candle flames.
Briefly he wondered if he should watch over his lady, to see that nothing ill befell her in the Cavern Perilous, a vast cave in the heart of Mount Waterdeep, which they used when working magics that might prove damaging to the surroundings. Nowadays, with magic gone wild, Khelben thought sourly, just about any spell could prove damaging to the surroundings.
He'd barely had that thought when the air across the room shimmered and sparkled. His beloved smiled at him as she crossed the room, a stone in her hands, the black spatters of long-dried mushroom clear upon it.
With a smile, Khelben bounded up out of his chair, feeling the familiar excitement of the chance to work truly new magic.
Then he saw the brightness of unshed tears in Laeral's eyes, and looked a wordless question at her as he came forward, arms out to hold and comfort her.
His lady sighed as she came into his embrace. "I wish Elminster were still with us. Even more than holy Mys-tra, his presencegruff ways and allmade me feel all was right in Faerun, underneath the troubles of the day."
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 30
"I'm sure I saw someone walking through the trees just about.. . here," Shar whispered. The three rangers crouched together amid a close-grown stand of massive dark trunksshadowtops that had stood on this slope for nigh a thousand years.
""What sort of someone?" Itharr asked her. "Human?"
"A youngish man, in robes, going from down there, along this slope, toward somewhere that way. I think he was on his way back after a call of nature."
"On his way back to a camp, or a halted group of wayfarers," Belkram mused. "Either way, we'd best be cautious when going where this knave you saw was headed, for fear of being seen by a sentryor blundering into the heart of a group of foes."
Sharantyr laid a silencing hand on his arm and pointed back the way they'd come. All three strained to see and hear something. After a moment, Itharr caught sight of a furry animal moving away and said reassuringly, "Badger ... a big one, but a badger."
"That's not reassuring," Shar said, her face inches from his, "because I saw it, too... and what I saw go behind that tree stood on two legs and had several eyes, on stalks."
"Malaugrym," Belkram said bleakly. "Hunting us?"
"Why else would it be here, in the depths of the Elven Court woods, where creatures to devour or hide among are relatively few?" Shar replied. "Doppelgangers like cities, where there's prey in every alley and folk to hide among on every corner. Of course it's after us."
"I'm vastly reassured to know we now know what's going on," Itharr said with a grin. "I'll be ecstatic if someone details what, by the skulls of the Seven Lost Gods, we do now ?"
Behind them, from just about where they'd been peering at the probable Malaugrym, there came a sudden shout of alarm and the sharp 'whump' of a spell-burst, followed by a crackling of brush and somebody crying out an incantation in desperate haste.
"That's easy," Belkram said with a wolfish grin. He waved a hand in the direction of the commotion. "We sit and watch."
Thuruthein Tlar was determined to impress his master. Orth Lantar was the wisest Red Wizard Thuruthein had ever metand wise Red Wizards guarded and rewarded those who were truly loyal to them, for there was no more rare commodity in all of Thay.
Prestym, lyrit, and the others were the sort of ambitious, scheming apprentices that surrounded every Red Wizard; a seething mass of fawning back-stabbers who were little better than fodder. Thuruthein suspected Orth Lantar knew their true worthand probably intended to spend the lives of more than a few of them in his stated attempt to penetrate the ruined elven city of Myth Drannor and find some of its fabled magic. Thuruthein was determined not to be counted among the expendable.
So when three humans in leather armor came skulking around the campbrigands, for certainin his watch field and during his sentry duty, Thuruthein knew just what to do.
He'd stood up behind his tree and was aiming the wand very carefully at the face of the woman, humming in anticipation and noting her wild beauty with the briefest of appreciative regretwhen he heard the smallest of sounds close behind him and whirled about, heart leaping into his throat.
To see himself grinning back at him! A Thuruthein Tlar with tentacles instead of hands. Those tentacles were stretched out an impossibly long way, like two hungry snakes, so as to be almost around Thuruthein's throat!
Orth Lantar's senior apprentice trembled, swallowed, and fired his wand with commendable calmnessonly to have his foe collapse like a felled tree before the spell-burst, falling beneath most of its harm.
It gathered itself and lunged at him with a forest of tentacles.
Backing away in sudden real terror, Thuruthein stammered the most powerful incantation he knew.
The blazing beam of destruction seared the body that so resembled his own almost entirely away to ashes but something dark and huge and very fast indeed reared up out of the leaves right in front of him, and seven mouths opened hungrily.
Thuruthein had barely time left to scream, "No! Noooo! I was loyal, Master! I was loyaaaaaah"
"A loyal Red Wizard's apprentice?" Belkram asked, raising his eyebrows. "A rare gem indeed!"
"Belt up," Shar hissed at him, "and let's get out of here! / don't want to get caught between a Malaugrym looking for us and an angry Red Wizard!"
"You don't?" Itharr asked as they sprinted frantically away through the woods. "Where's your sense of adventurer
The map held in midair before him, in the teeth of four floating skulls, was finally beginning to make sense. If one placed the balefire rune in the emptiness within the circle of nine black blades, a sequence of directions was revealed, leading to what, by the fires?
Orth Lantar's head snapped up from the map as his crystal ball flashed a blinding red and began to shudder, rattling in the carved cup that formed the head of his staff. At the same time, a binding in his mind shifted uneasilythen snapped, flooding his thoughts with a brief, fading pain and a frantic calling
Thuruthein? By the Seven Serpents! Orth Lantar whirled, snatching up his most mighty wand from the table. "To me!" he called, and flung up his hand. His most powerful staff was leaping across the tent toward it when he felt an inward tremor, and sighed. His best apprentice was dead.
The staff smacked into his palm, and the Red Wizard spun around again to fix the crystal ball with coldly furious eyes. Under his steady glare the scrying sphere quieted and clearedand in its depths he saw a wolf lift bloody jaws from Thuruthein's torn face. The creature twisted horribly and become a larger thing, like a bear with four long, spidery arms, shaggy hair, and piercing talons. It raised its head and sniffed the air, gave a horribly human laugh, and shambled purposefully away, not even glancing back at the apprentice's sprawled body and vainly lifted hands.
"An attack that robs me of something so valuable must be swiftly avenged," Orth Lantar told the nearest skull, "lest some rival behind it misread it as weakness and send all sorts of petty annoyances in its wake."
"Swift strikes the avenger, and towers topple toward the sunset," the skull intoned. The Red Wizard stiffened and stared at it in amazement. He shook his head, feeling suddenly dangerously close to tears. This must be one of Thuruthein's last pranks!
He set the warding rod to guard the magic in his tent from interlopers and shot a last look at the scene in the crystal. Rings winked on his fingersand he vanished. Four skulls tumbled to the floor, the conjured map fading away to nothingness once more. There came a startled exclamation from the apprentice on watch outside the tent.
"Master?" an anxious male voice called. "Master?"
At the lack of reply, its owner was emboldened enough to part the tent with the rod that bore the hand of a dead man, and peer within. In eerie silence, four human skulls rose to face him. Radiances deep within the rod on the table and the crystal ball atop its staff winked in unison, faster, and faster....
Prudently, the apprentice withdrew, letting the hangings fall.
"Craven dullard," one of the skulls murmured as it sank down to the carpets again. Thuruthein Tlar had been busy in the idle time he'd had earlier this day, when the tent was up and his master was busy setting the wards around the camp. Now his time was all gone.
The crystal sphere flashed a sudden scarlet, and another of the skulls began to moan.
"Where, by the beard of Elminster, are we running to, anyway?" Belkram gasped as they topped a rise and headed down a fern-choked gully. "What makes one part of this old forest any safer than another?"
"Ask her," Itharr grunted as, side by side, they rounded a riven stump. He jerked his hand back at Sharantyr, who was watching their rear, ready blade in hand. "She's t"
The rest of his words were lost in a sudden rush from the side of the gully, a plunging fury of flashing talons and dark hairy bulk and gleaming fangs.
Belkram was thrown off his feet to crash heavily through thorns and dead branches, and heard Sharantyr scream as she charged. He snatched at his blade as something large and dark and hairy clawed him... something that was crouched atop Itharr, raking its talons and surging forward to bite down at the ranger beneath it with a horrible wet crunching sound that made Belkram wince as his blade finally grated free of its scabbard. Too late.
17 All Too Much Magic
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 30
The fire was so cold, so utterly ... cold. Its chill made her limbs tremble, helplessly and endlessly, as it rushed through her and on around the web. Irendue gasped at its icy searing, feeling her teeth chatter uncontrollably as she stared at the all-too-familiar walls and ceiling of the privy chamber... and wished she could die.
The one called Bralatar had promised her death... after he and his companion were finished with her. She could still feel the cold slime of his tentacles slithering into her ear and out her nose, and the casual way in which he'd pointed out, as she gagged and wept, that simply expanding his tentacle at this moment would cause her head to explode like a rotten fruit, giving him his most favorite of meals ... still-warm human.
Irendue swallowed, sick at the thought, and almost let her head sink back into the endless white fire. It would be so easy to just surrender....
Aye, surrender and die in slow, screaming agony while the two shapeshifting monsters gloated over her...
Irendue swallowed again, and looked beside her at the master, hanging slack-jawed and unseeing, virtually a skeleton, his hair falling out in clumps from a shriveled scalp. Mortoth had been vigorous and strong, brusque even, but when he took her to his bed, he'd shaken with passion long pent up.... She looked again at his shriveled ruin and shuddered at what he'd become.
It was the first time she'd been free to see or think about anything without one of the shapeshifters ordering her about. The one called Bralatar had been careless in his haste, so confident of her trembling fear that he'd thrust her back into the web of fire and simply pushed at her face as he turned away. But her head had passed between two strands of the enchanted everfire, and so remained free.
His eagerness to be ahunting had let Irendue Nuen-tar, most favored but least powerful of the apprentices of Mortoth the Mighty, keep her wits, but she could take no advantage of that while she trembled in the grip of the spell. She was caught in some sort of gate that took the two monsters to and from their home. Even more chilling than the thoughts that her life and that of the master and Turnold and Larethkept the gate open, that it sucked energy out of them to do its work, was the thought of how many more shapeshifters might dwell at the other end of that gate... free to spill into Faerun at any time, to take the shapes of kings and merchant princes and wizards alike, and ruthlessly rise to rule all.
And what if they disagreed, as men always seem to, and fell to war? They could change shapes like flitting leaves to suit their purposes. The men, so helpless by comparison, would fall in their thousands and stain all Toril dark crimson with their spilled blood.... She had to get free.
So much depended on her. She simply must win free of this evil spell, but how?
Even now, one shapeshifter must be tiring of the hangings and statues and little carved things Mortoth had gathered in his long life of sorcery and be turning back through the labyrinthine ring-shaped house, toward this tower. The other must be hunting down the three grim rangers she'd seen him watching on their cautious creepings through an ancient forest.
The ball! The master's scrying crystal! She'd never dared do this for fear of Mortoth's wrath, but... She looked at the thing of bones beside her, then looked away again.
Slowly and carefully, Irendue lifted her head and called, "Buldimer! To me!"
There was a thrumming sound from the unseen doorway behind her, and Irendue's heart leapt. It pleased Mortoth to give names to the items he'd personally enchanted, that he might summon them in need. With this evil spell linking her to the master, it seemed the items would answer her call!
To me!" she called again, putting all her will behind it this time. The sphere of crystal sailed into view around the fiery web, flying smoothly through the air to come scudding to a stop in the air before her, a little to one sidethe master's side.
She could see into its depths, where there was a forest and tiny running figures, and the flash of swords, and ... a bear that grew a human face and hands. One of those hands rose from a fold of pelt holding some-tiling she knew well: the master's wand of pain.
She'd seen him use it on the cat that prowled the garden, and on Lareth once. She'd even felt its peculiar burning sting herself when she'd disagreed with Mortoth on what beast shape he'd change her into, and what use of her he'd make then. She'd never forgotten its lash, or the softly spoken word the master had used to make it hurt her so.
She spoke that word now. "Anamauthree," she said, softly but clearly, staring into the crystal, and feeling a sudden surge in the white fire around her as the crystal flickered.
The only flesh the wand was touching as she spoke was the grasping hand of the creature called Bralatar and so, of course, its magic was visited upon him. She saw him stiffen and stagger. From out of the forest beyond, something came roaring. Something blue-white and deadly, which washed across the crystal with blinding fury, sending out a lance of light through the web beside her.
The endless fire faltered for a momentand with a sob of desperation, Irendue flung herself forward through a moment of twisting, churning agony... and fell free.
She'd never thought falling on her face on the cold, hard privy chamber floor would be such a welcome thing... even with the sick, weak feeling in her right arm. She looked at it, shuddered, and bit her lip as fresh tears came.
Her once smooth, shapely arm was now wrinkles of skin over bones, from forearm to shoulder... a thing of death. She lifted it, and watched it move normally. She flexed the fingers of her unblemished hand, beyond the ruin, and watched them respond as usual. She touched the floor with one... and felt nothing.
Irendue swallowed and looked back up at the web of fire, a thing of stars through the tears on her lashes. The master hung there more dead than alive, and Turnold and Lareth, too.
She knelt on the floor below it and shuddered, gathering all her strength for what she knew she must do. The crystal ball flashed and spun silently above her, but she did not bother to look at it. Whatever befell in that distant battle, she must prevail here and now.
Here, andnow. Grimly she wobbled to her feet, unbalanced by her shriveled arm, and swayed, fighting for calm and stable footing. If she fell back into the web, this would all be for naught.
She wept anew when she stared into the master's sunken face. It was little better than a skull, a skull with staring white eyes, no pupils to be seen in those deep-sunken sockets.
Irendue swallowed. With her good arm, she reached out and tugged at his hair. A good handful of it came away; she flung it aside in revulsion and tried again, twisting her fingers into what little hair was left and shaking him. His scalp began to tear... and no blood welled forth!
"Master! Brave Mortoth! My master! Irendue calls thee!" she cried desperately, her face inches from his own. His lips moved slightly, but no sound came forth. He made no further reaction. She shook him again, and patted at his forehead and shoulderthe only other places in the flowing fire that she dared reach, earning an almost painful tingling in her fingertips as she did so. There was no response at all this time.
Irendue stepped back. Tears fell unheeded to the floor at her feet, and she regarded her master soberly. "Fare better than this, Mortoth," she said formally, once she'd fought down sobs to find a voice. Then, with a last great sigh, she turned away. The great wizard was beyond her help.
His hands were spread, the fingers awash with white fire. There was no way for her to get them free to open the spellbooks that would respond only to his touch. The only spell she knew to banish magic was in one of those books... and without its touch, this web of fire remained a doorway for legions of shapeshifters, and Faerun stood unguarded.
The words seemed to echo in her head, as if declaimed as a doom by a great herald. "Faerun stands unguarded," she whispered aloud, and looked wildly around the room, half-expecting shapeshifters to curl out of the air in all corners.
Nothing happened. The cold fires raged on, humming endlessly, and the crystal ball hung in the air beside her, flashing and flickering. She looked once into its depths, then at her two fellow apprentices, spread-eagled and sightless in the grip of the spell.
Lareth's hair was long enough, and one of Turnold's knees projected out of the streaming fire. She stepped forward, calling their names in a soft but insistent whisper, shaking them until the very flames around them snarled in protest. She was rewarded at last with eyes swimming open, questing dully about for a moment before fixing on her.
"Lareth! Turnold!" she hissed. "I need you!"
Lareth's mouth worked silently, but Turnold licked his lips and said, slowly and carefully, "I have always suspected this."
The words were followed by the faintest of smiles. Irendue would normally have answered such a gibe with stinging words, but now it made her eyes fill with tears. Turnold's wits were still his own... something, at least, was as it should be in the Tower of Mortoth.
"Turnold," she said, ignoring the tremor in her voice, "do you know where the master keeps scrolls or items to dispel magic?"
Turnold's eyes held sorrow. "In his grimoires, only. He didn't want us unweaving his wards and getting into things he wanted undisturbed."
"How can I get you free?"
Turnold managed the smallest of shrugs in his bonds of flame and said, "I know not, but this gate must be destroyedor all Toril stands in danger."
Irendue nodded and with an impatient hand wiped tears from her cheeks. "But how?" she'asked, thinking of all the unusable staves and rods and floating scepters in the rooms around her. Either one of the shapeshifters might step into the room at any moment. She had no time.
"The web," Lareth said haltingly, his voice sharp and high with fear at what he was suggesting, "lives through our life. Slay us, and it will fade."
Turnold's eyes blazed with sudden fire. Irendue looked helplessly from one imprisoned apprentice to the other until her eyes were snared by those of the older, wiser apprentice.
"Do it," Turnold whispered hoarsely, transfixing her with eyes of steel. " 'Tis the only way."
"I can't!" Irendue hissed helplessly, standing nude before him, tears rolling down her cheeks once more. She could not look away from his blazing eyes.
Hanging in the web of fire, Turnold said carefully, "You must. Know, Irendue, that I have always loved you'tis why I baited you so often."
"I can't harm anyone!" she wailed, clenching her fists.
"Take the sword the master keeps behind the door," Turnold said faintly. "Put it in my mouthand then push. Please."
Her tears almost blinded her as she found the sword in the study, fumbled its heavy length back through the passage, and came to face Turnold once more.
"I can't do this to you," she whispered. "I just can't."
"You must," he said fiercely, straining forward in the web of flames, "and you will. Put the blade in my mouth."
Irendue shook her head, weeping wildly. The sword point danced and glittered wildly in front of his-face until he growled, "I suppose one of my eyes would do as well, but I hardly think taking off my ears will suffice."
His familiar sarcasm steadied her. Irendue slid the steel between his teeth. Resting it there, she asked quietly, "Turnold, are you sure?"
"Of clorse hlyime shlure," he managed to say around the tip. "Do it!"
Irendue swallowed, blew him a kiss, closed her eyesand thrust the blade forward.
"Gods greet ye, Turnold," she said huskily, giving him the formal farewell. Her stomach heaved, and she almost flung the blade away in her haste to tear it free. When she opened her eyes again, she tried not to look at the limp thing that had been Turnold, but his blood was blazing up around him in flames of orange and red, and the web of white fires was dim, fading as she watched!
Irendue let out a tremulous breath and looked at Lareth. "CanCan you pull free?" she asked him, and watched his face tighten as he struggled. Cold fire flickered around his trembling limbs, but after a long, silent battle he gave up, sagging forward. His teeth were chattering in fear as he raised a gray face to her and said, "D-Do it."
She did. It was easier the second time... and as the apprentices' bodies slumped, the web of fire faded silently away, gone as if it had never been. Its passing was marked by the hollow clatter of Mortoth's bones bouncing on the floor.
With dull eyes, Irendue stared at his grinning skull. She went to her knees among the dead men, and the dust that had been the skin of her master eddied around her. The bloody sword was cold and heavy in her hands as the world dissolved in tears again....
The voice, when it came, was menacingly quiet. "What have you done?"
Irendue lifted her head and the sword together, glaring up through tangled hair at the other shapeshifter. He wore the form of a handsome, sandy-haired man with a mustache... but his eyes glittered dark and deadly, like those of a hawk.
"Freed us," Irendue gave him her fiercely whispered answer. "Freed us all."
"You shall die for this," Lorgyn said softly.
"I know," the woman replied calmly, embracing the sword as if it was a babe in her arms. "Kill me, then, and have done . .. monster."
Lorgyn showed his teeth in a smile. "Ah, no," he said in almost friendly tones. "Death need not be so fast and easy as all that. I shall use your sorcery to help me raise another gate... and your body to power it. Of course, that body need not be whole ..."
Still wearing that terrible grin, he advanced on her.
 Elven Court woods, Flamerule 30
"Die!" Belkram roared in fury, forgetting all thoughts of stealth and nearby wizards as he thrust his blade repeatedly into the shapeshifter's hairy, many-taloned bulk. If only it were still silver, he thought fiercely as he drove his steel home once more and struck something hard within, making the Malaugrym quiver.
It snarled and shrank away, and Belkram lunged after it, catching sight of Sharantyr's blade flashing on its far flank. The lady ranger's blade glistened as it rose and fell with a green-hued, translucent slime that must be the monster's blood.
"Right," Belkram snarled, "let's see all of your blood, beast! All of it!"
His blade thrust down to its hilt into the shifting bulk before him, and the Malaugrym recoiled, drawing flailing tentacles back into itself in struggling spasms of pain.
As it receded, it left Itharr behind, writhing weakly on the ground, his lifeblood drenching the moss and dead leaves around him. The Harper's mouth worked, and his eyes were blood-red; Belkram knew his friend was sorely wounded.
Delude yourself not, Belkram told himself sourly, he's dying.
Frantically he chopped and slashed at the shapeshifter, hearing Sharantyr's sobbing as she did the same thing. Her hair swirling around her, and she leapt high to throw all her weight behind her blade.
Something blazed with sudden fire behind her. A rolling wave offeree, like a wave she'd once waded through on the beaches of Sembia, took her behind the knees and flung her forward onto the Shadowmaster.
Gray flesh opened up around her, seeking to suck her down in and smother her. Sharantyr screamed in fear and fury, clawed her way clear, and wriggled off the beasts's far side.
She came up wild-eyed, with blade in hand and breast heavingand gaped in astonishment at a cold-eyed man in the robes of a Red Wizard, who stood over Itharr with staff in hand, glaring at a rainbow-hued radiance in the air around him.
"Must all spells go wild?" he snarled, leveling his staff in both hands as if it were a lance. Sparks raced down its length, and from its end burst brilliantly blue butterflies.
Belkram was still cutting at the heaving, roiling ten-tacled mass that was the Malaugrym, but trying at the same time to keep watch on this newcomer. The shapeshifter rose into a pillar of flesh, reached spade-shaped arms toward the Red Wizard, slimmed those arms into needlelike pincers ...
The Red Wizard said something soft and briefand fire seemed to be born within the Malaugrym, hurling its flesh and tentacles apart in an eruption of hissing steam.
The riven body fell back onto scorched moss, dwindling into something that was almost human. Something faceless and sprawled, which blazed with many small fires.
Shar faced the Red Wizard across their smoke and asked in a shaking voice, "Why ... why did you aid us?"
The wizard's cold eyes met hers, and Sharantyr was suddenly aware of how easily he could destroy them. Even with magic fraying wild, he bore several wands at his belt, something longer and more impressive sheathed like a sword at his hip, and the staff. Lights winked here and there along its carved length, and were answered by glows from among the many rings on his fingers. The Knight swallowed and stepped back, raising her sword. Belkram moved to her side, his blade also ready.
The Red Wizard smiled thinly. "Another day we might be foes to the death," he said in a voice strong with confidence and power. "But against such a one as this ..."
The sorcerer gestured down at the collapsing ashes that had been the Malaugrym, and went on, "Against such a one, all must stand togetheror no man in Faerun will know freedom, in the end."
He did something to his staff, and a glass vial appeared in the air above Sharantyr's hand. As it came to rest gently in her palm, he bowed to them both and turned away.
The flash of his departure lit up the rune graven in the glass. "A healing potion of the utmost power," Sharantyr said wonderingly. She went to her knees beside Itharr.
Blood was bubbling at his lips with every breath. She unstoppered the vial with infinite care and tipped it deep within, feeling his teeth tighten on the glass as a sudden spasm racked him.
"May the gods ascend to their rightful places, so that we can pray to them once more,17 she said feelingly, holding the vial firmly in place as Itharr bucked and writhed in Belkram's arms.
"May these accursed shapeshifters return to their rightful places," Belkram said to her, "so that we don't have to!"
"Gnorlgh," Itharr agreed weakly, from beneath them. "Gut thlisgh out ou mymouth!" He spat out the vial and struggled to sit up.
"Itharr!" Shar said joyfully, and embraced him, covering his lips with her own.
"Some men," Belkram said, watching her weep and meeting one of Itharr's eyes through her hair, "are far luckier than they have any right to be." Then he discovered something must have gotten into his own eye. The world suddenly glimmered and blurred and a sound large and raw rose in his throat....
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, early Midsummer Day
A crystal ball spun unheeded in a darkened room in the Tower of Mortoth. It flickered fitfully, then came to a sudden halt. As its inner glow died and it crashed to the privy chamber floor, a woman screamed nearby, high and despairing, and drowned out the sound of the crystal shattering. .. .
Tilverton, early Midsummer Day
A solitary lantern guttered outside the gates in the gray hour before dawn, but its light was enough to reveal the Purple Dragon emblazoned proudly on the wrinkled surcoat of a yawning sentry. The armsman came alert with a grunt and stepped back to lower the tip of his spear. Something small and sleek and dark slid around the gatepost.
He relaxed and gave it a grin. Surmalkin back from mousing... and irritated at a lack of success, by the look of him.
"How now, little one?" the armsman growled, bending over fondly. The cat gave him a warning, defiant look and minced past. The guard watched him go. Grinning, the man leaned on his spear. It must be a nice, soft life, being a cat.. ..
Something that was strong and swift instead of nice and soft smashed him across the back of the head. He stumbled forward, dazedand was still gathering wits and breath to shout for aid when the same something took him by the throat. It wrung his neck.
Blood ran from the armsman's nose and mouth as the Malaugrym propped him against the gatepost, hooking the shoulder straps of his armor upon the gate so he seemed to be leaning on it, lost in slumber.
After that, it was the work of a few breaths to scale the crumbling stone walls of the mansion that served the visiting high and mighty of Cormyr as home in Tilverton. From its high site, Lorgyn could see the lamps of the town winking below as his tentacles pulled him onto the balcony. He slid easily into human form ... or at least, the appearance of an elegant old Cor-myrean courtier he'd once seen, but with hands like large, flexible webbed paddlesakin to the hind feet of a beaver. He glided into the room.
The small blue glimmering of the lady's ward spun her awake in alarm.
But he was already bending low over the bed and whispering, "Good morning, my dear. Alambrara, isn't it?"
With one of those broad hands, he smothered whatever reply she might have made. His iron strength held her down until her sudden struggles subsided.
When she fell limp under him and the tiny lightnings of her collapsing ward had finished jittering through him, Lorgyn checked that she yet breathed. She was alive.
He nodded in satisfaction and set about stripping away the gems she wore at her ears, throat, and ankles. Who knew what sort of tracing magic could be linked to the jewelry of a powerful war wizard?
Her own bedclothessoft samite sheets, no less served admirably to gag and bind her, and he was gone from the room before the first light of dawn broke the eastern sky, low beyond the gray walls of Tilverton.
Breaths later, that wan, rosy light fell upon the wagon marked "Pendle's Fine Meats." Lorgyn unlatched its side door and thrust his bundle inside.
It was his wagon now, he thought as he melted into the heavy, grizzled form of Pendle once more and undid the sheet that had covered his prize from the eyes of any overly curious early risers.
Carefully drawing the door closed, he tore the sheet into strips and bound the war wizard Alambrara beside the fat Amnian, Gorluth the Great. He chuckled at the contrast between the shapely limbs of the Cormyrean, the fat and hairy little mage from Amn, and beyond him, Irendue's slim beauty. She was awake, her eyes blazing at him over the gag that was her only garment.
Lorgyn winked at her as he tightened a lashing and stood back to survey the three naked people bound to the meat bars.
The beginnings of a fine collection. If more folk collected wizards thus, there'd be less trouble all over Faerun, to be sure. Still, he'd be needing more if a new gate were to be a truly lasting thing. Two gates, with a hidden one only he knew about, would be even more secure.
Two mages that would be easily found were Jhessail and Ulistyl, Knights based in Shadowdale.
Giving Irendue a cheery wave and miming the biting off of a finger (he'd devoured her thumbs thus far, while punishing her, and planned to make of her fingers a long-lasting snack), Lorgyn replaced the padlock that only he had a key for, and went to the next wagon to rouse his men. He wondered briefly how they could sleep through each other's snoring.
"Up, lads," he said, shaking and slapping with brisk enthusiasm. " Tis time we set off for Shadowdale. I think we're all due for a little rest... and that's the place."
"Urggh," his cook said, "ye want dawnfry first?"
Lorgyn shook his head. The cook eyed him for a moment, then shrugged. Pendle never refused an early meal, even when it was only cold partridge from the night beforebut this was three days now....
Lorgyn gave the man's back a soft smile, and resolved to eliminate him as soon as the wagon was rumbling along the last stretch, between Shadowdale and the Tower of Mortoth. Yesroasted alive on a spit in his own oversalty brown sauce would be fitting, too.
The gate guards were almost as sleepy and surly as his own grumbling men, but at last they did their work with bars and chains. Pendle's three wagons rumbled out of Tilverton, the first farers forth onto the road.
Even the horses complained as their burdens groaned and bumped along east toward Shadowdale. Pendle's men rode all around them with ready weapons and sleepy faces, wondering what madness had taken their master this time. Pendle smiled back at them all, and more than one man shivered at the soft promise in that smile.
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
The glimmer of the scrying portal faded as it sank into the shadows, spinning away into nothingness. The face above its dissolution was a mask of wiggling, questing worms, but owned eyes that blazed like two lanterns of raging spellfire. Worms beneath them parted, and a calm voice said to the vast, long-empty chamber of the Castle of Shadows, "It is time to move at last. Let the hunt begin in earnest."
Faerun, Shadowdale, Midsummer Day
The horn had cried out peace and parley, so the guards at the bridge over the Ashaba had not roused the folk of the tower in swift earnest. Lord Mourngrym and Lady Shaerl had been in the morning room over a leisurely dawnfry when their heralds brought word of the coming of a special envoy of Cormyr, Sir Tantor Dauntinghorn.
Just as they were, the lord and lady hastened down to the sward outside the tower, intent on welcoming the envoy and seeing to the needs of his large escort of Purple Dragons and war wizards.
With a glint in his eye, Mourngrym assured the stiff and magnificently mustachioed Sir Tantor that he was not now standing in a holding of Zhentil Keep, and that all minds in the dale were free of insidious Zhentarim spells. He thanked Cormyr for its obvious intent to do battle with the Zhent evil, given the handsome array of battle might and ready sorcery, come so long and dusty a way from the Forest Kingdom to Shadowdalestill proudly independent. He added that he hoped there would always be warm friendship between Cormyr and Shadowdalecoupled with mutual respect for each other's views, aims, and continued freedom.
The lord of the dale invited all of Cormyr into the Tower of Ashaba for a highsun meal as he made himself and his lady available to Sir Tantor, to hear the most important of messages and views from the Forest Kingdom.
The invitation was accepted. Bells rang to bring servants flooding into the feast hall just steps ahead of the hard-striding armsmen of Cormyrand transform the already-bustling kitchens into a frantic whirlwind of steam and rushing folk and shouts.
"Pray come up to my morning room," Lord Mourngrym said to Sir Tantor. He led the way up the stairs. Shaerl followed beside the envoy's personal escort, a senior war wizard, as they ascended from the tumult below.
"If we can speak bald truth for a breath or two" Mourngrym added as they stepped into a room still aromatic with the odor of buttered bread, sausages, roast pheasant in sauce, melted cheese with mustard on biscuits, and the other dishes of a light dawnfry, and he drew the door firmly closed "pray tell me plainly why you're here."
Sir Tantor drew himself up to his full height and growled, "My lord, this is most irregular! While a free and open exchange of views is"
"Mourngrym," said the old, gaunt war wizard standing at ShaeiTs side, "I am Luthtor of Suzail, empowered to speak to you with the voice of Azoun and the candor of Vangerdahast. We're here to investigate rumors of Elminster's death, to make sure Zhentil Keep hasn't gained control of, or influence over, this daleand to strongly put forth the sixtieth or so offer from Azoun that Shadowdale become a protectorate of Cormyr."
"My thanks for your candor," Mouragrym said dryly. "Let us gently refuse Cormyr's kind offer once more, at once, so that no unpleasantness need follow between us. I want to be Azoun's friendbut not his subject. He cannot have me continue as the one if he must insist on the other."
"Well, if v/e're being quite candid," Sir Tantor growled, "what's to stop us from simply seizing Shadowdale?"
"Me," Shaerl said sweetly. They all turned to stare at her. "I have Azoun's personal promise," she told them, "that I'd have a free hand in Shadowdale, and that no Purple Dragon nor war wizard of fair Cormyr would meddle east of the Ashaba until I gave them leave to do so."
"My lady," Luthtor said sternly, "you know very well that Azoun's word held only so long as you were on your promised mission for the crown... a mission Vangerda-hast considers you abandoned on your wedding day, cleaving to this man"he bowed to Mourngrym "rather than your sworn duty."
"My lord," Shaerl said, her eyes gleaming with a dangerous light, "you are obviously unaware of the precise wording of Azoun's bidding and my promise, so I'll not argue the point with you. Be assured that if you move against us, Azoun will be foresworn."
"And if we know nothing of these ah, private words, and present the throne of Shadowdale to him anyway?" Sir Tantor huffed.
"It will be my duty to resist you," Mourngrym said, "and that of all the Knights of Myth Drannor."
"Their fame is not inconsiderable," the war wizard Luthtor granted. "But do you seriously think a handful of adventurers, however bold, can stand against the forces accompanying us? More than a dozen war wizards are watching over more than two hundred and sixty veteran armsmen in your feast hall right now."
"And just how long, Lord Luthtor," Shaerl asked sweetly, "do you think all of them would last against the Queen of Aglarond?"
Both Cormyreans paled slightly. The war wizard shrugged and asked, "And what evidence can you give us you can even contact her, let alone command her to battle at your bidding?"
"None," Shaerl said softly. "As with other armed endeavors in life, goodsirs, you'll just have to take that risk and find out the hard way. Or back down, as is far more prudent, and go home wondering for the rest of your lives if we were bluffing." She seemed to think of something, and added calmly, "Of course, the second way, you will have a 'rest of your lives' to wonder in."
*Trforeover," Mourngrym said pleasantly, "the second way preserves our friendship, whereas the first loses forever any hope Cormyr may have that Shadowdale will not ally with Hillsfar, say, or Sembia, against the Purple Dragon."
"I ..." Sir Tantor seemed unsure of how to proceed. He looked quickly to Luthtor.
The war wizard nodded, smiled, and said, "Perhaps, indeed, we've speculated with extreme imprudence. Permit me to tender our deepest apologies, and pass on to the other matters we mentioned, to whit*
"What?" The envoy had turned a dangerous shade of purple. He glared at Luthtor, and snarled, "You're just going toback down? Abandon our mission, just like that? Well, be advised that my first recommendation, upon seeing Vangerdahast at our return, will be to repl"
"Enough of this," Shaerl snapped in tones that brought the envoy to instant silence. "Why don't we involve Azoun and Vangy in this discussion directly? I'd like to hear just what they intend." She held up one finger, and turned a ring upon it so that its black sapphire caught the light. It winked with a blue-white radiance as she stroked itand both Cormyreans stared at it in surprise.
Like two coldly leveled spears, Shaerl's eyes caught those of the war wizard. "Shall I speak to them myself, Lordor will Vangy stop merely listening through you, and have the grace to introduce himself?"
Sir Tantor stared again at the war wizard, and Mourngrym looked as if he were hiding a smile.
Luthtor sat very still, his eyes suddenly older and sadder than they had been. When he spoke, his voice was deeper and rougher than before. "Well played, li"
Suddenly the scene before them melted away into swirling mists of gold and gray, and left the two Malaugrym staring at the fetid insides of a dungeon.
"By the blood of Malaug!" Argast snarled, "is every spell you cast going to twist wild?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "I've another." He strode across the cavern and muttered an incantation, raising his hands to trace intricate gestures. The golden mists returned. They swirled around him for a momentand then turned into bunches of grapes and fell.
Argast watched the fruit splatter on the stone floor and cast a quick look behind him. The torch in its sconce blazed as before, and there was no watching helmed head nor shout of alarm. They were alone in the dungeons of the tower, on the worst guard duty one could draw... unless one were really a Malaugrym, and wanted a little privacy for some spell-casting.
That is, if any spell would work. Amdramnar looked up from the grapes and muttered, "We don't have time to study that spell againhalf their talkingll be done before we're ready."
Argast growled in slow anger, and said, "Then it's time for you to take the shape of two guards for a while."
Amdramnar lifted a questioning eyebrow. His fellow Malaugrym was already blurring and dwindling... until a rat blinked at him, winked once, and then turned to dash away into the darkness.
Amdramnar sighed, sat down, and stretched into the semblance of two bored guards sitting together on a crate, down here in the storage cavern. He arranged weapons and armor to conceal the place at the thighs where the two bodies were joined, and settled down to wait, hoping Argast wasn't making a fatal mistake.
18
A Gathering in Shadoojdale
From the dungeons, old and dusty rat holes led up to the pantry. In the confusion of all the cooks and scullery maids working in frantic haste and doors everywhere propped open to keep the heat down, the rat was able to streak through the kitchens and outside. The yard behind the tower was crowded with youngsters peeling potatoes and carting away greens, but no one noticed a rodent scuttling around the corner, into the tall grass.
In a trice, the rat became a pigeon, and ascended hi a flutter of wings to an open tower window.
The casement gave in to the end of a hall lined with tapestries, paintings, and closed doors. At the far end of the corridor, where it opened out into a meeting with other passages, daylight gleamed on the armor of a tower guard. The guard turned his head as the pigeon's wings blocked the sunlight, but Argast hastily landed on the windowsill. The guard gave the pigeon a glance, then looked away again.
It was sheer mischance that he yawned and looked back down the hall as the pigeon was rising up into a man.
"Hold!" the guard bellowed, leveling his spear as he broke into a charge.
Argast snarled in disgust and ducked behind the nearest tapestry, shifting shape as fast as he could.
All too soon a spear point thrust through the hanging, its point skittering along the stone wallbut the Malaugrym had shrunk down into a wadded mass by the floor to watch the spear strike sparks overhead. He surged upright as it withdrew. As he'd expected, it reappeared more cautiously, drawing the hanging aside. By then he was ready.
The guard found himself blinking at a buxom, very bare female... the most beautiful woman he'd ever seen. He swallowed as she smiled at him, and blinked again as she held out her arms, beckoning....
An inconspicuous taloned tentacle that had snaked across the floor rose up behind his head, reached around, and tore his face off.
Argast stared down at the twisted, blood-spattered body, satisfied the death had made little noise. But what now? If he posed as the guard, he'd be attacked if he left his post and was seen listening at doors... and this body would be found soon enough. He positioned it against the wall behind the tapestry, using the spear as a prop, but anyone who even glanced into the passage was sure to see the bulge... and the blood all over the floor.
He shrugged then, and became a rat again. They were only humans, after all....
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Midsummer Day
Khelben looked up from his work, startled, as Laeral stiffened and laid a hand on his arm. "Malaugrym!" she snapped, eyes closed, and clutched at her forehead, listening to an inner voice. "Jhessail's found a guard murdered in the tower and suspects Malaugrym did the killing. He was torn by talons on an upper floor, where no beast could reach unseen and no strong magic has been worked lately...."
The sending ended, and Laeral raised her head, her eyes grave.
"Aye, it would be in Shadowdale," Khelben said gloomily, reaching out to stroke her long, curly silver hair. "Have you never noticed: nothing much in Faerun happens anywhere else."
Laeral gave him a tight smile, but said nothing. She was already bustling about the room, gathering cloaks, wands, and boots.
Khelben stared down at his scribblings and litter of material components, and admitted to himself what they both already knew: his Malaugrym spell was going nowhere, right speedily. He pushed back from the table and sprang to his feet. "I'm not trusting teleporting in this, mind," the Blackstaff told his lady irritably.
"I know," she replied brightly. That's why I'm rushing about gathering things instead of being there already." She held out a wand.
Khelben stared down at it for a long, silent breath. Then the corners of his mouth curled up slightly, and he took it from her. Stepping into the boots she was holding ready, he took both their cloaks over his arm, strode without pause to the door, and held it wide. Laeral gave him a twinkling smile and brushed his cheek with a kiss as she went out.
One of their younger, newer apprentices, Paershym Woodstoke of Neverwinter, was trotting excitedly along a passage, his head down and a precious spell tome clutched in his hands. Its covers, two polished plates of ever-bright silver, flashed suddenly as the lord and lady mage of Waterdeep stepped out of a side door, spilling light into the dim hallway. They leapt across the passage like a pair of pranksome apprentices. With a softly spoken password, they opened the door of a closet that had to be tiny, crunched between two flanking rooms, and crowded into it together, giggling. 
Lady Laeral winked at Paershym just before the door closed behind herleaving the apprentice, who'd halted to gape in astonishment, quite alone in the passage. He blushed a brilliant crimson and stared in disbelief at the closed door of the tiny closet. Slowly, almost reluctantly, he stole up to it and tried the handle. It was locked.
He turned away feeling almost relievedand stiffened as the doorknob behind him emitted a faint, girlish giggle.
Clutching the book very firmly, he hurried away, wondering how his father would take the news if he wrote a letter home explaining that he'd changed his mind about becoming a wizard....
In a chamber deep within Twilight Hall, a lady laughed. "We've more than earned this, beloved," she purred to the person in the heart of the canopied bed. His reply was a wordless growl that left her giggling until the closet door beside the bed burst open.
"Please excuse the intrusion," the lord mage of Waterdeep said gravely to the astonished Harper couple as he marched briskly across the room to the closed door of another closet.
Laeral mouthed, "Sorry," to the shocked faces above the covers, waved a farewell, and stepped into the closet behind Khelben.
There were a lot of dusty cloaks inside, and she sneezed more than once before Khelben found the catch on the secret door and led her on into a lightless passage that zigged, zagged, and opened into the back of yet another closet.
As the Blackstaff briskly opened the closet door, they saw a bored Harper guard sitting in the room beyond, sharpening his blade. No intruders ever got this far, after all, and . ..
 The guard sprang up as the wizards strode into the room. He waved his sword menacingly. "Halt, by the silver Harp and the blood spilled for it!" he charged sternlybut the two mages were already past him, heading for one of the doors across the room.
The Harper gaped. "But you'reyou're Khelben!"
The archwizard sighed. "Has the disguise spell failed again? Oh, dear ..." He rolled his eyes theatrically.
Laeral chimed in breathlessly, "We've tried everything...."
As she spread her hands in despair, Khelben touched the door in a certain spotand it flared into a blinding glow. The Harper threw up his hand to shield his eyes, just in time to see the two mages fade away....
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
In a room where shadows were rarely still, two tenta-cled things met, exchanged grunts of recognition, and rose into manlike forms.
"It's even worse than I'd thought," Hulurran said without preamble or greeting. "Since Dhalgrave was slain and the intruders first came, over sixty of the kin have perished or disappeared... perhaps as many as seventy!"
"Seventy!" Gathran sighed gloomily. "Will we live to see the House of Malaug dwindle to nothing, and the shadowbeasts finally slither in to tear the last few of us apart?"
Hulurran shrugged. There's just one good thing," he said. "Milhvar was working on a cloak that shielded him from the prying magics of the mages of Faerun... a 'cloak of shadows,' he called it in his notes. If any-thing's befallen them, the secret of its making is gone with him."
"You saw his notes?" Gathran did not bother to hide his astonishment.
Hulurran smiled. "Milhvar was so old that he sometimes forgot that others of us have seen just as many years.... He hid some of his notesand the finished cloak; I saw him testing itin a hideaway Anduthil created for safe storage. Since Anduthil's passing, I believe he thought only he remembered its existence." He turned slightly, and made a gesture. "It's right here," he added, "and"
Hulurran fell abruptly silent. Gathran peered over his shoulder to see why. The hideaway was a small room with a cot, a chair, a desk, and a chamberpot. A few blank scraps of parchment were strewn on the desk, but the cotwhere his companion was probing emptinesswas quite bare. " Twas right here," Hulurran said, frowning, "and he wasn't wearing it when he met his endI saw him die."
"Then where is it?" Their eyes met and held in silence for a long while.
Hulurran sighed. "Let us hope one of us is wearing it in Faerun right now."
"A prudent one of us," Gathran agreed.
They both sighed then, and left that place.
When the world stopped whirling, they were sitting together on a bench in Shadowdale, with Elminster's Tower rising crookedly in front of themand a startled guard scrambling up from where he'd been lounging on the bench beside them. He swung his gleaming pike down.
Khelben calmly struck it aside and twisted it out of the armsman's hands.
Laeral said mildly, "Perhaps it's the clothes we're wearing...."
"With all due respect, sir merchant," the guardcap-tain said firmly, "no one brings wagons into Shadow-dale without our looking inside them."
The paunchy, unshaven merchant glared at him. "Aye, I know your sort of searching. What's the point o' my coming all the way from fair Cormyr"one of his men gave him a strange look, and the guardcaptain almost smiled"if you steal half my stock, eh? Pendle's Fine Meats are known from Suzail to Selgaunt, and I'll be damned by all the gods if I let some uniformed thugs in a backwater dale rob me of what I've worked so hard for!"
"Then turn your wagons about, merchant, and go around Shadowdale," the guardcaptain said softly, his hand on his sword.
"This one's open, sir," one of the guards spoke out, pointing at the second wagon back. Without taking his eyes from the guardcaptain, Pendle grew a tentacle thirty feet long that snapped like a lash around the armsman's throat.
There was a collective gasp of horror and fear from men on both sides of the roadblock. The guardcaptain stared hard at Pendle as his sword flashed out. "What are you?" he asked, white to the lips.
Lorgyn smiled a wintry smile at him as two tentacles smashed the man's sword away, and a third rose with a bony spear to stab him in one eye. "I wondered when you'd get around to asking that," he said softly.
Men were screaming on all sides now. There was a general rush from the wagons into the woods. Pendle's outriders turned their horses and spurred westward as fast as the horses would go.
The Malaugrym reached out and calmly slew another man, and another, reaching always for those trying to flee or raising horns to arouse the dale. Some of the guards got their bows out, and arrows hissed and hummed. Lorgyn ignored them as he went on killing.
By the time all the guards were dead, lying twisted and broken in the road around him, the Malaugrym was feathered with many arrows. Heedless of the blood streaming from him in a dozen places, Lorgyn shifted to oxen form to drag the lead wagon aside; its draft horses had taken even more arrows than he had, and lay dead in the traces.
The wagon of wizards was all that mattered now. Lorgyn led the frightened horses past all the blood, into Shadowdale. The time for skulking was past... now, let all in Faerun beware the Malaugrym, and cringe in fear!
"There it is again," Belkram said, pointing at Sharan-tyr's pack. "You'd better see what it is!"
The lady ranger set down her pack with more haste than grace, and drew her sword.
"I'll open it," Belkram offered, "and you keep blade ready, right?"
She nodded, and Itharr stood back to keep watch on the woods around as Shar bent over her pack. Something had quivered in its depths ... at least twice now. Belkram was cautiously turning out the kindling, her candles, her spare boots and undershift, her gloves... "There!"
Two blades flashed downto hover above a small cloth bundle. "Lhaeo was holding that before we left," Shar said slowly. "What is it? And why would he put it in my pack?"
The tip of Belkram's blade touched it very cautiously. Then the ranger grinned, reached over, and unwrapped it, revealinga stone.
A ghostly vapor swirled up from it as it said, "Finally! Draw together, all of you, and bide here until I return I only hope we're not too late!"
Open-mouthed, the three rangers watched Sylune of Shadowdale fly off through the trees.
"She can leave her stone?"
"Storm or Lhaeo must have worked some magic," Bel-kram said, grunting as he reached beyond comfort's stretch to pluck up Shar's gloves. "Let's get you packed again," he said. "When a mage tells you to stay together, she usually means it's teleport time."
Itharr nodded agreementthen they all gaped again as the air shimmered. The Red Wizard was standing before them again, Sylune's head floating above his open palm. He gave the three a curt nod of greeting.
The Witch of Shadowdale asked crisply, "Have we a bargain, then?"
Orth Lantar nodded again. "We do,"
"Right. Know then that the Lost Ring of Blaestarn lies beneath the third flagstone south of the unicorn fountain, in the house where you've been searching; the white dragon Glandananglar is no more, and her treasure lies under her bones in a cave on the east side of Mount Ahaeraghits mouth is covered by an illusion, but lies below the tallest horn; and the ioun stones of Thavilar Halcontar are buried a long pace to the south of the duskwood tree in the northwestern corner of his garden. I'll tell you where the rest of the treasures lie after you've sent these three safely to Shadowdale."
The Red Wizard bowed. "It will be my pleasure to so serve." He raised his hands and began, and the three rangers saw a blue-white radiance stream from Sylune to surround his head and shoulders, steadying him against the magic twisting wild.
Soberly and carefully the Red Wizard worked a mass teleport spell, and the world began to whirl into blue-white mists.
"Holy Mystra, aid us," the three rangers heard Sylune say as the magic took effect.
Then the floating head of the Witch of Shadowdale gasped, and her ghostly eyes widened. "Wh-Who are you?"
"Midnight," came the reply, echoing in all their heads.
Sudden force flooded into Sylune; her fading spectral form flickered, and then grew strong and bright. "But you can call me Mystrafor so I am, henceforth."
Sylune gaped at a face only she could seeand beside her, the Red Wizard went to his knees, babbling a prayer.
He had not prayed to the Lady of All Mysteries since he'd been a young apprentice, and that had been very long ago.
The world danced, and the three rangers suddenly found themselves standing at the crossroads by the Old Skull Inn in Shadowdale, with startled armsmen and villagers staring at them from all sides.
They peered around, wondering why Sylun6 had been so suddenly adamant that they be here, now.
"Is that the Blackstaff?" Itharr asked, eyes wide. He pointed toward Elminster's Tower.
Belkram peered. "AyeI spoke to him once, and to Laeral several times; that's her, too, beside him."
Khelben Arunsun was casting a spellor rather, miscasting it. A shower of blue furry jungle plants abruptly rained down around him. He cursed loudly, like any merchant who's made a mistake, and strode toward the road. Two laborers, who were walking along it with heavy hods on their shoulders, looked back.
They let the hods fall, and boiled up into things out of nightmare.
A small forest of tentacles reached for folk all around, and the street became a chaos of screaming, fleeing people, with armsmen trying to wade through them. Tentacles grew many-fanged mouths and bit down mercilessly.
"Malaugrym," the three rangers shouted, breaking into a run.
Laeral hurled a spelland the two monsters were girt with an amber radiance, out of which darted dozens of butterflies.
Laeral stared in disgust at the clouds of insects, unbelted her robe, and let it fall to the turf behind her. Beneath it she wore a short kirtle bristling with daggers. Drawing one in either hand, she raced across the meadow toward the road, Khelben lumbering along beside her.
Horns were ringing out from the Tower of Ashaba, and armored men were streaming from its gatesmen who wore the Purple Dragon of Cormyr.
The Malaugrym were undulating along the road toward the three rangers. As the three hefted their blades and eyed reaching tentacles, they heard the deep, bubbling voice of one tentacled monster ask, "Argast, what's that?"
They all stared at what was rising up from the road in front of the towera gigantic black dragon, clutching a wagon in its claws!
"By all the blinded, crawling gods ..." Shar cursed in disbelief, watching the dragon spread its great wings. One beat sent it over the meadow, where it set the wagon down as tenderly as a newly laid egg. It banked and roared down at the crossroads, jaws gaping....
Jhessail looked up sharply as a roar split the air outside. "What was that?" she snapped.
Illistyl beat her to the window. "Gods!" she gasped. "A dragon!"
Jhessail thrust her head past her apprentice's shoulder and glared out. "Out of nowhere? Impossible!"
She snatched something out of her bodice and tugged. A fine gold chain parted, and Jhessail held up a pendant that was shaped like a sphere, with windows enclosing a smaller windowed sphereand another, and yet another.
Illistyl stared at it. Elminster had given her that, and she'd never said what it was for. .. ,
Jhessail thrust it out the window and whispered a single wordand the pendant was gone in a flash of spreading light that all but blinded them both.
The swooping dragon flashed with that same light, and was suddenly no huge black scaled wynn at all, but a small, manlike thing trailing tentacles as it fell from the sky.
Laeral leapt desperately out of the way as the twisting, changing thing crashed to earth.
Both Malaugrym hissed, "Lorgyn!"
Around the cursing lord mage of Waterdeep, spells were going awry in a continuous swirl of radiances and odd manifestations. Laeral scrambled through a shower of green lizards, the snapping fangs of Malaugrym tentacles close behind her.
"Gods," Sharantyr said, her face paling as the three rangers charged together, pounding along the road toward the two gigantic snake-things that were writhing and snapping in earnest now, crushing guards and sweeping horses and men into the air with their lashing tails, "Are we really going into that"?"
"Of course," Belkram shouted merrily. "We're reckless, crazed heroes, remember?"
"More than that," Itharr bellowed, "we're the Rangers Three!"
"The Rangers Three!" they shouted in chorus as their blades struck home.
The world rapidly became a place of constant slashing and hacking, with Malaugrym tentacles smashing and slapping from everywhere as armsmen shouted and died.
The lady mage of Waterdeep was stabbing with silver-bladed daggers, and Malaugrym tentacles were shriveling at their touch or cringing away before her. To avoid the bite of silver blades, the monsters began to hurl hapless armsmen and villagers at her, seeking to crush or suffocate her beneath broken bodies. Khelben stood over Laeral, the broken haft of a pike in his hands, trying to protect his lady against too many stabbing tentacles.
An annsman was flung through the air, his broken limbs flailing like smashed twigs. Sharantyr ducked under him, slashed aside one last tentacle, and drew back her blade to plunge it deep into one gigantic yellow Malaugrym eye.
Out of the eye burst Amdramnar's face, pleading: "Stay your blade, Sharantyr! Know that I love you"
Shar gazed at the Malaugrym in astonished horror, blade raised. She never saw the scorpionlike tail that rose behind her, lifting from a broken thing that had once been a dragon.
The bony spur stabbed downand burst out through the lady ranger's breast in a rain of blood.
Itharr and Belkram shrieked in horror and went mad with their blades, screaming and stabbing in all directions.
The lady ranger stiffened, and blood sprayed from her sagging lips.
A great roar of anguish rose over the fray as the monster that was Amdramnar cried, "No! Lorgyn, you fool! She was to be my mate! SharantyrF
Storm Silverhand was almost home from patrol now, and contentment welled up within her. The familiar woods rose green and deep around her. She did not hurry. Her boots followed trails she hadn't walked in a while, and chances to relax were few enough, these days.
A roaring sound rose into the air ahead, muffled by the trees. Storm frowned and stopped to listen. Were those shouts? Yes!
Shadowdale must t* under attack! With a soft curse, the Bard of Shadowdale drew her blade and broke into a trot, weaving through the trees as quickly as she could.
Laeral darted through a dancing chaos of tentacles, desperately stammering a healing spell. Too late.
The rearing tail of the Malaugrym thrust the limp lady ranger high into the air, then smashed her into the dust of the road. Again it rose, Sharantyr dangling, and again flung her down.
Itharr and Belkram all but clawed their way through a forest of writhing tentacles to get at that tail.
A tentacle struck Laeral. She rolled in the dust herself, slashing her way free and scrambling upto find the air in front of her shimmering! She drew back her hand to hurl a spell of searing destruction . ..
But two white-faced women in robes appeared Knights of Myth Drannor. They raised their hands and snapped out incantations. Their magic twisted wild as they hurled it, and the tentacles swept down at them, too....
"Here!" Laeral called. She tossed two of her silver-bladed daggers to the Knightswho fielded them expertly, waved in thanks, and set to work.
The Malaugrym Amdramnar was writhing under the blades of the two furious Harper rangers, and the other onethe one he'd called Argastwas shrinking into a xornlike beast with many massive clawed arms instead of tentacles. The shifting body of Argast was flickering with strange magics as Khelben Blackstaff struggled to control spell after spell hurled at the shapeshifter.
Itharr was weeping incoherently now. He stood hip-deep in a gory hole he'd hacked in Amdramnar, and stabbed down endlessly.
None of the armsmen of Connyr saw Storm Silver-hand burst out of the trees, running hard, but they all saw her swarm up the scorpionlike third Malaugrym and plunge her sword deep into ffne of its eyes. It shuddered and convulsed madly under her, and she grimly clung to it as she tumbled to the ground, one arm around Sharantyr's broken body.
"Burn it! Burn the things with oil!" she bellowed at the armsmen. She found her feet amid writhing ropes of shapeshifting fleshropes that rose to fling Khelben and Belkram together in a helpless tangle into the gathered armsmen.
The soldiers stared at Storm; who was this woman? An old woman staring at the fray from the door of the Old Skull suddenly tossed away her tankard, plucked down one of the lanterns from beside the inn door, and flung it.
It shattered, spilling oil down the tentacled bulk of Amdramnarand Illistyl murmured the simplest fire spell she knew.
Flames flared. The oil caught, boiling up with a roar. The Malaugrym convulsed and reared, shrieking, and the air was suddenly full of oil as every armsman scrambled to find and fling any lamps they could.
The Malaugrym shrieked as flames rose around them, and through the growing roar of the flames, Belkram cried, "Khelben! Can't you do something for Shar?"
He practically dragged the lord mage of Waterdeep to his feet. Khelben blinked at him, then said grimly, "Erehwell, 111 try."
The archwizard looked at Sharantyr's sprawled body and raised his hands to cast a spellonly to pitch forward, falling on his face in the dirt.
Belkram stared at the man whose pike had struck Khelben down from behind: a warrior of Cormyr, who smiled coldly, shivered slightly for an instant... and became someone else.
Someone who wore doomstars at his wrist, and answered to the name of Dhalgrave.
19 We, the Rangers Three
Blue stones flashed and pulsed, spitting out beams that cut the air to strike Laeral and Storm. The two silver-haired women stiffened as blue fire raged around themand then fell limply to the ground, their eyes dark.
"With the Chosen out of the way," Dhalgrave said almost pleasantly, "I can really enjoy what I came for."
The Shadowmaster High ignored an armsman's sword that thrust through him, and when another warrior thrust a torch in his face, he grew a bone spur and casually stabbed the man through the face. All the while wearing that deadly smile, the senior Malaugrym advanced leisurely toward the weary, panting rangers.
Belkram and Itharr watched him come; they grimly stood their ground, leaning on battered blades. The three Malaugrym burned behind them, and from the flickering flames a weak voice called, "Shadowmaster High! Aid, please, in the name of Malaug! I'm burning! Great Dhalgrave, aid me!"
Dhalgrave never took his eyes from the two rangers, and never paused in his slow, menacing advance. Ar-gast soon fell silent... and joined Amdramnar and Lorgyn in death.
 Deep in the Castle of Shadows, in a place where thinking shadows glided, was a grotto. At its heart were two stone seats that faced each other in the bone-white glow. On one of them, something blazed briefly, then burst.
A hand promptly reached down out of darkness to pick up the largest of the fragments and sweep the seat clean , . . and a soft chuckle echoed through the grotto.
Dhalgrave stopped just beyond the reach of the two weary rangers and smiled a gloating smile at the fearful warriors, noting many Purple Dragon surcoats. "All the way from Cormyr, just to die?" he asked in mock sorrow, shaking his head.
From among the warriors, lightning lashed at the Malaugrym, and on his other flank something that looked like a white mist driven by churning human bones rose and drifted speedily toward him.
Dhalgrave simply watched those deaths come for him. The spells faded away as they reached him, and he sketched a mocking bow.
"My thanks, Ladies," he said. "Jhessail and Illistyl, isn't it?" He gestured lazily down at himself. "Unfortunately for your valiant endeavors, I wear a cloak of shadows that wards all your spells... and hides me even from the Chosen. I had to 'die' for a time to get it, but watching my underlings scramble to try to take my throne was richly entertaining compensation."
The doomstars lashed out again, and four armsmen were hurled back against their fellows, their bodies trailing blue fire. Blades fell from their hands... blades that shone with silver. Sir Tantor Dauntinghorn peered at the dead and trembled with anger, reaching for his own blade.
"No, envoy, keep your life," the Malaugrym told him. "I shall need your services to inform Azoun that the
Purple Dragon throne is mine now. My realm will take in Sembia, too, of course... but you won't be bored. Ill be sending all the brave warriors of both lands against Zhentil Keepand none of you shall rest, nor fail me, until that city and all its folk are eradicated."
He took another slow pace forward. "Before all of that, however, I must attend to the business that brought all of the blood of Malaug lately to Faerun ... a little matter of revenge."
Dhalgrave looked at Belkram and Itharr and smiled again. "Your deaths will be slow," he said softly, "very slow." A frown crossed the handsome human face he wore, and he asked the world at large, "I wonder if I can transform them to mushrooms, as that woman did?"
He raised his hands slowly, nodding in sudden satisfaction, and said, "Yes!"
The doomstars hummed, dimmed, and grew still. The Malaugrym began the gestures of a spelland the two Harper rangers erupted into a last desperate charge, swinging their blades as they came.
The cloak Dhalgrave wore spoke.
"Yes, indeed," it agreed, and two gnarled old hands grew out of it on the shapeshifter's flanks, and dug fingers deep into Dhalgravefingers that blazed with spellfire!
The Malaugrym screamed. His hands faltered, the doomstars winking wildly, and the hands literally tore him apart.
Dhalgrave convulsed, struggling to throw out a tentacle here and an eyestalk there amid the spreading spellfireand as the two Harpers came to hasty halts, blades held ready, the Malaugrym sported the long, jagged jaws of a crocodile for just a moment... before collapsing into a swirling cloud of ash. What remained was a raging, man-high column of spellfire, with the hands that had slain Dhalgrave protruding from it.
The doomstars spun and winked by themselves in midair for a breath, then drifted obediently into one of those old, waiting hands.
As they settled, all of the spellfire seemed to roar down into themand burst in a flash that made unwary men cry out and clutch at their eyes.
Those stricken did not see the beams that lanced out from the destruction of the doomstars to touch Storm, Laeral, and Khelben, and awaken them to vibrant life.
As the Bard of Shadowdale came unsteadily to her feet and reached down to help her sister up, a familiar voice said disgustedly, "Do I have to do everything myself, look ye?"
"Elminster!" Laeral cried delightedly.
The Old Mage puffed one last time on his pipe before calmly tapping out its coals onto the ash that had been the Shadowmaster High.
"But youyou died!" Mourngrym said, laughing, as he shouldered through the armsmen, Shaerl at his side.
"Reports of my death," the Old Mage said solemnly, "have beenahemgreatly exaggerated."
The scrying portal shook as Hulurran's rage almost ended his control over it. "No!" he snarled, but the other two who stood in the shadows with him kept silent. One of them laid a silent tentacle against his cheek for a moment.
After they'd stood staring into Faerun for a long time, Gathran stirred.
"If we could get that cloak," he began, "we"
He fell silent again as, below, Elminster stirred the ashes, held up a tattered scrapand firmly burned it to nothingness with a jet of spellfire from his finger.
"By the blazing blood of Malaug," Hulurran raged in a voice that trembled with emotion, "111 never rest un"
"Hold your wind!" snapped the youngest and smallest of the Malaugrym. "This disaster is born directly of reckless overconfidence... even on my father's part."
Huerbara's eyes blazed with resolve as she scattered the scrying portal with one slim tentacle. "We must not actwe must never actagainst folk of Faerun until we are strong, and prepared... even for the unexpected. Revenge can be won, yes... but it may take years. We must rebuild the House of Malaug first. To do it, 111 need your help."
"You?" Hulurran asked, slack-jawed in disbelief.
Gathran, however, said quietly, "Command me, daughter of Ahorga."
Huerbara nodded to him before turning to the elder shapeshifter. "Are you with me also, Hulurran of the Winds?" The query was soft with menace.
After a long silence, Hulurran nodded. "Aye. Aye, you have fire enough to be Shadowmaster High. I am yours." He turned to meet her gaze squarely, and added, "But we must move very carefully, lest our house be torn apart by strife between you and rivals for the throne."
"Teach me, then," Huerbara said to them both, gliding nearer, "how to move very carefully...."
"Lady, we will," they agreed in chorus, and three sets of eager tentacles met and entwined.
The folk in Shadowdale fortunate enough to survive the events of that morning had seen wonder upon wonder... but there were still gasps and mutterings and a shrinking back as a ghostly, silver-haired head came floating over the grass. Gawking dalefolk and weary Cormyreans alike melted out of its path, and stared at the three naked, bedraggled folk who followed it.
"It seems one of the Malaugrym was collecting wizards," Sylun6 told Elminster. "And as both you and Mystra seem to be back with us, we'd best be using these three to bring Sharantyr back."
The Old Mage stared searchingly at the short, fat man and the two women, and they all nodded their agreement. Jhessail and Illistyl pushed through the crowd, and Sir Tantor was jostled aside by Lord Luth-tor, firmly leading a line of war wizards.
"What did you say?" Itharr hissed to Sylune.
Belkram put an arm around his shoulder. Weeping, the rangers watched Khelben, Laeral, and even Storm join the circle of wizards. The mages joined hands around Sharantyr's broken body, then looked to the Old Mage.
Elminster said softly, "Do it."
For a breath or two, it seemed nothing was happening. In silence the wizards stood, unmoving, as warriors craned their necks to look. Next came gasps here and there as folk noticed the radiance silently forming in the air above the circle. Small motes of light twinkled, grew, and shone more brightly. Swiftly the light swelled until a great sphere of white radiance blazed above the wizards.
They heard Elminster and Khelben grunt in unisonand a shaft of light stabbed down from the sphere to strike the still form of Sharantyr.
The wizards trembled, and on the bodies of the three unclad mages the watchers could see sweat streaming. The wizards strained as the beam slowly rose from the ground, taking the lady ranger's body with it.
Through their tears the two Harpers held each other, wild hope leaping within them, and saw the body of their lady disappear into the light.
One of the war wizards cried out, and slumped over, but Luthtor firmly held one of his hands and Irendue clung like grim death to the other, and the circle was not broken. The mages wavered. More than one sagged to his knees, but held fast to the hands of the chain.
Then a great, collective gasp went up from them, the light faded, and out of its heart something sprang.
Something soft and shapely and wholeand alive!
Sharantyr fell from the sky as naked as the day she as born, and something seemed to boost her abruptly sidewaysof all the assembly, only Mourngrym saw El-minster's momentary grinin her fall, so that she landed, heavily, atop Belkram.
He went to the ground with a startled "Whumpf!" A moment later, Itharr, Belkram, and Sharantyr were rolling over and over in a happy embrace, weeping and kissing and laughing for joy.
Khelben looked down at them and frowned. "Must they?" he complained to his lady. "And her without a stitch on, too!"
Laeral grinned happily up at the lord mage of Water-deep through the sweat glistening on her faceand bowled him over with her own sudden embrace.
"Whumpf!" Khelben said as he hit the ground. "Get off!" he shouted when he had breath enough to speak again. Grinning faces of armsmen and dalefolk surrounded him. "I said get offT
Shadowdale, Midsummer Night
The fire spat sparks in the kitchen hearth, and Sharantyr put her bare feet up on Storm's kitchen table, crossed one shapely ankle over the other, and sighed in satisfaction. A huge tankard of strong home brew was ready at her elbow, and she was leaning back against Belkram. Itharr smiled and reached out a hand to stroke her foot.
"Ann," Sharantyr said happily, "all this, and we're done with the Malaugrym for now, too!"
"We are," Storm agreed. "Elminster rode the shadows through their castle this afternoon, and tells me it is a place of confusion and back-stabbing disorder. Only three of them know what befell here, and plan any sort of revenge."
"Oh, joy," Belkram said, raising his tankard.
 "Oh, joy, indeed," Storm said with a smile, turning from her cooking cauldron and crossing her arms. Itharr decided not to tell her that her ladle had decided to drip all down her hip. "That means, Harpers bold," she continued briskly, "that it's time for your next assignment."
Belkram choked, and brought his tankard down onto the table with a crash as he sputtered and coughed. There were titters from some of the other Knights at the table.
"Which is?" Itharr asked, giving his companion an amused look.
Storm noticed the spill, ran a finger up her hip, and licked it. "Aid embattled Randal Morn in Daggerdale," she told her ladle.
"A simple matter," Belkram said with airy dignity.
"Well, after battling Malaugrym, aye," Mourngrym agreed, "but you'll no doubt have the lord-devouring Sir Tantor and Luthtor's war wizards to contend with." Shaerl dealt her lord's shoulder a mock blow, and he put an arm around her with a chuckle.
"Does this mean your students are taught, and they'll be leaving Shadowdale?" Sharantyr asked quietly.
Storm nodded. "It does."
Sharantyr swung her feet down from the table and stood up. "Then I have to tell all of you something." She looked around the table at the assembled Knights, from Florin and Dove at one end to Jhessail and her new apprentice, the shyly silent Irendue, at the other. "Whether it costs me my place among you or not, I will go with Belkram and Itharr... because"her voice sank almost to a whisper, but she stared across the room at Elminster's encouraging smile, where he sat in a dark corner, and continued steadily"I can't bear to be parted from them."
And as the room erupted with cries of "Well said!" "Of course!" and "A Knight forever, wherever you go!" the tears came.
Sharantyr leaned on the table and wept until two pairs of strong arms went around her, and Belkram and Itharr said into her ears in unison, "The Rangers Threeforever!"
The crystal ball glimmered, and Laeral turned away from it with misty eyes and a sigh of satisfaction. "She did the right thing," the lady mage of Waterdeep told Khelben happily. "She's following her heart."
"That's nice," Khelben said absently, his attention deep in a spell tome. Laeral looked at him, shook her head fondly, and grinned impishly as she rose.
Three gliding steps brought her to the table, and a little jump and turn brought her behind down firmly atop the open book, even before her arms went around her man in a fierce embrace.
She fondly kissed the balding pate of the lord mage of Waterdeep, and felt his muffled roar as he snarled into her bosom, "Get off! I said, get off!"
It was very late when the floating, disembodied head said to Elminster, "You promised me another body of my own, Old Mage."
"Aye," he said as they stood together in the dusty, paper-choked main room of his tower. "Would n"
The front door flew open, startling them both, and a wild-eyed woman, garbed in the black tatters of a once fine gown, strode in. Without slowing, the Simbul smiled at Sylune, took Elminster's hand in her own, and practically snatched him up the stairs to the bedchamber.
"My body?" Sylune asked softly.
"It will be the first act I set him to when we awaken," the Simbul told her sister as they vanished around the first curve of the stair. "I'll see to it."
"Perhaps I should get to it now," Elminster's voice came floating down the stairs, sounding a trifle anxious.
"I have other uses for you first," the Simbul told him fiercely. "Gods, El, I've missed you!"
Her arms went around him hungrily. In the room below, Sylune listened, a smile growing on her face. Then she chuckled softly, and flew out into the night.
Lhaeo bid her a pleasant night as she drifted down the path. The floating head turned to face him. "Lhaeo? I thought you were abed!"
"I was," Elminster's scribe said dryly, "until the Queen of Aglarond arrived. Then I suddenly found myself dressed, awake, and out herewith this bottle of elverquisst to keep me company." He sipped at the glass in his hand and sighed appreciatively. "Superb stuff."
Sylune hesitated, looking out over the moon-drenched, placid pool toward the flickering torches on the walls of the Tower of Ashaba. "Would you mind if I stayed to talk for a bit?"
The scribe looked up at her. "Lady," he said softly, "I would be honored. Stay with me so long as it pleases you." He drained his glass and added slyly, "You can tell me what it's like to get a head in this world!"
The floating head growled at him. "You may be surprised to learn," the Witch of Shadowdale said sweetly as she drifted nearer, "that I can still tickle."
"Ah, no," Lhaeo said with a groan, putting his glass carefully out of harm's way. "No..."
The farmhouse shook, and the night outside was briefly as bright as day.
"What was that?" Mourngrym snarled.
There was a confused snatching at weapons and a rush to the door.
The Rangers Three, Storm, and the lord and lady of
Shadowdale reached the flagstone path outside Storm's house in time to see a bright stream of stars rising from Elminster's Tower, in the wake of a radiant orb in which two familiar figures danced and swam. They heard a happy, wordless cry before the sphere that held Elminster and the Simbul turned suddenly and streaked away northward, into the stars.
"Gods above," Itharr said wonderingly. He turned his head and saw Sharantyr's awed face looking up into the sky beside his. Leaning close, he asked quietly, "Do you think we could try that?"
Still watching the distant sphere dwindle into the night, Sharantyr drew back her arm and punched him enthusiastically.
Shaerl and Storm hooted with laughter.
The moonlight of another night washed down over the ruined pillars and walls of Irythkeep. Itharr looked up at Selune, yawned, and said, "High time for slumber."
A slim lady rose from banking the fire beside him, took his chin in her hands, and kissed him fondly. "The *.     watch is mine, of course, O King of Snorers," the Witch of Shadowdale told him, and patted his arm. "Go on."
"Are you sure?" Belkram asked sleepily, coming out of the tent with Sharantyr's leathers and his own, to drape them over a line for the night.
"I don't need to sleep, remember?" Sylune told him.
Both Harpers nodded, more asleep than awake, and said, more or less in chorus, "May the night be good, then." They turned together to go into the tent where Shar was already lost in slumberand bumped together.
"Ugliness first," Belkram said, indicating the tent mouth.
"Stupidity first," Itharr countered, waving his friend toward the sleeping furs.
"Pigheaded Harpers first," a smiling Sylune said in both their ears, and shoved at their backs. They fell into the tent in a chuckling heap, and the Witch of Shadowdale turned away to look out over Daggerdale, a smile on her face.
"Sharantyr's first child, at least," Azuth said softly as the two gods stood together by the fire, magically hidden from mortals and Chosen, "will be thine."
Midnight nodded. "She'll need to be strong, and soon... magic may be biddable again, and the gods back in their places."
The goddess sighed then, and added almost in a whisper, "More than that: Elminster cannot last forever."
 
Away, Shadows, away! I grow tired of slaying thee
and presently I shall grow angry. Then you'll be sorry!
The Simbul, Queen of Aglarond - Said in spell-battle before all her court
Year of Shadows
PRologue
Three living heroes and a ghost dared to take an enchanted blade out of the 
world, hunting shapeshifters in their ancient Castle of Shadows
For centuries, the Malaugrym had been dark figures of legend, fey sorcerers who 
could take any shape they chose. They came to Faerun to impersonate kings and 
reavers and archmages, to entertain themselves with the havoc they could 
wreakand to seize mortal women as breeding slaves, carrying them off across the 
planes to the place they called Shadowhome.
When the famous archmage Elminster of Shadow-dale caught Malaugrym in Faerun, 
they paid with their lives. Twice he journeyed to the Castle of Shadows to 
humble the House of Malaug but no mere mortal had ever made such a foray and 
returned to Faerun to tell of it.
Until Lady Sharantyr, Knight of Myth Drannor; Bel-kram and Itharr of the 
Harpers; and the ghostly remnant of Sylune, Witch of Shadowdale, went up against 
the shapeshifters armed with the Sword of Mystra. And with that sword, Sharantyr 
cut her way back from the brink of death and out of the Castle of Shadows, 
slaying many of the evil shapeshifters as she went.
Unfortunately, most of them still lived, and vowed revenge on four new foes. 
More entered Faerun with the returning heroes and escaped to wander the Realms 
at will.
Even worse, Faerun was much as they'd left it: in the throes of the magical 
chaos, bloodshed, and lawlessness of the Time of Troubles, when the gods 
themselves walked the Realms, no magic could be trusted, and fire and fury raged 
across the lands.
It was a time for heroes, and the four who'd escaped the Castle of Shadows found 
Elminster, the Old Mage, waiting for them, with orders to undertake still more 
perilous tasks in the desperate work of saving civilized Faerun.
And the Malaugrym were waiting for them, too
If Begins with a Flame
Faerun, Daggerdale, Kythorn 20, Year of Shadows
The wind rose and whistled through the stones of a roofless, ruined manor house 
on a grassy hillside in Daggerdale. The trampled slope was strewn with 
tenta-cled, jellylike, eye-studded nightmare bodies.
Three weary, wild-eyed rangers and a ghostly lady hastened up the hill from the 
monsters they'd slain, running like starving men to a banquet table. They 
hurried toward a man who sat in the ruins.
The gaunt, white-bearded old man sat on what was left of a crumbling wall and 
serenely smoked a pipe. He looked at them all, smiled, and spat out this smoke 
belcher. It rose smoothly upward to float by his ear, spouting wisps of smoke 
that curled away to be lost in the quickening breeze. *Te deserve 
congratulations for one thing, at least," he announced.
After the silence had begun to stretch, Itharr sighed and asked in tones that 
were just respectful, "And what, Lord Elminster, would that be?"
"Keeping thyselves alive," Elminster told him dryly.
"I heard an 'at least' in there," Sylune put in. Her silvery tresses hung still 
around her eerily translucent face despite the gusting wind. Beside her, the 
blood-spattered lady ranger Shar shot her an amused look through her own 
wind-whipped hair.
Elminster glared severely at the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale. "There is a little 
matter of bringing a trio or more of Malaugrym into Faenin, and allowing'them to 
wander off untraced and untrammeled, to work their wanton wills across the 
land."
"Work their wanton wills' I like that;'twould fit nicely into a purple Harper 
ballad," Sylune replied serenely. "My choice, Old Mage, was between the lives of 
these three heroesnay, no wincing, now; they've more than earned the titleand 
those of a few shapeshifters. / think my decision was the right one and if you 
disagree so strongly, why did you not take action yourself? You must have been 
here watching us."
"Been here, aye. Watching, no," the Old Mage replied, eyes on the hillside below 
themwhere, at his magical bidding, the horribly distorted bodies of the 
Malaugrym were rising into the air and catching fire. "I was tossing meteor 
swarms over the turrets of Telflamm, half a world away."
"By the gods, the bardic phrases keep flowing, like" The ghost sorceress paused 
meaningfully.
"Nightsoil from a hurled bucket?" Belkram offered helpfully.
Sylune rolled her eyes and continued, "And your reason for this ah, fiery 
behavior?"
El grinned. "I was feeding a wild magic area to make it grow into a shield 
against Red Wizards so I could turn my attention closer to home."
Belkram caught the first whiff of burning flesh and spun around, raising the 
gory daggers he held ready in both hands. Seeing the source of the smell, he 
relaxed. A certain grim satisfaction grew on his face as he watched the bodies 
of their foes burn. Sharantyr gave the midair cremation a single quick glance 
and turned her gaze back to the Old Mage.
"I know you well enough, Elminster," she said levelly,
"to know that such words always lead us to another of your 'little tasks' and 
I'd appreciate knowing what this one is without a lot of clever tongue-fencing. 
Several Malaugrymone in particularhave about used up my patience for today." 
As she stared challengingly at the Old Mage, Shar flexed her aching jaw. Her 
mouth, scorched by a Malaugrym tentacle whose foul taste she could still 
remember, was throbbing painfully, and her tongue was a thick, numb thing.
As her companions looked at the usually merry Shar in surprise, Elminster 
inclined his head and said, "Plain speaking is wise in any case, Lady Knight. 
Know, then: thy swords and spellsand all of ye, with themare urgently needed 
in the coming defense of Shadowdale. I'm here to send ye where ye're most needed 
in that fight."
"The Zhentarim?" Sylune asked shortly. It was more statement than question.
As if her words had been some sort of cue, the world around them was suddenly a 
cold place of endlessly streaming white flames, and her companions stood frozen 
amid the conflagration. The last thing the Witch of Shadowdale heard was 
Elminster's disgusted cry: "Ah, no! Not again!" And then his tattered words were 
whirled away from her, and all that was left was the ceaseless roaring
After what must have been a very long time, Sylune knew herself again. She was 
all that was left of the woman widely known as the Witch of Shadowdale
She was Sylune. Still a ghost and still in Faerun. Hanging in the heart of the 
roaring.
All around her, flames that did not burn streamed endlessly past her motionless 
friends and the crumbling stones of the manor. But she could move and think 
though the cold white flames made her tremble uncontrollably as they roared 
through her.
Sylune found she could move, if she bent her will hard to the doing. Let us be 
doing, then.
With slow determination, she drifted nearer the Old Mage, sitting motionless on 
his bit of wall. His hands were uplifted and his lips open, wearing the 
disgusted frown of his realization that whatever it was had caught him again.
So they were in some sort of trap. A magical trap, though its flameswhich 
didn't seem to harm anythinghad withstood the wildness of magic stalking Faerun 
for some time; it seemed. Some of the wildflowers growing amid the stones had 
bloomed and withered since the magic had begun. The companions had been here for 
days, then. Sylune wished she could sigh. I've not been a ghost long enough to 
learn patience for waits that may well take years.
She looked at the Old Mage's pipe, still floating beside his head where he'd 
left it, and saw that the flames bent around it.
They seemed to be avoiding it! Sylune stared at the spell-flames narrowly for a 
time; they boiled up out of nowhere on one side of the ruins, arced over her 
frozen companions, and then returned in an endless rush to nowhere on the far 
side of the broken walls. It was some sort of stasis field that avoided 
Elminster's small, curved, ever-smoking pipe.
So, the pipe yet radiated its own magicand floated on its own, not frozen by 
the flames. She frowned. He'd once been able to teleport with it, hadn't he?
She drifted nearer, noticing faint wisps of smoke curling up out of the pipe 
bowl ever so slowly and rising to mingle with the onrushing flames.
She eyed it. This was probably going to hurt.
Mystra, if any part of you is still around to hear, she thought firmly, aid me 
now. And with the resolve still strong in her, she surged forward, thinning a 
part of her essence into the pipe.
Magics swirled and tore at her, defenses against tampering that bore Elminster's 
trademark spell-upon-spell interlacing. Gods, the pain!
Whirling around in a silent scream, Sylune found that the pipe could teleport 
vapor in and away, in an endless cyclegiving her an escape whenever she 
wishedand could also transport anyone who touched it and willed it, thus, from 
place to place.
Elminster sat frozen, but perhaps she could guide the pipe to him yes! That 
very movement was a direction he'd given the pipe several times recently, so how 
to do it was displayed right in front of her!
Sylune swirled around the pipe and moved it down toward the Old Mage's mouth. 
The flames bent away from her, and grim satisfaction rose within her as she made 
the slow, drifting journey. This was going to work!
At last the pipe touched the Old Mage's lips, but he sat open-mouthed, unmoving, 
and she could feel no quickening of will within him, only the endless roaring. 
The magic was binding his wits, then. Of course it must be, or he'd have used 
spellfire to drink it down to nothingness long ago. Sylune wanted to sigh again.
Perhaps she could force a teleport byoh, gods, this might well be the last 
thing she ever did, the last moment she knew.
Farewell, Faerun, Sylune thought, and flowed back into the pipe. She must will 
it to take the Old Mage away from here, to the meadow. The meadow where 
Sharantyr had danced about with a glowing sword in the depths of the nighta 
lifetime ago, it seemedin the meadow just over there.
And then white flames roared up between her ears and up her throat and the world 
exploded, whirling her away
Castle of Shadows
Shadowhome, Flamerule 15
"I have seen enough shadow weaving and clearing away of dead kin and rubble to 
last me many an eon," the gigantic horned worm declared in a voice that echoed 
in the far corners of the cavernous room, "and Shadowhome is rebuilt 
sufficiently to set my gorge at easefor now."
With a rattle of huge chitin plates, he glided into the dim, shadowed chamber, 
and there dwindled into a bald, long-tailed, gray-scaled humanoid. Othortyn of 
the Malaugrym eyed his minions, a pair of tentacled lesser kin who peered into 
the flickering, floating light of a scrying portal at the center of the chamber. 
Othortyn shifted his tail and asked irritably, "So how've you two been wasting 
your time?"
"Watching what befalls in the world of the humans," Inder said boldly, "as you 
commanded." His quiet companion, Hastrim, nodded but said nothing.
"And what have you found?" Othortyn asked, settling himself on a crumbling stone 
throne that was almost as old as he.
"The ambitious humans who dwell in Zhentil Keep, bolstered by their godor one 
who claims to be Banehave gone to war," Inder said in a voice swift and shrill 
with excitement. "They've sent four armies into adjacent lands, the largest by 
road into Shadowdale where the Great Foe dwells."
"And what befell this force sent against Elminster?" Othortyn asked quietly.
"Some local human mage called down lightnings and cooked many in their armor 
and then the Foe turned a few thousand into boulders while they were camped at a 
place called Voonlar. No doubt he planned to transform them all, but"
Othortyn blanched. "Mass transformation? You dare to tell me that the Great Foe 
can turn whole armies into toads? I've not heard that sort of nonsense since I
was a youngling and pranksome elders tried to scare me with wild tales of human 
wizards!"
Inder met his master's gaze steadily. "Didn't you believe those tales?" he asked 
quietly.
Othortyn glowered. "So, just how many spells, oh wise apprentice, do these 
wizards hurl around that I don't know about?" he asked, voice heavy with 
sarcasm. As he eyed the younger Malaugrym, his tail curled out to open a door 
that had been secret for long years. He took out a dusty bottle from the dark 
niche beyond.
Inder shrugged. "Several thousand, perhaps."
"So, with all this magic to hurl about, reshaping worlds," Othortyn snarled, the 
end of his tail rearing back and lengthening into a hollow stinger, "why did 
oh-so-mighty Elminster stop making his rocks before the whole host was done?"
Inder frowned as his master pierced the cork of the bottle and drank deeply. The 
apprentice said, "His spellas would any mighty magic, we believecreated an 
area of wild magic which is still spreading. A wizard would see such a thing as 
the greatest danger of all, and would do nothing to aid its spreadnor dare to 
risk himself in its vicinity."
"So the Great Foe did not confront his own foes directly," Hastrim added, 
"fearing for his skin."
"He turned instead to the other armies, where only lesser mages stood against 
him," Inder continued, "and"
"Speak no more of the Foe," the old Shadowmaster said sharply. "What has become 
of our kin who reached Faerun?"
"Atari, Yinthrim, and Revered Elder Ahorga survived the battle with the three 
accursed humans who came here," Inder said in more sober tones, "and seem to be 
roaming Faerun in many shapes, learning its ways and uses."
"Others of our house have found their own, separate ways into Faerun," Hastrim 
added. "We have scryed
Bralatar and Lorgyn, and seen one other, whom we believe to be Lunquar, get of 
Byatra" His voice trailed away, and there was a little silence.
"Is that all?" Othortyn growled. "I thought Jaster had gathered a dozen or more 
eager younglings around him!"
"He did," Inder said quickly, "but when Starner came to you with word that the 
Great Foe was caught in the loop trap you cast at their gate, you told him to 
gather all kin with spells to spare and make haste to"
"Blast all who defy me!" Othortyn roared, and lightning leapt from his eyes like 
two darting white flames, roaring across the chamber to swallow up Inder and the 
scrying portal with him.
Hastrim staggered back with a startled sob as his companion and their spell 
vanished into wisps of curling smoke.
"I did tell you, Inder, not to mention the Great Foe again," Othortyn said 
chidingly. Then he turned his head from the drifting smoke and said politely to 
Hastrim, "Please continue with the exposition of events that Inder so abruptly 
abandoned"
Hastrim stared at him in stunned silence, face pale. Muscles rippled around his 
mouth as he fought for calm.
"Feel free to be as clever as you feel necessary," the old Shadowmaster said 
soothingly.
Hastrim looked at Othortyn, and then his gaze fell again to regard the greasy 
curls of smoke that had been Inder. He swallowed.
"Well," he said unhappily, "perhaps it would be best to begin when it was first 
noticed that three humansbearing a magic swordhad somehow stepped from Faerun 
into the heart of Shadowhome undetected."
"Good, good," the old, bald Shadowmaster said encouragingly, opening another 
bottle. "Would you like something to drink?"
"Er" Hastrim began, and then added with sudden firmness, "Yes," and a long, 
snakelike tentacle put a dusty bottle in his hand.
*****
Faerun, Dagger-dale, Flamerule
"Easy, lass," a familiar voice rumbled as Sylune" of Shadowdale slowly blinked 
her way back into awareness. " Twas well done, to be sure. Ye shattered a spell 
loop, a very nasty Malaugrym magicand there were a dozen of them waiting with 
all the spells they could think of, for us to break out. It's probably best that 
Shar and the lads were stunned when ye hurled me elsewhere. It saved them from 
about forty mind-rending attacks, and left me free to use the sort of Art that 
was really necessary."
Elminster gestured down the hillside, and Sylune saw rainbow swirlings there, 
above torn earth and blasted stumps. The trees around the stream and the leaning 
bridge were no more and no doubt the gate to the Shadowmasters' home plane was 
gone too.
"A wild magic area?" she whispered.
"I fear so," Elminster replied grimly, "but the gate is gone forever, and a 
score or so more Malaugrym with it."
Sylune shuddered and drifted up out of his hands. Except for the few stones 
where the Old Mage was sittingwell west of where he had beenthe ruined manor 
was now a crater of mud and gravel.
She swirled back to face him. "How long has it been since we came back from the 
Castle of Shadows?"
"Nigh on a month," Elminster said quietly.
Sylune" nodded grimly. "I thought so. Has Shadow-dale fallen?"
Elminster gave her a twisted grin. "Not yet." He got up and trudged west, into 
the trees. "Come to the meadow."
Sylune drifted along beside him, suddenly reluctant to be alone. The old wizard 
had taken only a few paces before they emerged into a field of trodden grass 
where Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr sat, looking up with welcoming smiles.
"Thankee, and all that," Itharr said, his broad shoulders shifting as he smiled.
"All part of my orders," Sylune told him briskly, giving Elminster a meaningful 
look, "as enunciated by the tyrant mage here."
"Ah, yes," Belkram said. "I believe I know just how you feel."
"Yes," Sharantyr agreed crisply. "I think it's about time, Old Mage, that you 
told us what befell Faerun while we were all caught in this magic."
"You might have revived us sooner," Itharr added darkly.
Elminster looked at the burly ranger. "It took me days to repair and rebuild thy 
bodies, all three of ye. I had to use necromantic spells I haven't looked at in 
ages and I do mean ages." He lifted an eyebrow. "Perhaps I didn't get thy head 
screwed on quite right."
"I" Itharr began, but Belkram interrupted him.
"If that's so, sirwhy do I feel weary, and in pain?"
"Aye!" Itharr agreed.
"The only way I could save ye at all," Elminster muttered, "was to restore ye to 
exactly as ye were before the trap took us. As it was, I nearly lost ye more 
than onceye in particular, Belkram, five times! The gods know I've grown used 
to never receiving the slightest thanks when I help folk, but betimes I think 
certain beneficiaries of my arts close enough to meand perceptive enough, 
toah, ne'er mind" He glared at the handsome Harper.
Belkram returned his look of anger.
"All right," Sharantyr said, looking from one to the other. "Enough. Tell us 
about the Realms, El."
Elminster's face grew calm as he nodded and said briskly, "Zhentilar armies 
march on Shadowdale from all sidesand the avatar of the god Bane rides with 
them, leading the main body himself."
"Faerun's flying dung," Sylune said crisply. The unaccustomed oath drew startled 
gazes her way. "Even if the dale can withstand such an assault," she said 
bitterly, "it'll be torn into smoking ruins in the doing." She turned to look 
south. "And after all these years, I'll see it destroyed after all."
"Be not so quick to surrender our home to the Black Gauntlet," Elminster said 
firmly. "/ shall be there, fighting to the last and I've sent Zhentilar troops 
running bootless away from Shadowdale more times than I care to recall."
"If three swords can make a difference in this, sir," Belkram said heavily, 
"things must be bad. Tell us in truth what's befallen thus far where are the 
Zhents now?"
Elminster nodded. "Four armies are on the march," he said, all trace of 
testiness gone. "The one coming down through Voonlar is the largest, though my 
friend Perendra took care of a goodly number of the fools by calling up a 
lightning storm. Fancy marching through a downpour in full armor; some of these 
warriors must have cold iron between their ears, not just over them! Meanwhile, 
I dealt with a few thousand more."
"Oh? How do you'deal with' a few thousand Zhent troops?" Belkram asked, shifting 
into a more comfortable slouch in the grass. The more he dealt with arch-mages, 
the more it was becoming obvious that their shared concept of 'haste' allowed 
time for thorough discussions of everything.
"Carefully, lad," Elminster told him predictably. "Carefully."
The two Harpers sighed together and had many other opportunities to sigh as the 
wizard rambled on. At one point Belkram muttered despairingly, "Get on with it!" 
under his breath.
He'd spoken a trifle too loudly. The Old Mage's eyebrows rose, and Belkram 
gulped,
"Patience certainly seems to be the provision ye used up most in the shadows," 
El observed mildly as his pipe glided in to find its way to his lips. He blew a 
slow, spreading smoke ring and then banished his pipe again. Teleportation is 
one thing that still seems reliable among all this chaos of Art, so I spent the 
better part of the highsun hours yesterday transporting a dozen monstershydras, 
firedrakes, wyverns, behirs, death kisses, and the likeinto the camp of the 
second, central force, north of the Flaming Tower."
Belkram chuckled, but Shar looked troubled. "What's to stop their using spells 
to drive those beasts before them, south into the heart of Shadowdale?"
"Me," the Old Mage told her impishly. "I took care of their mages first." He 
watched another smoke ring drift away on the wind and added, "Some of the beasts 
I sent into their midst were rather hungry, too."
"Can't Bane teleport just as easily as you can?" Itharr asked quietly.
Elminster nodded his approval at such tactical thought. "Of course. Hell have to 
come to the aid of his Central Blade or lose the lot of them but the doing will 
keep him occupied for a time, too busy to work other mischief." He ran fingers 
through his beard. "The same consideration governed my treatment of the smallest 
force. Fzoul's leading four hundred or so mounted men-at-arms past us right now, 
through Daggerdale."
"Four hundred Zhentilar?" Belkram asked, holding up his daggers. "You want us to 
take down four hundred warriors? Shouldn't we get horses to ride on, just to 
make it a little fairer?"
Shar and Itharr snorted together. Sylune reclined gracefully on thin air, as if 
sprawled on a couch, and awaited Elminster's answer.
The Old Mage shook his head and asked softly, "Bold today, aren't we, friend 
Harper?"
Lesser men might have quailed before that tone, but Belkram merely shrugged, 
smiled, and waved at Elminster to continue.
Inclining his head in a mock bow of thanks, Elminster said, "That task is not 
yours." He lifted his lips in a mirthless grin. "I suspect a few ores can do it 
better."
"A few ores?" Sharantyr roared, her voice rising from deep and ragged tones, for 
all the world as if she were a burly male and not a lithe lady. "Elminster!" 
That last squeaked word of reproach sounded more like a lady's pique, and goaded 
Sylune into peals of tinkling laughter.
"Yestereve," Elminster told them in tones of injured innocence, "I approached 
several ore bands foraging in Daggerdale, and undertook to alert them that a 
well-provisioned Zhent force was entering the territory. That should make things 
a little warmer for Fzoul than he anticipated, and rob him of most opportunities 
to reach Shadowdale ahead of the other Zhent forces, hole up in the woods around 
Grimstead, and amuse himself by using his spells to harass the good folk of the 
dale."
"All right, El. You've been both clever and busy," Sylun6 reassured him, her 
voice soothing. Her next words, however, came out as sharp as the crack of a 
whip: "But so have we. My friends here grow stiff and tired and hungry. Armies 
march on Shadowdale from all sides, you said, and have told us of three, so what 
attack is coming from the southand what is our duty in dealing with it?"
Elminster bowed his head again to hide a grin, cleared his throat in apparent 
embarrassment, and said, "I need ye four to deal with the fourth Zhent attack: 
the Sword of the South. It's a band of Sembian mercenaries and the covert 
Zhentarim agents who hired them. They've been assembling in Battledale for a 
month and more, drawn from all over Sembia and the eastern dales."
"They're going to try to march through the Elven
Court woods?" Shar asked, one shapely eyebrow raised. That's not a wise tactic 
for any armed band."
The Old Mage shook his head. "Their orders are to take and subdue Mistledale, 
and without pause press on up the Mistle Trail, to drive into Shadowdale from 
the south." He smiled gently. "You will stop them."
"I thought we were going to defend Shadowdale," Bel-kram said. "You may be able 
to dance around the Realms with a thought and a wiggle of your hips, but we have 
to walk and I don't feel like running back and forth between two dales, sword 
in hand, through gods know how many Zhent blackhelms!"
Elminster held up a quelling hand. "I said I'd come to send ye where ye are most 
needed. Right now Shadow-dale is crowded with frightened troops bustling about. 
I don't want them to relax because the heroes have come to town, and I don't 
want them in thy way, or ye in theirs. Mistledale is thy battlefield. The 
defense of Mistledale will be the southern defense of Shadowdale."
"How strong is this fourth host?" Belkram asked suspiciously.
Elminster shrugged. "About seven thousand, when last I counted."
"Seven thousand!" Itharr burst out as jaws dropped all round.
Shar shook her head. "You love us, don't you?" she murmured.
El chuckled. "Oh, yell have help. All of Shar's battle companions, the Knights 
of Myth Drannor, are in Mistledale already, mustering the Riders."
"There are only thirty Riders, perhaps six more if the graybeards who can still 
walk and breathe at the same time come out of retirement, and another dozen if 
their sword apprentices ride with them, too," Sylune said softly, "and barely a 
dozen Knights, even if all who've retired or strayed off come running to 
Mistledale."
El frowned. "And ye, of course isn't that battle might enough?"
"Ah, Old Mage," Sylune said gently, "you may not have noticed, being old and 
terribly important and even busier than usual but I'm not er, the woman I used 
to be."
El chuckled. "I've been spreading stories of the Ghost Witch of Shadowdale these 
last few months I think ye'll find, on a battlefield, that ye're rather more 
than ye used to be."
Sylune glared at him, her eyes two white flames dancing in the air. "And just 
what does that mean?"
"I've had half Twilight Hall modifying their best battle spells since the 
seasons turned," the old wizard told her. "If it all works, they can cast them 
simultaneously through ye, so a dozen or more battle magicswhich ye can 
aimlash out from ye at once."
"And the catch?"
"The power involved will burn ye out from within, leaving thy body only ashes 
killing ye."
"El, I don't haveoh. I see. As I'm dead already, I should survive the 
destruction of whatever body you're going to give me."
El nodded. "It's waiting for ye in Mistledale," he said quietly. "Not the last 
one 111 give ye ifgods willingI survive this Time of Troubles."
Tears welled up in her phantom eyes, and he added quickly, "Ye'd best get down 
there speedily. Torm's been dressing the bodyyein all sorts of black leather, 
red evening lace, and fishnet gauze apparel, most evenings, and seating ye in 
the porch window of the Six Shields to entertain the locals."
"Oh he has, has he?" Ghostly eyes flashed. "I think 111 just slip into this body 
of mine at an opportune moment and give him the fright of his life!"
Shar grinned broadly. "May I watch?"
"No, that's 'may we watch?'" Belkram corrected her.
"Of course," Sylune told them grandly. "This Six Shields place is unfamiliar to 
me, though"
"A cheap rooming house east of Lhuin's tannery," El
+ 1(
told her in the manner of a pompous guide, "opened recently to house field 
workers, drovers, and others too cheap to stay at the Hart or the Arms."
Shar and the Witch of Shadowdale sniffed in unison. "It sounds like the sort of 
place where Torm would stay, tight-pockets that he is."
"Much as I'd like to watch ye roast Torm on a spit, just to see him wriggle for 
once, there is some haste," the Old Mage added. "By sundown, the scouts of the 
Sword of the South may well reach Galath's Roost."
"How can we possibly reach Mistledale in time, then?" Itharr askedunwisely, as 
it turned out.
Sharantyr gave him a weary look. "He's going to mass teleport us," she said 
grimly. "It always makes me feel sick for hours afterward." She sighed and put 
one arm across her bosom and the other over her stomach, bracing herself. "Get 
on with it, then."
"Wait," Belkram said, brow wrinkling. "We haven't even"
The last, fading thing the Harper saw as he struggled to finish his sentence was 
Elminster's cheery grin. Around him the world flashed and changedinto blue, 
swirling misty emptiness. Next came a sense of falling, for just one wrenching 
moment, and then they were standing on a bare board floor in a loft lit by two 
barrel-sized lamps that hung down on dusty chains from the roof beam. Frowning 
men in armor stood staring down at large maps whose corners were held down by 
daggers and gauntletsor looking up at the newcomers in startled consternation, 
hands going to hilts.
Belkram and Itharr stood a little behind Sharantyr. Right in front of her was a 
tall, broad-shouldered and hard-faced man whose steely eyes raked both Harpers 
for a moment before he took a catlike step forward and crushed her into an 
embrace.
"Shar, by the grace of all the gods!"
The lady ranger's shoulders shook for a moment as she clung to him, her drawn 
sword forgotten, and she knew tears would be bright on her face when she turned 
to introduce them. Florin Falconhand did not give her the chance.
"I've missed you, little one," he growled, and as Shar reached up to tousle his 
unruly hair, he added, "but you've found companions on the trail, I see. Who are 
these two gentlemen you've brought?"
Eyeing the drawn blades crowding in around them, Belkram deemed the moment 
right. He bent his knee, parted the leathers at his throat to show his silver 
harp pin, and said, "Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers to fight alongside you, 
Lord Florin. Elminster sent us."
A good-natured grin split the famous ranger's face, and he reached one long arm 
around Sharantyr to clasp their forearms. "Be welcome! We have need of swords, 
good men to wield them and adventurers brave enough to stand up to Elminster, 
too!"
"Pardon, Lord," Itharr said smoothly, "but shouldn't that be 'foolish enough*?"
There were chuckles from all around the room, and other men thrust forward their 
hands in welcome. They were accepted.
Shar tossed her silver blade under the table and put her freed hand on Florin's 
cheek to guide him down into a kiss. As their lips touched, she was overheard to 
be murmuring, "Well, here we go again"
Bodies, Frzesh and OfheRtoise
Misttedale, Fiamerule
It was horribly dark and somehow dusty, followed by a whirling moment of 
wrenching pain that became a red agony in her chest, rising up to choke her. 
Threads of pain rolled down limbs stiff from disuse to an aching _ forest of 
fingertips and then light and sound suddenly burst and swam all around her. The 
Witch of Shadowdale found herself blinking back tears.
She had a body again!
Fighting an urge to shriek in triumph, Sylune clung to that thought: she had a 
body again! A body Torm had obviously just finished dressing in a black lace 
cutaway gown that left her bare there and there and there He stood with his 
back to her, humming a contented ditty as he held up a red silk garter before 
the lamp and surveyed it critically.
It did look rather splendid, but Sylune bent all her attention to making the 
still unfamiliar body movepushing against the bed with utmost care to sit up 
silently, and then leaning forward into a quick barefoot step, slipping her arms 
around him. Her lips went straight to his ear, and before she kissed its hairy 
lobe, she murmured into it, "Torm I've come for you! Torm"
With a gratifying shriek, Torm leapt into the air, red silk flying. Sylune clung 
to his trembling limbs and made the leap with him, but the Knight twisted in the 
air to fling her free and grabbed at his belt dagger. The Witch of Shadowdale 
put one leg behind her, bounced on it, and lifted her other knee smartly between 
his, ere she bounded backward onto the bed.
Lord Torm of Shadowdale, Knight of Myth Drannor and thief of some skill, rose 
into the air once more, sobbing. His darkening eyes met hers for just a 
momentwith a look of mingled pain, terror, and disbeliefbefore he crashed face 
first to the floor.
Some minutes later, the figure sprawled on the furs beside the bed stopped 
moaning and writhing, and asked hesitantly, "Sylune? Is it you, truly?"
She stood up and walked slowly around the room, kicking experimentally to limber 
up stiff legs and toes. "It is, Torm which is why you still live, I suppose."
Weakly, the thief on the floor began to chuckle. "Bits of me do. Others I'm not 
so sure about. I'm sorry, Lady."
"Apology accepted, lecherous scum."
He laughed openly this time, his whooping breaking off with a catch as the 
shaking brought him fresh pain. "Ohhh, gods," he said at last, rolling over. 
"I've not felt this much pain since well, never mind."
"I hope she was worth it," Sylune said teasingly, and then asked curiously, "Why 
weren't you wearing one of your usual flamboyant codpieces?"
Torm looked hurt. "I wasn't dressed yet! Can you see me going downstairs in 
this?" He held his arms wide to fully display the patched and stained cotton 
undersuit that went under his fighting leathers. "Ladies first," he added, 
gesturing at her.
Sylune put her hands on her hips and gave him a level stare as she gestured, up 
and down, at herself. "This is your idea of'dressed,' I take it?"
Torm gave her a sly look from the floor, and rolled up to a sitting position, 
wincing once. "Well, you hadn't complained before tonight," he said, feigning 
innocence.
"Yetas you may just have noticedI'm doing so now," Sylune told him calmly. 
Then she snapped, "Take this frippery off meat once!"
Torm bounded to his feet with an alacrity that belied the severity of his 
injury. "My pleasure, Lady Sylune!"
"I'll bet," she said dryly. Try to keep your hands on the buckles and thongs, 
now, and when you're done, 111 need a neck rub. Hmmmy calves, too. This body is 
as stiff as old wood!" She struck a pose, pirouetted experimentally, admired 
herself in the burnished metal looking glass, and rubbed her nose. "You've taken 
some care with my hair," she said in tones of pleased surprise. "Diligent 
brushing, at the least. My thanks, Torm."
"Lady," Torm said seriously, reaching out a finger to stroke the silvery fall of 
her hair, "in all my life I'd never dared touch your hair, or Storm's, but I 
always wanted to. It's truly beautiful like spun silver."
SylunS laughed lightly and laid a hand on his cheek. "Why, thank you, Tormthis, 
from the maid-chaser of Shadowdale?"
"Lady, I meant it," the thief replied, and bowed. " Twas an honor caring for 
your body." A twinkle crept into his eye. "In fact, if you weren't so many years 
my senior"
Sylune glared at him, and gestured again at herself. "You were hard at work 
removing all this saucy stuff, remember?"
Torm's jaw droppedand he discovered the fallen garter. Plucking it up from the 
floor, he offered it to her mutely. Sylune gave him a withering look, so he 
shrugged and tossed it over his shoulder. Then he undid her sash, put his hands 
on her shoulders and spun her around lightly. He stripped her with a speed and 
expertise that told her he'd done this a time or two before.
"This bit's much easier when you're standing up ander, with us," he commented. 
"Oh, by the way
the stone that lets you occupy this body is implanted here." He touched the 
inside of her left arm, just above the elbow. Sylune probed cautiously, and 
thought she felt the magic stone deep within, alongside the bone.
"Mystra bless you and keep you, Old Mage," she breathed, "wherever she is."
"What about prayers for me?" Torm asked teasingly, fingers busy undoing the 
black silk choker he'd put around her throat earlier.
"You'll be needing more than I feel capable of giving," she replied with a 
chuckle. Then the Witch of Shadow-dale reached out, caught hold of his chin, and 
kissed him firmly, darting her tongue into his mouth.
When she released him, Torm was smiling a little dazedly. "What was that for?" 
he asked in pleased tones.
She put her arms around him, smelly undersuit and all. "Torm, you rogue," she 
said feelingly, "do you know how long it's been since I've held someone? Kissed 
anyone? Tasted anything? Even your mouth is preferable to nothing at all!"
"Hey!" Torm said in aggrieved tones. "What's wrong with the taste of my mouth?"
"Nothing," she said tartly, spinning away from him, "except that it's the only 
taste you've got." She sat down on a chair. "Now, about that neck rub."
"If my taste is so bad," Torm said, delving hurriedly into a wardrobe, "how is 
it that you're in my bedchamber, out of a dozen more in this place? Hey?"
"That can be remedied," she said, rising.
Torm caught her wrist and sat her back down. "You're not going out into the hall 
like that!"
"Why not?" She gave him a deadly look. "After what I've heard about what you've 
been doing to this body before I got here, it could hardly damage my 
reputationor yoursany further! Has Ulistyl heard about this?"
Torm looked pained. "How did you? Oh. Elminster."
She nodded in silent satisfaction. The thief looked at
 her, found his eyes drawn to meet her own, sighed, reminded himself again that 
this magnificent creature was a woman old enough to be his great granddam many 
times over, smiled ruefully, and turned her around to face away from him again. 
"You wanted a rub," he said, "and you shall have it. Then you can go down those 
stairs and fight off the entire Zhent army doe-naked if you want but you might 
catch cold before they get here."
"Not if all the men of Mistledale give me the sort of hot glances you've been 
throwing my way," she returned. Torm chuckled and tipped some scented oil out of 
the bottle he'd taken from the wardrobe, rubbed his palms together, and then 
laid gentle fingers on her shoulders.
Sylune stiffened. "What're yoh. Ohhh." A few pleasant minutes later, she asked 
almost sleepily, "How did you know I love the scent of cloves? Did Elminster 
tell you?"
"No," Torm replied, sounding irritated. "How, then?"
"Lady Sylune," Torm said carefully, "I am a thief." He had to hold her up to 
keep her from falling off the chair as she bent over and shook with sudden, 
helpless laughter.
Daggerdale, Flamerule
Valaster's Stand had thrust lancelike into the eastern Daggerdale sky for an age 
and more, and bid fair to do so for a long time to come. Long before Valaster 
had chosen to die there, the stand had been an arrowhead-shaped ridge that rose 
sharply upward as it ran northwest, to end in a jagged, overhanging point of 
rock under which many a traveler had camped. Wiser folk kept to the thick stand 
of shadowtop trees that marched up its back, and so stayed hidden from the eyes 
of predators.
The trees on the edge of the rocky point were dead or dying. Their bare branches 
thrust up into the sky like the gnarled fingers of a dead man, a popular roost 
for birds of prey. Two large and dusty buzzards sat side by side there now. Many 
another raptor circled, squalling at the buzzards' refusal to leave, and then 
flew off in search of other perches.
The two dusty birds paid them no heed, for they were deep in conversation.
"We can't get back without a mage," one said in tones that threatened to become 
a wail.
"If we find one powerful enough," the larger buzzard added, "there remains the 
problem of compelling him to create a way between the planesand yet keep 
ourselves safe against his treachery."
"To say nothing of the wrath of the elders of the blood if they hold us 
responsible for opening a way into Shadowhome any mortal can use can you 
imagine armies of men in the halls of the castle?"
"I could tell them it's all your fault, Atari," said the larger buzzard, 
sounding amused.
"I don't find this a matter for jesting," the other raptor said coldly, "even 
from you."
"We'd best begin lurking about cities and towers and the like, looking for 
wizards and trying to find out just who is mighty, and what interests drive 
them," the larger buzzard said. This may take a long time."
"Aren't they most likely to be found in cities?" Atari responded almost 
despairingly. "Yinthrim, I don't know how to look and act in a human city! We 
won't be able to learn anything if we're always running afoul of local laws and 
customs, and getting attacked!"
"How to begin, then? We'wareF
A large, dark bird was gliding down out of the high blue sky toward them, headed 
silently but purposefully for their tree. The buzzards watched it nervously, 
shifting on their perches. "An eagle?" Atari guessed. "Do they eat buzzards?"
"Nothing eats buzzards, if I recall old Othortyn's teachings, except other 
buzzards," Yinthrim said tightly, "but if he was wrong"
The eagle circled the tree, regarding them both with dark and knowing eyes. "Is 
this all you've managed to do?" it asked coldly. "Take bird-shape and sit around 
on dead trees feeling sorry for yourselves?"
"Ahorga?" Atari gasped.
"Son of Yerga," the eagle responded calmly as it came to rest, wings flapping, 
between them.
"We were just discussing"
"I know; it's how I knew you. Is this all you've doneflee into the wilderlands 
and then sit and talk?"
"Well, no" Atari protested, but Yinthrim interrupted.
"That's a fair summation of our doings, yes," he said. "I'd rather tarry now and 
plan wisely than charge into one blundering battle after another and awaken the 
attention of the Red Wizards, these Zhentarim, and Elminster's friends."
The eagle nodded. "Fair enough. Have you come to any conclusions as to what to 
doas opposed to what not to do?"
"One question," Atari said hurriedly. "How many more of us came through with the 
sword and survived?"
"None I know of, but others of the blood seem to have found their own, separate 
ways into Faerun."
"Will any of them join with us," Atari asked eagerly, "in hunting down the three 
violators of the castle? Or the Great Foe?"
Ahorga turned a cold and glittering eye on the younger Shadowmaster. "Hot for 
revenge, are you? None of themnor will I."
"What?"
Ahorga turned to see if the silent Yinthrim was as shocked as Atari, but the 
larger buzzard merely shrugged and said calmly, "Say on."
Ahorga nodded. "Rushing into battle here is a very good way to get slain. They'd 
no doubt rather see what Faerun has to offer before getting themselves 
destroyed and so should you."
He looked back at Atari. "Go after the three rangers if you mustyou're likely 
to find them and the Great Foe in and around Shadowdale, southeast of herebut 
you'd better gather some rings and wands and suchlike that wizards here use to 
store battle magic you'll need such power to take even those three. You'd best 
get some experience in impersonating mortals of Faerun first unless you like 
being burned, lashed, and transformed against your will by frightened wizards!"
"You make it sound as if every mage of this world can dispose of us with a wave 
of his hand," Atari said bitterly.
"If you sneer at them and rush into battle with them heedless of what might 
befall," Ahorga told him, taking flight with a sudden, powerful wingbeat that 
almost tumbled them from the tree, "that's exactly what may happen." He circled 
around them. "Go softly, and make surprise your best weapon."
"Will we see you again?" Yinthrim asked.
"If you stay alive, almost certainly," the senior Shadowmaster said. "Remember, 
an ambush is your best tactic, and against Elminster, it's your only tactic."
"Well practice ambushes, then," Yinthrim promised grimly. "The Realms around 
here, I think, are suddenly going to become much more dangerous."
"Now that sounds like a son of Malaug speaking," Ahorga said approvingly. 
Without a farewell, he flew off southwest.
Atari watched him go, and then said in a small voice, "Are mortal mages really 
that dangerous?"
"No," Yinthrim assured him. "He was just telling us that overconfidence is."
"Words to live by? Hmmph," Atari said, and turned one wing into a tentacle long 
enough to make a rude gesture into the southwest. Yinthrim chuckled and flew 
from the branch.
"Where are you going?" Atari asked in sudden alarm.
"I'm going to practice ambushing somethinganything," his fellow Malaugrym 
replied. "I'm hungry."
****
Verdant farms stretched away on both sides of the road, which ran like a sword 
blade down the length of Mistledale. Along the backs of those prosperous 
steadings stood the unbroken green wall of the encircling Elven Court woods. On 
this bright morning Mistledale was a beautiful place to ride, with a good mount 
moving strongly beneath the saddleeven if the rider rode in the midst of a 
solid ring of ebon-armored warriors, who took care to keep their armored forms 
between her and any possible attack.
For the third time, Jhessail Silvertree lost sight of everything but moving 
black-armored bulks and a forest of lances. She studied the small circle of blue 
sky visible above herall she could see of the world aroundsighed, and decided 
she'd had about enough. From the mutter-ings behind her, she could tell that her 
apprentice, Illistyl, whose tongue was apt to be sharper than that of almost 
anyone else, was clinging to her temper with grim talons. Jhessail smiled 
tightly, thanked Torm for his work in outfitting her with riding breechesthough 
her lack of armor was why the Riders were treating her this wayand swung her 
legs suddenly up underneath her.
She heard a startled, wordless exclamation from a Rider on her right as she 
spread her hands for balance and stood up on her saddle. She had time for a good 
look around before the Riders on either side of her were extending their lances 
around her like the bars of an upturned portcullis and crying out:
"Lady, get down!"
"Catch hold of my lance!"
"Careful, Lady!"
She folded her arms across her breast and waited for them to fall silentand 
soon enough, uncertainly, they did. "Thank you for your kind concern, 
Gentlesirs," she said as the horses slowed to a rather jarring trot, "but both 
Illistyl and I find it rather hard to do any scouting or become familiar with 
the land around usland you gallants already know well, but which we've seen 
only once or twice in passingthrough a solid wall of plate armor."
"That's just it," the leader of the patrol rumbled, his deep voice sounding 
almost scandalized. "You wear no armor! What if a Zhent arrow came from the 
trees? How could we shield you better than we have been?"
"Kuthe," Jhessail said soothingly, "'tis not your diligence or skills I 
reproach, but my lack of any good way to see around or through all of you. I'm 
saving my one 'long eyes' spell for any spying we need do in the forest. I know 
the risks of riding to war; I've done it before, remember."
"But to expose yourself needlessly," Kuthe growled, "is foolish, Lady."
"To a vigilant guard of his homeland, yes," Jhessail said, still standing on her 
saddle, "but I am an adventuress. One who plays with spells. An explorer of 
baatezu-haunted Myth Drannor. Wedded to an elf, remember? I've done far more 
crazed things in my life than riding out without armor, I assure you."
"But the little lass* Kuthe said, gesturing helplessly.
"Call me that again, ironhead," Illistyl advised him sharply, "and you'll be 
chasing your teeth around the inside of that great helm of yours."
There were guffaws from the Riders, but one of them cut through the chorus of 
mirth. "Lone rider behind!"
Heads snapped around, and Jhessail turned, smiled, and announced, "It's Lord 
Merith. The reinforcements Elminster promised us must have arrived."
"Reinforcements?" Kuthe rumbled, looking up at her.
"We've heard nothing of this How many, Lady?"
"Four," she told him sweetly, and there were more guffaws. Illistyl was sure she 
heard an angry snort as Kuthe's helm swung away from them, but a moment later 
Jhessail snapped, "Aheadat Treesedge! Lookr
The eastern end of Mistledale, where the flanking arms of the forest met to form 
a narrow green tunnel around the road to the Standing Stone, had always been 
called Treesedge. The spot was marked by a covered well and the crumbling 
rampart of a tiny keepwell known to Riders on patrol who'd sheltered from 
downpours under its remnants. It was a beautiful spot to spend a night, but a 
bit lonely to be a grave site.
It seemed likely, however, that men were going to be buried there now. Crossbow 
quarrels were humming down the road from the east, raking the rear of a 
hard-riding band of merchants on lathered, stumbling horses fleeing west into 
Mistledale.
The strength of the merchant band was dwindling steadily. The bolts found easy 
targets. As Jhessail watched, a fat merchant threw up his hands with a strangled 
wail and pitched from his saddle, choking on the quarrel that stood out of his 
throat. On the other side of the road, a horse's head flopped and swungand a 
breath later both horse and rider crashed and rolled in the dust, collapsing 
into the long silence of death.
Jhessail dropped into her saddle again a scant moment before the Riders spurred 
ahead into a grim, silent gallop, knowing they'd not be in time. Far behind 
them, Merith stood up on his own saddle, saw that strife lay ahead, and reached 
for his bow.
Lances leveled, the Riders of Mistledale swept east. "Get out of the road!" 
Kuthe snarled at merchants who could not hear. "Clear the way!"
"Kuthe! Halt your men!" Jhessail shouted. "Nowr
The great helm turned her way, the face within dark with anger. "You have some 
sort of plan?"
"Yes," Jhessail cried, leaning close to him as their mounts thundered along side 
by side. "Just stop them!"
Kuthe gave her a long, slow lookand then reached for the horn at his belt.
After the horn rang out around them, the patrol became a confused mass of dust, 
rearing horses, and cursing men. Lances rang and rattled off armored shoulders, 
and Jhessail had to duck hastily to avoid being inadvertently unhorsed.
"Well, mage?" Kuthe demanded when he could be heard. His eyes were on the last 
merchants, dying up ahead and at something moving on the tree-lined road beyond 
them. Their slayers.
The leader of the Rider patrol shot her a look. "Well?"
JhessaiFs mouth was a thin, white-lipped line as she told him shortly, "Back 
away Give us room side by side."
Kuthe waved one great gauntlet in heavy silence; Illistyl was already guiding 
her mount forward. Jhessail whispered to her, and they raised their arms 
together, spread as if in supplication to the sky overheadand waited.
In tense silence as the Riders eyed them, they watched the road to the east. 
"Well?" Kuthe demanded. "Have you seen enough?"
"Wait until they come out," Jhessail said, her eyes on the road. "It'd be our 
death to ride down that firing tunnel, the gods know. Let them come out. If I'm 
right, they'll be the Zhents we're expecting with orders to ride right on and 
take Mistledale. They probably killed those merchants just to stop them from 
warning us."
Kuthe nodded as the killers of the merchants rode into view: a band of mounted 
crossbowmen, clad in armor as dark as that of the Riders, streaming out of the 
road mouth and fanning across the fields of Treesedge. Around the two 
sorceresses, men swore at the sight of that armor.
"Zhent blackhelms, all right," Kuthe said, "and riding hard to encircle us  
sixty of them, or more. What now, Lady?"
"Keep silence for a breath or two," Jhessai) told him softly, "while we do what 
we have to. Let no man here ride forward until I give the word. When our first 
spell goes off, your horses may move by themselves; be ready to hold them back!"
"Whose place is it to give orders?" a Rider demanded gruffly.
Jhessail turned on him eyes that were dark and cold, and said, "It will mean 
death to ride forward. Disobey my suggestion freely, but leave word for your 
widow first."
More than one dry chuckle answered her from the men around, and Kuthe growled, 
"Right. We wait. Work your magic. Shields up!"
Crossbow quarrels were already hissing their way, though the range was 
impossibly long. Ignoring them, Jhessail spread her arms again and began the 
incantation, Illistyl chanting in unison.
Abruptly the air in front of the Riders was full of shadowy, moving formsimages 
that suddenly grew dark and solid; the gleaming black armored backs of Riders on 
horseback, charging away with lances lowered. More than one mount under the real 
Riders surged forward to join them, and had to be reined in, hard. The ground 
shook under the thunder of phantom hooves, and dust rose in a cloud as thirty 
dark horsemen raced away east.
"Gods," the Rider who'd challenged Jhessail whispered, watching the illusory 
Riders charge away into battle. "They certainly look real."
"Aye, but how can ghost Riders kill any Zhents?" Kuthe demanded as Merith 
Strongbow came up beside him, an arrow ready, and nodded in silent greeting.
"That's the next spell," the elf told him with quiet confidence. "I've seen this 
trick before." He thrust both bow and arrow into the startled Rider's hands. 
"Herehold this."
As Kuthe gaped at him, he raised his own hands and joined in the gestures of the 
next spell, murmuring something the Rider couldn't quite hear.
Then he plucked bow and arrow back from the officer's hands and stared east, 
watching as the dust cloud behind the false Riders became a thick, swirling mass 
of yellow and greenand the two forces crashed together.
With startled speed, the Zhents plunged through the phantom Ridersinto the 
thick of the yellow-green cloud. And men who rode into that cloud did not come 
out again.
"I hate doing that to horses," Illistyl said, her voice as thin and cold as a 
knife.
Merith's eyes, however, were on those who'd ridden wide. "Jhess!" he snapped 
urgently. As his wife peered past Kuthe, Merith drew his bowstring back to his 
chin, angled the ready arrow up into the sky, and loosed.
Kuthe had never been so close to a spell being cast before. He stiffened and 
swallowed as one slim and shapely arm brushed his breastplate in an arcane 
gesture, and a clear, musical voice spoke two distinct words.
She turned her head and winked at him. Kuthe blinked at herand when he looked 
again at the sky, the arrow had already split into a dozen shafts, plummeting 
down on the hard-riding Zhents in a deadly rain.
All but two of the invaders fell in that volley. Kuthe glared at the surviving 
Zhents and snapped, "Oroldtake them!" Six of the Riders spurred away without a 
word, waving their lances as they followed Orold into battle.
"It feels unfair, killing men like that," Jhessail said quietly.
Kuthe stared at her, and then at the fading yellow cloud where only a few horses 
still choked and rolled.
"Lass, lass," one of the older Riders replied through his snow-white mustache, 
"there're still near seven thousand of them, if our scouts be right. When we 
face alt of'em, sweeping down on our homes, d'you think they'll turn their 
mounts back if we yell 'unfair' then? Aye?"
Another Rider spoke then. "I can even things just a trifle more."
Jhessail turned her head to see who'd spoken; the voice had sounded surprisingly 
old. The Rider guiding his mount toward her wore worn armor that had been 
recently burnished at the joints to quell creeping rust. The armor was of an 
older, bulkier design than what Kuthe wore, though most of it matched the ebon 
gloss of the other Riders' harnesses. The Rider doffed his helmand Jhessail 
stared into the lined face of a very old man.
"Lead us if you will, Baergil," Kuthe said quietly.
"Nay, lad," the old Rider told him. "My commanding days are done. I know daily 
just how good I wasI order my cabbages about in the garden, and they heed me 
not a whit."
"Ho, Baergil," Merith said with a smile, and the old man matched it as his 
cloudy blue eyes met the elf's steady gaze. "I remember you."
"And I you, Sir Elf," Baergil replied. "Though it's been thirty years gone since 
then."
"Baergil led the Riders that many summers ago," Kuthe told Jhessail, "when I was 
but a lad. Then he turned to the worship of Tempus, Lord of Battles, and left 
our ranks."
"They're all dead," Illistyl told them bleakly; she had never stopped watching 
the Zhents die. "I guess we'll not need your spells, priest of the war god."
Baergil smiled. "Nay, lass; their deaths're what I was waiting for. There's a 
spell that raises the fallen"
"To dowhat?" Jhessail asked quietly.
"In the hours before dawn," Baergil said, "if they ride as hard as 111 bid them, 
sixty skeletal reavers will ride into Essembra, striking at anyone with drawn 
weapons
or who hurls spells at them. Those who offer them peace they'll leave be, but 
Zhents being Zhents"
There was a roar of hard laughter. "Do it!" Illistyl told him delightedly, and 
the warrior priest nodded, watching Orold and his men return.
Then he turned back to them. "That should buy us the time we need," Baergil said 
with a certain satisfaction, "to make Galath's Roost ready to properly welcome 
Zhent butchers." The Riders around him laughed againa chorus of low, quiet 
sounds that held no humor.
Jhessail shivered despite herself, and caught Illistyl's eye. The two of them 
shared a comforting look as the priest turned away.
As Merith moved up beside his wife and stretched out a long arm to embrace her, 
Jhessail felt a pat on her kneeand looked up to see Kuthe wheeling away from 
her.
"Well done, Knight," he said gruffly. "See you at the Roost!" He urged his mount 
into a canter, and all around Riders spurred their horses after him, heading for 
the distant trail into the trees that would take them to the Roost  to turn the 
ruined keep into a deathtrap for Zhentilar blackhelms.
Merith and Jhessail's arms were around each other, and their kiss went on until 
Illistyl looked up at the sky and remarked brightly, "Beautiful weather we're 
having, isn't it?"
The sky seemed to know this already, though the two Knights beside her didn't 
seem to noticeor care. Illistyl sighed and rode away. In the distance, she saw 
dead men and horses rising in a stiff ring around the black-armored priest. She 
shivered, shook her head, and rode after the Riders.
See the Realms and taste true adventure, they'd said. Well, here we go chasing 
it againand flashing swords to that!
The Dead and the Liaing Both Ride
Essembra, Battledale, early hours of Flamerule
Gostar yawned and backed into another circular walk, keeping his eyes and 
attention always on the night to the north. As if his shifting had been a 
signal, his companions did the same. Those who fell asleep on guard duty or were 
judged careless often swallowed sword blades on the spot, but the long, cold 
hours made feet ache and limbs stiffen. It was best to keep moving in the last 
stretch before dawn, when the mists clouded bright armor and played tricks on 
eye and ear.
Now, for instance. A low rumbleGostar could feel it in his jaw more than he 
could hear itwas rising from the ever-shifting mists ahead. A helmed head down 
the line inclined to listen; the others had heard it, too.
The noise was growing louder, becoming a continuous soft thunder, swirling over 
and around them with the scudding mists and seeming familiar. He'd heard this 
sound before. In his saddle, on the rolling plains near Thentia
Then he knew what it was, and ice clawed at his heart and throat.
Gostar shook himself, swallowed, and shouted,
"Rorst! Run back to rouse the camp!"
"And why'd I risk a flogging to do that, now?" Rorst asked in his usual, 
careless, I've-seen-it-all tone.
"Can't you hear it?" Gostar waved one gauntleted hand at the mists before them, 
where the sound had become a continuous choppy thunder. "Those're horses, 
manhalf a hundred or more, at full gallop!"
Helmed heads were looking at him all along the line, nowand in the eyes, their 
whites flashing in the gloom, Gostar saw the grim realization that he was right. 
Swords gleamed and sang as they were drawn. Rorst took a few lazily shambling 
steps away from the line just to show that he didn't take orders from a fellow 
ranker, and feared nothing besides. Then he broke into a trot.
A line of fast-plunging horses leapt out of the north mists, like arrows seeking 
targets. Atop them rode black-armored warriors, drawn swords in hand.
Gostar yelled in fear and defiance and raised his own sword, whirling it around 
his head to get the speed he'd need to cleave armor and unhorse a foe. He sprang 
deftly aside as a charger galloped right at him, then leaned in to strike his 
blow. It wasn't until he looked up into eyes that were dead and dark that Gostar 
knew something was wrong, horribly wrong.
The face above his was Estard's and Estard was up in Mistledale this night, 
with sixty fellow Zhentilar blades, carving out a claim there for the Sword of 
the South. Who, then, was this?
Bright pain burst through Gostar as Estard's sweeping blade cut through the 
light mail under Gostar's left arm and into the ribs and chest beyondand the 
wounded man hung for a long, burning moment on that cruel edge of steel. The 
world grew dark around him as he flew free, the ground so hard and close and 
more hooves struck him as he fell, crushing him into the turf, but Gostar felt 
them not. Nor anything else, ever again.
A raw scream split the night. Swordlord Amglar came awake, its echo ringing 
painfully between his ears. He'd been dreaming of gentler, softer, and more 
welcoming sounds, by far.
"What befalls, by the gods?" he growled at the darkness, feeling for his sword 
hilt. Horses were thundering through the camp, and the clash and ring of arms 
rose around him, mingled with shoutsvoices he knew.
They were under attack by a large mounted force!
Amglar cursed, snatched up sword and shield, and stamped feet into his boots, 
but wasted no time on clothes. His sword squire was snoring like a contented 
whale at the far end of the tent, with all their armor racked beyond him. It 
might as well be a realm away.
Boots secure, Amglar spat a heartfelt curse and ran for the back of the tent, 
where the din was less. The attack was from the north Hillsfar? Who else could 
muster enough mounted swords to get through the road guard? Elves never fought 
from the saddle and even if every farmer in Mistledale could find a horse, 
scarce more than a handful'd be able to stay on it while swinging a blade!
Then he was out into the night, and war was all around himZhent blackhelm 
fighting Zhent black-helm! Amglar stared around for a moment at running, 
half-naked men, horses plunging and trotting stiffly among them, stiff 
black-armored ridersstiff? The swordlord's eyes narrowed.
He ducked back out of the way of a cursing knot of men being dragged behind 
pikes buried deep in a rider who did not slow or fall from his saddle. The rider 
clung to the upswept forecantle with one hand while he swung a futile blade back 
and forth with the other. The horse struggled on under the weight of them all.
Undead. The attackers must be their own men, raised and sent back from 
Mistledale. Amglar stared around at Essembra, cursed with loud feeling, and 
started a perilous run toward the red-lantern house the mages had taken as their 
own. He hoped he'd make it there alive and in time.
He was still running hard, dodging blackhelms who should be dead and frantic 
quarrels from his own terrified men, when Ondeler appeared at the 
close-curtained balcony of the Bold Banners and stared at the battle below. 
There was no hint yet of dawn, but the torches in their tripods still blazed, 
and in the dancing radiance they cast, the Zhentarim wizard could see the street 
was choked with struggling men.
"Bane's hand!" Ondeler cursed, amazed and fearful. Who could be attacking them 
here, in the heart of Essembra? Behind him, a lass appeared on the balcony and 
gasped. He turned and snapped at her, "My robe! Be quick!"
Scared eyes met his for a moment, and she was gone. Ondeler turned back to the 
street, crouching low behind the balcony rail, and watched the carnage below. 
Swordlord Amglar, still a distance off, ran toward the red-lantern house, and 
then Ondeler heard anxious breathing at his shoulder.
"Lord?" the lass whispered.
He reached out without looking, felt the familiar fabric of his robes, grasped 
it firmly, and said, "Go now and awaken Myarvukthe mage with the curling black 
beard, who came in with me. Bid him come here; Ondeler commands. If he seems 
unwilling, tell him the seven talons await. Haste, now!"
"Lord, I will," she hissed, and was gone.
Ondeler smiled wryly as he felt for what he'd need. Why was it that ladies of 
the evening obeyed faster and more willingly than any of the Zhents under him? 
Perhaps he should take all the women of this house with him, to be his 
swordcaptains and envoysif he still had any command at all, after this attack.
He gave up groping for the secret pockets and rose into a cautious crouch to put 
the robe on. Once it was around him, his fingers knew the places where this and 
that were stored, and came up with them.
He rose up to his full height, made the pass that touched the two crumbling 
substances together, and chanted:
"By dung of bat and sulphur's reek And mystic words I now do speakAshtyn 
ortkruu angcoug laenLet empty air burst intoflame."
As the components dwindled and left his hands empty, one end of the street below 
obediently erupted in ravening flame, in an explosion that hurled blazing bodies 
against walls in a gruesome chorus of thuds.
In the flickering aftermath of the fire, Ondeler could see some armored men 
fighting on despite the flames rising from their bodies. He felt a chill of 
fear; how?
Undead. Ah, of course. Most were ashes, but a few were horses and men, 
bare-boned or burning, still moving, fighting
Through them stumbled a man with a drawn sword, who wore only boots and a 
furious expression. Sword-lord Amglar had finally reached the red-lantern house. 
He was heading for the door beneath Ondeler and glaring up at the balcony as he 
came.
"Crimson curtains, wizard! Are you trying to burn all Essembra down, and us with 
it?"
"It does seem to work, Swordlord," Ondeler replied with a serenity he did not 
feel. "Nice uniform, by the way"
Amglar made a certain rude gesture with his sword, but the wizard sneered and 
raised his hands as if to cast a spell. The Zhentilar snarled and hastened out 
of view, in under the railing, heading for the door.
"I am here, Ondeler," Myarvuk said from the chamber behind the balcony where the 
wizard stood.
"Good," said his Zhentarim master. "Did you bring my envoy with you?"
"Envoy?"
"The woman who came for you Belurastra."
"The?" Wisely, Myarvuk swallowed his astonishment and replied levelly, "She 
stands beside me, master."
"Get her some riding breeches, boots, a daggeryou know," Ondeler said, eyes 
still on the street below. "She'll be riding with us."
"Lord?" Belurastra asked in a low, cautious voice, as the apprentice mage 
hurried away
"Aye, envoy?"
"I-I am unused to war. Are you sure you want to do this?"
"I am," Ondeler said flatly, watching a dozen men-at-arms hacking undead limb 
from limb across the street. An attacker rode toward them, and the wizard swept 
a stone from another hidden pocket, whispered a word over it, and held it out to 
make an intricate gesture.
An instant later, a boulder the size of a small cottage appeared above the 
undead mount and rider and crashed to the cobbles, crushing them both into a 
tangled, bloody mass. Ondeler nodded in satisfaction. "Another fireball may not 
be necessary," he announced. .
That's good news, wizard," the sour voice of Sword-lord Amglar grunted from the 
room behind. "Your last fire spell sent at least seven of our swords to their 
graves and a few more bid fair to join them before the day is full."
"Their surviving swordbrothers might just be able to deal with a few zombies," 
Ondeler said sarcastically. "Weight of numbers and all that."
Amglar ignored this, refusing to rise to the challenge. It was not the first 
time this arrogant Zhentarim had likened loyal troops of Zhentil Keep to pitiful 
inferiors not able to match wits or swords with the walking dead. He wondered 
idly if Ondeler would have dared to act thus if he'd known that Amglar was under 
orders to report regularly to Draethe, steward of the Inner Circle, on the 
wizard's performance. Well, no matter; one such report was soon going to be the 
last, featuring the sorrowful news that Ondeler's own incompetence had brought 
about his death in battle. Amglar had been considering elegant ways of wording 
that missive for some time now.
But enough; it was time to play the stone-skulled soldier again. "I've ordered 
all the troops awakened, fed, and made ready to march," he said heavily. "As 
soon as the last undead ones are hewn down and burned, we go north. They're 
probably laughing in Mistledale now, thinking they've the whole day to dig in 
and await us I'd like to take most of that preparation time away from them."
"All the troops?" Ondeler turned, raising an eyebrow. "Even"he gestured 
expressively at the boudoir around them, taking in the entire red-lantern house 
in his meaning"the rest of the magelings?"
Amglar set his jaw. "The whole host," he said flatly, and held up his sword 
hilt, the black hand of Bane gleaming in obsidian on the pommel, in silent 
reminder that he held overall command of the Sword of the South, supreme even in 
dealings with Ondeler.
The wizard shrugged. "I am ready, as always." As Myarvuk returned with a bundle 
of clothing, his master said coldly, "Rouse the 'prentices in as much haste as 
is seemly. Our swordlord is impatient to find other battlefields than this 
town."
Myarvuk nodded in silence and withdrew, leaving Lady Belurastra curiously eyeing 
the belt, boots, breeches, and tunic.
"Put them on," Ondeler ordered her as Belurastra stood stroking one of the 
smooth-carved balls that surmounted her wooden bedposts. She wore a slightly 
bewildered expression, and made no move to take up the small sheathed dagger 
that lay atop the heap.
"If you ride nude," Ondeler told her coldly, "you'll be raw before the sun is 
bright, and of no use to me."
Belurastra raised large, dark eyes to meet his and asked, "Lord, you are 
determined to do this?"
"Of courseand if I must tell you again, young Lan-dras of my 'prentices will 
have the use of your backside to practice his firewhip spell tonight."
-The lady escort sighedit was almost a shiverand said, "Very well," in a small 
voice as she undid the lace and let her shift fall to the floor. Ondeler watched 
it form a puddle of cloth around her feet and turned his head away in 
satisfaction to glare at the swordlord once more. Amglar had raised his own 
blade as if to stare at its edge critically, but the wizard saw his gaze dart to 
the woman, and smiled. Brains in their codpieces, all of these swordswingers. 
Twas a pity that they were needed at all, to hold what the wizards of the keep 
won
The swordlord was a veteran soldier. After that first glance to see what she was 
doing, he kept his gaze resolutely away from Belurastra until it was too late.
Smoothly, the most beautiful woman in Battledale, senior escort of the Bold 
Banners house, twisted and pulled on the wooden bedpost ball. It came away, and 
she reached into the hollow interior beneath it and snatched forth a slim 
poniard. Tossing the ball on the rumpled bed, she used her freed hand to strip 
away a wax-sealed sheath from the weapon as she raised it.
In the lamplight, a dark green liquid gleamed on the needle-slim steel. 
Somethingperhaps a momentary flash of reflectionalerted the wizard, and he 
whirled about to face Belurastra.
"I regret," she said firmly as she plunged the poisoned blade into his right 
eye, "that I cannot accept the position of envoy to any Zhentarim wizard!"
As she jerked the blade free, the swordlord leapt at her. Ignoring Ondeler's 
crumpling body, he caught her wrist in steely fingers before she could turn the 
blade on herself.
The deadly poniard hung bloodily just above her bare breast for a perilous 
moment as they strained against each otherand then the Zhentilar twisted and 
yanked. Belurastra sobbed in helpless pain, and the blade spun to the floor. It 
struck the floorboards and stood quivering there.
"Poisoned, Lady?" Amglar asked in low tones. "Bravely donebut to throw your 
life after his would be a waste a foolish waste." He released her wrist, and 
the nude woman took a smooth step back.
"You'll not slay me?" she asked, rubbing her wrist.
The Zhentilar officer shook his head. "Nay, Lady, if you agree not to bury that 
little fang in methough you'll forgive me if I neglect to mention your name or 
heroic deed in my reports. Best hide that blade after we're gone, somewhere that 
doesn't tie it to you. And neither of us speaks of this, or remembers it, for 
the rest of our days."
The lady escort's eyes widened in sudden hope.
Amglar regarded her gravely. "Well? Have we agreement?"
"We do," Belurastra said, eyes bright with unshed, grateful tears.
He smiled. The heels of his boots clicked together. "As to your query: slay you? 
Nay; I salute you. You've done something none of us dared to and freed us of 
his idiocies just when we could no longer afford them."
A smile flickered across her face. Amglar realized it was because of his 
elaborate dignitythe boots he'd clicked together were all he wore. He grinned 
back at her, and said, "If you're so adverse to wearing breeches an' all, I'll 
see if they'll fit me."
Myarvuk came bustling in a few breaths later and looked sharply down at the body 
sprawled facedown on the floor, blood pooled about its head.
Amglar, resplendent in too short breeches, said briefly, "Spell went wrong. 
You're spellmaster of this sword now."
Myarvuk brightened. Then his eyes narrowed and he took a quick pace back, out of 
the swordlord's reach. "How can I be sure your next report to the steward won't 
contain a note of how I treacherously slew my master? I think I must know where 
we both stand or if I must ensure that I'm very soon the only one still 
standing." He raised one hand threateningly, wriggling his fingers in a 
pantomime of spellcasting.
Amglar shrugged. "Save your spells for the foe, boy. Even if I did report that 
you killed Ondeler, twould not paint you ill in their eyes. You know that. Rest 
assured my reports won't say you had any part of it, unless you want me to write 
thus. Now stop prancing about trying to impress me, an' see what you can salvage 
of this carrion's"he nudged the dead wizard with his foot"magic, for your own 
use."
Myarvuk bent to his task eagerly, but stiffened a few breaths later when Amglar 
growled, "Just one other matter, Spellmaster. You don't need an envoy, an' 
Bat-tledale doesn't need its best lady escort slain. If we are to have a deal, 
she stays here, unhurtyour witness, if you ever need one, that you weren't 
anywhere near when Ondeler so unfortunately left us."
Myarvuk nodded and shrugged. "No argument here, Lord." He bent gingerly to the 
body. "I don't suppose you?"
"Nay, boy. Loot your own bodies an' don't be all day about it. The Sword of the 
South rides out of Essembra as soon as it's light enough to see full quarrel 
range ahead. There'll be no scouting and creeping about, either. We ride looking 
for battle. Someone in Mistledale seems to want death, and I mean to bring it to 
him!"
Axshabenford, Mistledale, Flamerule
"Clever battle strategies?" Florin asked, wrinkling his brow. "What clever 
battle strategies, Torm, do you think a force of seventytwenty of whom are 
untrained farmerscan essay on the field? Against seven thousand?"
The thief shrugged. "The mighty battle mastery of gallant Florin Falconhand is a 
legend from the Dragon Reach to the Storm Horns, and shiny-eyed maidens await, 
breathless, for whatever Florin may have up his"
"Don't push it, Torm," Florin said dryly, and snapped his visor down. His next 
words boomed hollowly from inside his fearsome great helm. "Armed with my 
reputation, I'm sure we can take the field with sixty-nine rather than seventy."
As the Knights around them chuckled, the ranger stood tall in his stirrups and 
waved his blade. "Ride out!"
The cry was echoed by the captain of the Riders, and all the horses surged 
forward eagerly. They were so few that the road took them easily.
More than one watching villager shook his head in disbelief at the calm manner 
of Mistledale's defenders. One of the ridersthe woman with silver hair, who'd 
sat asleep and nearly naked in the window of the Six Shields several nights 
runningeven laughed merrily at something the thief said to her. The three 
rangers riding easily behind her exchanged glances and smiles, and spurred their 
horses to pass her by, giving the watching folk of Ashabenford cheerful waves.
The villagers were not heartened.
One spat into the dust of the road and rumbled, "A handful against thousands! 
We'd best be packing the night through and try for Cormyr, I guess"
"There's no safe place to ride to," the woman standing beside him said quietly. 
"I'll be staying on. They'll cut me down in my own fields, to be sure, but at 
least I'll die at home, on my own land, an' 111 not have run from anyone."
"Don't be daft! You want to die screaming, with half a dozen Zhent blackhelms 
laughing over you?"
"Nay, but the gods don't seem to care what I wantan' I don't even know the road 
to Cormyr. This is as good a place to die as any."
"A thousand warriors, and a thousand more, and many more besides, that merchant 
said," another villager said softly. "The Riders'll all be slain, sure. Yet hear 
them laugh!"
"Fools," the first villager grunted. "I'm off to pack. Who's with me?"
"I'll ride to Cormyr with you," said another. "Even if the gods themselves took 
the field with our Riders an' these Knights of Myth Drannor, there's no hope 
they'll win against so many."
There were many silent nods at these words, and the villagers sighed and turned 
away from the road. In the distance, the riders were little more than tiny 
moving dots now.
The war band left Ashabenford behind in a few breaths, riding easily east down 
the dale. The morning was chilly but clear, and as Florin looked around at his 
battle companions and the tranquil, sun-splashed farms on either side, he was 
happy. Much blood lay aheadperhaps the ending of all their bright daysand yet 
he was doing what needed to be done, and folk needed him to do it. What more can 
anyone ask than to be needed and wanted and free to answer the call?
The captain was guiding her mount closer to his; Florin sidestepped his charger 
to meet her. "Aye, Lady?"
Captain Nelyssa's gray-green eyes met his, and her thin lips relaxed into a 
rueful smile. "I fret still, Florin. I know what we must do, and yet, to ride 
away and leave Ashabenford with not a sword to defend it What if a dozen of 
themnay, three of them, with ready bladessneak past us through the woods? Who 
will defend the old men and maids then?"
"Harpers, Lady of Chauntea," Florin told her gravely. "Almost twenty of them, 
come to us from Twilight Hall in Berdusk with all the magic Lady Cylyria can 
spare. They will fight to hold Ashabenford even if we falland they carry the 
means to farspeak Twilight Hall and call on swift spell aid."
"Aye." The lady paladin looked troubled. "And spells themselves have become 
chancy things of late."
"Not all spells," Sylune put in as she rode on Florin's other side, "else I'd 
not be here now."
"And you are very much here," Torm purred from the saddle beside her.
"Stow it, clever tongue," growled the fat priest Rathan, who rode on the thief's 
other side, saddle creaking under his weight. "Ye're worse than a boar in heat!"
Torm favored his best friend with a complicated gesture that had nothing to do 
with casting spells.
"Tymora forgive ye," the priest said heavily, crossing his arms disapprovingly 
across his ample girth, "but I do not. Seven nights of abstinence shall be thy 
penance, I vow!"
"You'll have to chain me somewhere to manage thatand, of course, catch me 
first," Torm told him mockingly, ducking his horse smoothly around behind 
Sylune's mount.
Rathan sighed and waved at him in mock dismissal.
The captain of the Riders watched with interest. "Can yon thief run at any 
speed?" she asked Florin.
"Watch him during the battle," Florin told her dryly. There're few folkeven 
winged thingsthat can keep up with his retreat."
In reply to this, Torm treated the ranger to an even more intricate gesture. 
Nelyssa's eyebrows rose. "Droll fellow did he succeed at thieving by outrunning 
guards?"
"No," Florin told her, not quite smiling. "Just by staying alive this long. And 
he did that by outrunning husbands."
Nelyssa rolled her eyes. "I can see we're going to have to watch ourselves," she 
said sarcastically.
Torm turned in his saddle, winked at her, and then leered at the Shield of 
Chauntea until she curtly ordered to him to scout ahead.
Laughing, Torm waved and galloped away.
"I'd best go after him to keep him out of trouble," Sharantyr said to Belkram 
and Itharr. "Come with me?"
"Of course, Shar," they said together, and the three horses leapt ahead as one.
Sylune watched the three rangers pull away and sighed. I've grown used to them," 
she told Florin. "See you at the battle." She urged her mount into a canter.
"We're only going to Swords Creek!" Florin said in amused protest. Torm's 
probably reached it by now!"
"All the more reason for my being there in haste," Sylune told him severely. 
"The less time I give him on his own, the less I'll have to patch or set right!" 
And she was gone, galloping hard through the black-armored ranks of the Riders. 
Some of them amusedly watched her go; others cast appreciative glances at the 
silver hair that streamed out behind her as she crouched low over her horse's 
neck.
"Are your Knights always this pranksome?" Captain Nelyssa Shendean asked Florin 
quietly, visions of chaos on the battlefield rising before her eyes chaos that 
could kill them all.
Florin gave the Shield of Chauntea a smile that had cold steel in it. "Usually 
far worse than this," he told her. "They're taking it gently so as not to upset 
you, I'd say."
Nelyssa sighedand then her eyes widened in horror as she realized he wasn't 
jesting. Her hand went to the electrum earth pendant around her neck and brought 
it to her lips. "Mother Chauntea, preserve and shield us," she murmured 
feelingly.
An instant later, the ground rumbled under the hooves of the hurrying horses, 
rocking them all. As startled men cursed and hauled at their reins around her, 
Nelyssa looked around at Mistledale with a sudden, dazzling smile. Then she 
stood up in her stirrups, whooped, drew her sword, swung it in a wild, flashing 
salute to the sun overhead, and galloped off toward Swords Creek in tearing 
haste, scattering astonished Riders in all directions.
Florin met Rathan's gaze. He took in the priest's eloquently raised eyebrows, 
and shrugged. "We seem to have that effect on folks," he observed. "Tymora 
should be happy."
"Oh, she is," Rathan told him. "Wherever we go, the entire Realms around seems 
to be plunged into taking wild chances."
"I've noticed that," Florin said in dry tones. "It's not a state of affairs to 
everyone's taste."
The stout priest of Tymora shrugged in his turn. "Their loss," he said piously, 
"and Faerun's gain. May Tymora smile upon ye in the battle, Florin."
"And upon thee, stout heart," Florin told him. Rathan looked sharply at the 
ranger's innocent smile, and found it not quite innocent enough. He snorted and 
spurred away, leaving Florin alone with the Riders of Mistledale.
The ranger caught a few questioning looks from the black-armored armsmen around 
him, and smiled. "Easy, lads. There's no need to rush into our graves. The gods 
wait for us all."
"There're going to be gods at this battle?" one of the Riders asked fearfully.
"Now, lad, let's not get our hopes up," an older Rider said with a grin. "You've 
got to save some excitement for your next battle!"
The younger Rider swallowed. "If I live to see another one," he whispered, "I'll 
begin to worry about such things, Ostyn."
"That's the spirit!" the older Rider told him. "Cast your worries aside, and 
ride on into battle!"
The young Rider looked at him with a very white face and said nothing.
"Keep track of kills, shall we, lad?" Ostyn proposed.
"See which of us can slay the most Zhents?"
The younger Rider stared at him for a momentand then fainted dead away, his 
eyes rolling up as he slid limply from his saddle.
Florin made a grab for the falling Rider's shoulder, caught him, and snapped, 
"Get the reins, Ostyn!"
The older Rider did so, deftly, and they guided the mount to an ungainly halt.
The rearguard Riders caught them up. "One down already?" a fat, cheerful woman 
asked, looking at the limp form across Florin's lap. "We'll have to ask the 
Zhents to hold a thousand or so swords in reserve."
"You're volunteering to ask them?" Florin chuckled as they righted the young 
Rider in his saddle and shook him gently back to his senses.
"Never volunteer," Ostyn warned her.
"Actually," she said, indicating the reviving Rider with her sword, "I was going 
to nominate him."
The young Rider's eyes snapped open. He stared at her for a moment, face as 
white as a priest's vestmentand then, still staring, slid out of his saddle 
again.
They let him fall to the ground this time, stared at each other, and sighed.
Softly Come the
"Hold up, there!"
One moment the road ahead was empty, but the next, a stern-looking, ragged crone 
with the largest, wartiest nose Torm had ever seen was standing calmly in front 
of his cantering horse, hand raised, bidding him halt.
Startled, the thief hauled hard on the reins. The war horse under him skidded in 
the dust as it reared, bugling, and came to a halt, lashing out with steel-shod 
hooves.
The woman regarded it calmly. "An excitable animaland you must be the 
illustrious Torm that the ladies of Twilight Hall have told me so much about." 
She turned away, hands on hips, and then turned back to him and asked curiously, 
"Did you really get a certain part of your anatomy caught in a closet door in 
Zhentil Keep, or was that just a fireside tale?"
Torm sputtered. He'd just noticed that the woman, in her kerchief and ragged 
dress, was standing in midair, her muddy, ill-fitting boots a good three feet 
off the ground. A merry gale of laughter came from Sharantyr, Belkram, and 
Sylune as they reined their mounts in around him. Itharr merely shook his head 
in smiling silence.
"Well met, Margrueth," Sylune said, eyes dancing in welcome. The old woman 
looked her up and down.
"Got yerself a new body, have you? Hmmph. No one offers me a new body to replace 
this old, aching barrel! I could get used to yours, really I could. Silver hair 
and all."
"You wouldn't want to go through what I have," Sylune told her softly. "Really, 
you wouldn't."
"Gods, girlI know that!" Margrueth told her. "I'm old and ugly, not witless! 
Just envious, that's all."
"If you're a sorceress," Torm asked her curiously, "why don't you choose any 
looks you want?"
Margrueth glared at him sourly. "That would work for snaring a man for a night 
of pleasureif, like some folk here, stolen nights of pleasure were what I 
wanted!"
She let the rebuke hang in the air between them, but Torm merely shrugged, so 
the old Harper went on. "Sooner or later, thoughwith my luck, soonerthe one I 
was with'd see the real me. I'd not hide it, mind; the real me is the one I'm 
proud of. Some of us value honesty over deceit."
"Some of us must be fools," Torm returned sharply, causing Rathan to chuckle as 
he slowed his horse to join the group of riders.
"Fool I may be," Margrueth told him, "but I could be in worse straits than 
this!" She gestured at her nose, and swept her hand down at her fat, shapeless 
body.
"How?" Torm asked, falling into the trap.
"I could have your looks," she told him sweetly, and turned away. Then she 
turned back again. "It did get caught in that door, didn't it?"
There was a general hoot of laughter, and Torm snarled and urged his mount 
forwardonly to find that the stout old woman flashed through the air to block 
his way once more.
"I stopped you for a reason, Lord Torm," she told him severely. "Beyond this 
point our traps start, and the road ceases to be safeeven for thieves with 
clever tongues and more luck than Tymora gives anyone! Yonder is Swords Creek."
Torm looked at the little rivulet meandering its muddy way across the fields, 
and asked curiously, "Why Swords Creek for our stand? Is it just a place easily 
found among all these fields?"
"Mistledale tradition," the captain of the Riders said from behind him. She 
brought her horse to a halt in a wild thudding of hooves. "On these hanks many 
battles were fought of old."
"And we Harpers've been here since yestereve, preparing it for one more," 
Margrueth added. "Water spells to make the ground sodden and turn wet spots into 
bogs to break Zhent cavalry charges, wild magic areas there and thereno, Torm, 
you can't see themfor the foe to halt in, and suchlike."
* 'We Harpers'?" Torm asked. "Aside from you, I can see only two men."
"Ah, that's because they're not done yet," the old woman told him. The others're 
in hiding already."
"Hiding? Where?" Torm asked, looking around at apparently empty fields. "Are 
they all mages using invisibility?"
"No. Not one," she replied with a smile.
Torm shook his head. "There's not a man alive who could hide under my nose 
between here and that creek."
As the words left his lips, the thief felt a solid tap on his left bootand his 
war horse reared again. Cursing, Torm wrestled to keep it from leaping forward; 
he was struggling to head the snorting beast around, away from the creek, when 
Captain Nelyssa's strong arm caught hold of the bridle. The paladin pulled and 
whistled, and Term's mount quieted immediatelyallowing the thief to cleverly 
fall off.
As he bounced on his belly in the dust, Torm found himself staring eyeball to 
eyeball with the grinning cause of his upset: a dust-covered man buried 
neck-deep in the earth, who held a sword, hilt uppermost, in one hand. It must 
have been what had tapped his boot. In his other gauntleted hand, the man held a 
shield that had been so thickly covered with turf and grass that it had served 
to entirely conceal the hole he was crouching in.
"Ye gods!" Torm gasped.
"No, even being one god'd be a promotion, I think," the Harper replied 
cheerfully. "Fine morning to be out on the grass,'taint it, Lord?"
The riders all around them roared with laughter at Term's expressionuntil the 
thief buried his nose in the grass and laughed along with them. He nodded to the 
Harper, rolled to a sitting position, and squinted up at Margrueth. "Right, 
then, I'll grant you the victory. So tell me how many more of these little holes 
have you scattered around Mistledale?"
Margrueth shook her head soberly. "That, I'll tell no one. Spying spells that 
listen to speech from afar aren't easily blocked out in the open."
Her words made them all look aroundbut aside from the two Harpers in the 
distance and Florin arriving with the Rider rearguard (one of them looking 
decidedly green), they could see no man or beast.
"But there's no one!" Torm said, waving a hand.
Margrueth shrugged. "There could be a small army of those mages using 
invisibility, young man. Think before you speak, and you'll not feel so often 
chastened."
Torm gave her a dark look, and then shook his head and grinned. "I begin to wish 
I'd had you as my mother."
"So do I, lad," Margrueth replied, "So do I. Your backside would've seen a lot 
more heat, and valuables belonging to others and good-looking ladies a lot less, 
in the years since."
"Hmmm," Torm replied with rueful eloquence, and there was more laughter.
"Oh, bloody bats! It's gone wrong againand they're all laughingF
"Not at ye," the older man said, watching the young man fling down the tangled 
trip wire in fury, his fingers trembling in agitated excitement. "Easy, lad," 
the gray-haired Harper ranger added. "Time for all that falling and dancing 
about an' all laterwhen ye've a sword in yer hand an' several hundred Zhents 
taking their turn at ye."
"How can you be so calm about it?" his younger companion protested. "We're going 
to die!"
Level brown eyes stared into his. "Aye, so? We all have to, lad, but there's 
nothing as says we have to behave like craven cattle first." The old man deftly 
disentangled the thread and held it out. "An' another thing," he continued, 
"I've been in about forty o' these little affrays before, an' them as came to 
kill me haven't quite managed the job yet. It might well take 'em as many tries 
afore they get ye, too! I've seen it all before, lad take heart, and be easy, I 
say."
The young man stared into those level brown eyes, took a deep breath, and then 
bent and tied the trip wire-quickly and surely. Then he stepped back with a 
flourish, smiled tightly at the gray-haired Harper, and said, "Done. I hope you 
remember where our hide is."
"Here, under my boot," the older man said with a smile. "Another trick you'd do 
well to remember."
"Bloody bats to you, too," the younger Harper said almost affectionately, 
scrambling down into the pit they'd dug. The old man followed, waving to 
Margrueth as he reached for the turf-covered shield that would hide them from 
the world.
But Margrueth wasn't looking at him. She was looking up, frowning at a raven 
circling in the bright morning sky high above. She said something to Sylune, who 
lifted one shapely arm to hurl magic up into the skya spell that was never 
cast.
The raven came out of its lazy circle like an arrow, streaking south and east. 
But from the blue emptiness high above came another bird, a steel-gray falcon 
with talons outstretched. It struck like a hammer, and then flapped up and away 
in triumph amid a cloud of black feathers. For just a moment, the watchers below 
caught a glimpse of silver hair and tattered black robes, and then the slayer 
was a falcon once more.
Even as Torm gasped, "The Simbul!" the falcon's kill fell to earth, twisting and 
growing as it plummeted.
It was the broken body of a black-robed human wizard that crashed into one muddy 
bank of Swords Creek. The mage flopped bonelessly once, and then lay sprawled 
and still. One Zhentarim would never spy on Mistledale again.
The old Harper looked back up at the sky. "Well, I lied to ye," he said to the 
stunned young Harper beside him. "I hadn't seen it all before. I've seen gales 
and fog and lances of lightning leaping across the skybut I've never seen it 
rain wizards before!"
Ordulin, Sembia, Flamerule
The morning sun sent bright rays through the casement of tinted glass, casting a 
many-hued image of light upon the floor furs. That meant it was past time for 
clients of the Winking Will-o'-the-Wisp Pleasure Palace to be gone so linen 
could be washed, ladies could bathe and sleep, and coins could be safely 
exchanged at the nearest bank for soft metal trade tokens stamped with the 
sunburst symbol of the house.
The occupants of the Red Sash Room on the third floor, however, could not have 
cared less about the hourfor very different reasons. One of those occupants was 
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge, rising hope of the Zhentarim, who held the Lady of 
the Red Sash in his arms as if he never intended to let her go.
Her milk-white skin was soft and smooth against him, and her kisses warm and 
sweet, with the faintest hint of exotic spices nutmeg? Dunbark? Cinnamon? Ah, 
but it mattered not.
At that ardent moment, a fist fell upon the other side of the bolted door. It 
was an imperious fist, but the door was thick and carpeted to steal away sound, 
and the couple within, seated together on the edge of the large circular bed, 
did not want to hear it. Their lips met again, and clung.
The fist, however, was persistent. Another blow fell upon the door, and then 
another, and so on, until they were joined by a softly menacing, magically sent 
voice: "I know you're within, Baedelkar. The Inner Circle has need of us both, 
immediately. We've been ordered to join the Sword, somewhere north of Essembra, 
right now."
After a momentary, answering silence (during which the Lady of the Red Sash 
murmured and moved in Baedelkar's arms) the voice went on: "Neither High Lord 
Manshoon nor I am used to waiting for an apprentice. Presently one or both of 
us shall grow weary of it, Baedelkarand then it will be too late for you to 
continue as a Zhentarim or anything else."
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge cursed in a soft whisper with feeling, and made as if 
to pull free but the large, sapphire eyes staring into his pleaded with him, 
and sweet lips begged, "Just one more kiss, proud lord a brief parting, until 
we meet again." Those lips lifted longingly toward his.
Baedelkar hesitated for only a moment before he bent his head hungrily forward. 
It was the last mistake he ever made.
The arms caressing his back seemed stronger and broader, the tongue in his mouth 
thicker. Starting to choke, the Zhentarim tried to pull away, but found that he 
was locked in an embrace as unyielding as steel, and tentacles were sliding 
around him. The eyes so close to his held a horrible flame of triumph as the 
flesh of her exquisite face bulged and moved, flowing up and over his own 
visage, covering his nose even as the cold and questing tentacle that had been a 
velvet-smooth tongue flowed down his throat, choking him. And preventing him 
from uttering even the simplest spell.
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge struggled in earnest, then, fighting with sudden 
desperation against the death embracing him. A red roaring rose up in his head, 
and creeping flesh rolled over his eyes, blotting out his last glimpse of 
Faeruna sun-splashed room and those malevolent, glittering eyes in a face that 
had become a nightmare of flowing flesh
Bane aid me Bane aid me Bane
"Right, Baedelkar," the cultured voice beyond the door snarled, suddenly losing 
its drawling grace. "You've defied me long enough! I hope you'll still think she 
was worth it, after I dothisF
The wizard's body began to shake violently, and pulse with light. The tentacled 
thing hurriedly flung it back onto the bed and flowed away across the room, to 
where the wizard's robe lay across a discarded body harness: a thing of leather 
straps that held a slim satchel of potion vials, several bulging pouches of 
sundries to spin spells, and a small, well-worn spellbook with battered metal 
corners.
The creeping thing flowed up and over this heap of magic and, without slowing, 
turned and slithered along the wall. In its wake, the wizard's belongings were 
gone, the side chest bare. Meanwhile, the body on the bed jerked and thrashed in 
spell thrall, and then leapt up into the air once and crashed down in limp 
silence.
As tentacles hurriedly tore open the casements and let the chill air of morning 
into the room, there was a snarl of fury from beyond the doorand then a 
muttered incantation. It rose to a singing final word, and then came ominous 
silence.
The monstrous, shapeshifting mass flowed out the window and up the wall outside, 
disappearing from the room seconds before the gilded door of the Red Sash Room 
burst apart in a rain of dust and splinters.
Nentor Thuldoum of the Zhentarim stood in the doorway, blinking in incredulous 
rage.
"You worm! You disobedient ti" Nentor's fury fled as he saw what lay on the 
bed. His jaw dropped, and he stared down in horror at the riven remains. His 
spell had scorched Baedelkar with a lashing lightning, but should not have eaten 
away body and brains from within, leaving behind a shriveled husk and empty eye 
sockets.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule
Thuds and splinterings resounded across Swords Creek as the defenders of 
Mistledale drove tree trunks into the ground in an outward curve west of the 
stream. A steady stream of wagons was creaking east along the road from 
Ashabenford as Riders watched the land to the east for any sign of the 
approaching foe.
"Leave openings there and there" Kuthe directed as Riders swarmed past him in 
pairs, carrying logs. Beyond them, more of the black-armored men were hewing the 
ends of the sloped stakes into sharp points. "I hope well need room to ride out 
into the fray in force."
"/ hope the Zhents fall dead of the blistering plague and we don't have a fray 
at all," a farmer muttered, snapping his reins to begin the run back to town for 
more supplies. He stood up as the empty wagon rattled away, looking around the 
busy camp, and shaking his head. Not a hundred swords to defend Mistledale 
againsthow many? Two, three thousand, or more? The word from Essembra was that 
they'd outgrown all the beds in the place a tenday ago, with not a third of the 
force mustered. The Sword of the South, indeedand they'd have a Zhentarim 
wizard or three with them, too.
He looked back at the camp once more and spat thoughtfully into the rising road 
dust. An army this small wouldn't delay the Zhent host more than an hour or two 
on its march to Mistledale. Death might well come for him before dusk todaybut 
where was there to run? He couldn't pluck up his steading and stow it in a pack 
to take with him. Stand or fall, it'd be here, in Mistledale, where he'd lived 
his life. The fanner slowed the wagon to make his trip back down the dale as 
long as he couldit might be his last look around at the finest place to dwell 
in all Faerun. He tried not to think about the likelihood that by sundown 
tomorrow it might also be the finest graveyard in Faerun.
A steel-gray falcon circled high in the cloudless sky overhead, for all the 
world as if it was taking interest in the encampment taking shape by the creek. 
The farmer squinted up at it, spat again, and went down the dale toward 
Ashabenford, where the high councilor would be waving his black scepter and 
barking orders. Heedless of him, wagoners would load in haste and head east, and 
fleeing townsfolk would drive overloaded carts west.
The breezes died away to the softest of stirrings, what the folk of the dale 
called a ghost's kiss. By the banks of the creek, a tall, broad-shouldered man 
in gleaming plate armor looked around the palisade of wooden fangs and saw that 
it was now almost a full circle. He nodded in satisfaction and turned to where a 
farmer stood by his laden wagon.
"Bring the tents," Florin Falconhand said to the man. "We'd best get started."
Kuthe frowned at the tall ranger. "This soon?"
"I doubt they'll attack before dark," the Knight of Myth Drannor replied. 
"Before they could get here, it'll be sundown; they'd have to charge with the 
setting sun in their eyes."
Kuthe grunted his agreement and turned away. "No cooking fires until the tents 
are up!" he bellowed, "and don't drop those barrels of beer or I'll leave you to 
face the men who have to go thirsty!"
"Noisy, isn't he?" Torm muttered, critically inspecting the wicked-looking point 
he'd whittled on the end of one stake.
"A paragon of authority," Rathan grunted, taking a swig from his belt flask. 
"I've no quarrel if he's as much in evidence when we start hacking at each other 
in the mud and the blood." He took another pull at the flask, which gurgled.
Torm looked up at the sound. "Hey! Give that here," he suggested, extending a 
hand.
"What's this?" Kuthe growled, striding past. "Drinking?" His eyes flashed.
"He sees the flask and instantly knows what we're doing!" Torm gasped in mock 
fear. "Can no man stand against this tower of perception?"
"I fear not," Rathan growled. "He makes my boots quake, and me in them. Wits as 
keen as a sword bladeand tongue sharper, too!" Both Knights threw up their 
hands as if in awe and cowered, wailing.
"Bah!" the Rider officer snarled, and turned away. "Adventurers!"
"Bah!" Torm called after him, his mimicry perfect. "Stiff-necked local 
constabulary!"
Kuthe stiffened as more than one of the Riders around them chuckled, but did not 
turn around. After a moment, he strode on.
"Hind end of a blind boar," Torm muttered conversationally as they moved to the 
next stake.
"Torm's entertaining himself as usual, I see," Sharantyr observed to Sylune as 
they worked on their own stakes not far away.
The Witch of Shadowdale grinned. "He doesn't know it yet, but I volunteered him 
for digging the privies."
Sharantyr sighed. "You use the ladies' first, then. I've no wish to be the one 
who tries out his latest collection of 'humorous' traps."
"Does he do that to the pit for the men, too?" Itharr asked, looking up from the 
fire pit he and Belkram were digging. Sharantyr looked over at him and nodded. 
"Ah, thanks for the warning," the Harper grunted, and knelt to begin lining the 
pit with stones.
A pair of men in black armor emblazoned with the white horse of Mistledale 
approached with two large, rope-wrapped canvas bundles. "Your tent," the Riders 
told Itharr, "and one for the ladies."
"One is all well need," Sharantyr said serenely, moving to the last unsharpened 
stake. "I'm used to the snores of these two by now."
The Rider raised his eyebrows and looked her up and down. Sharantyr raised her 
own eyebrows in reply, and said coolly, "I'm an adventurer, remember?"
The man rolled his eyes and turned away, face expressionless behind his 
bristling mustache. His companion growled "Lucky dogs" quite distinctly as they 
went on down the line of stakes.
"If you knew," Belkram said to the Riders' backs. "If you only knew."
"I heard that," Sylune said warningly, and both Harpers looked up at her with 
such looks of bewildered innocence that she giggled.
Sharantyr puzzled out how the ropes were tangled, and got the tent unrolled. She 
hummed a merry tune as she laid it out, shaking her head to clear her nostrils 
of the strongand expectedreek of mildew. Such things were always put away 
damp. She critically surveyed the forest-green tent and its white horse blazon. 
"Does someone in the dale run a camp for bored Sembian nobles?"
"Aye," Belkram told her as the two Harpers came to join her, expertly plucking 
the poles out of the heart of the rumpled canvas. "But they're under the 
misapprehension that they're just housing the short-coin laborers who arrive 
each harvest to help get the crop off the fields it's not until they see their 
hired help at work in the fields that they realize how many bored Sembian nobles 
they're carrying."
Sharantyr chuckled at that as Belkram held the tent up with one pole, and Itharr 
crawled inside to raise it from within. "I could get used to having both of you 
gallant blades around," she said affectionately, fielding the tangle of tent 
rope that Sylune tossed to her.
"Just two of us? Is that enough to keep up with you?" Belkram asked with a grin.
"On some mornings," Sharantyr said, thrusting over his head the emptied sack 
that had held the tent pegs. "On some mornings."
"Mmpnffh," he replied firmly.
"Exactly what I was going to say," Itharr agreed, head emerging from the 
half-raised tent. "Mmphffh."
Sharantyr and Sylune sighed, smiled, and shook their heads in unison.
"Get him a bag, too," Torm suggested, pointing at Itharr as he walked past. "Me, 
too, and Rathan. After all, you know what they sayall men're the same with a 
bag over"
"Enough, Torm!" Sylune said, and snapped her fingers. The thief vanished in 
midstep, and they heard his surprised "Hoy!" of protest from the far end of the 
camp as he reappeared, looked around, and started back toward them.
"Poor Torm," Sharantyr said, watching him. "I wonder if hell ever grow into 
dignity and polite manners? I suppose he must grow up someday."
"For some of us," Sylune observed serenely, "it's a long walk."
Battledale, Flamerule
There was a sudden flash of emerald radiance from the empty saddle ahead, and 
Swordlord Amglar stiffened, hand going to the hilt of his swordjust in case.
Spellmaster Myarvuk rode ahead of the hitherto unladen horse, the mount under 
him linked to it by a long lead. Now he was twisting around to see what had 
befallen, clinging to his saddle in an ungainly attempt not to fall off. Amglar 
watched him in grim amusement. These wizards all rode with the grace and balance 
of lumpy sacks of feedand if the expression on Myarvuk's face was any guide, 
about as much comfort.
As both men stared at the green light pulsing and growing stronger in the 
saddle, Amglar watched the Zhentarim mage's tense face until, suddenly, he knew 
the new thing he was seeing there: fear.
A second empty-saddled horse pulled its lead free and galloped off to the right. 
The swordlord's gaze darted to it, but no radiance or other sign of magic 
appeared. If the gods smiled, perhaps there'd only be one high Zhentarim joining 
them.
Of course, given what utter ice-hearted bastards all powerful mages of the Black 
Network were, one was more than enough.
The emerald light had built into the shape of a seated man now, and the 
swordlord sighed amid the endless thunder of hooves. The rest of his time with 
the Sword of the South was not going to be enjoyableand might well encompass 
the rest of his life, given the ruthless and sensitive nature of senior 
Zhentarim.
The green radiance flashed and faded, revealing a richly cloaked man who sat his 
saddle as if he'd always been thereand was already looking grimly about, his 
face as black as old night.
At least this one could ride. Amglar forced a grim half smile onto his own face 
as the Zhent wizard turned to look behind him.
"For the glory of Zhentil Keep," the swordlord said in formal welcome. The 
wizard merely nodded curtly and turned his head away. Oh, joy. Getting this one 
to take the slightest notice of orders was going to be nigh impossible. Best 
start wading into the blood now, then. Amglar reined his horse in beside the 
galloping wizard. "Lord Manshoon sends his greetings, Spellmaster Thuldoum," 
Amglar said loudly, keeping his voice calm and unhurried. Young Myarvuk had lost 
his title, of course, the moment his superior here had arrived.
"Give me his message," Thuldoum said in bored tones, extending a gloved hand. "I 
do hope to find it still sealed."
"No message," Amglar returned calmly as they thundered on up the road toward the 
Standing Stone. "Manshoon farspoke me, and bade me pass on his feelings." If 
this warning had no effect, things were going to be a royal muddle from now on.
"I see," the senior Zhentarim replied in tones of clear disbelief. Amglar 
shrugged, letting the man see his gesture. Of course, most Zhentarim would see 
such nonchalance as the bravado of a fool, not the confidence of a man secure in 
his power. He was just going to have to educate this one differently.
"Myarvuk," the new arrival snapped grimly, obviously short on patience, 
"Baedelkar will not be joining us. Your duties will now include his."
The younger Zhentarim nodded in expressionless silence; Amglar knew he was 
wondering if this cheerful newcomer had been the cause of Baedelkar's 
disappearanceand if one Myarvuk would be the next wizard to drop out of sight 
forever when Nentor Thuldoum grew displeased.
He'd never worked with the man before, but knew that Thuldoum had been deadly in 
battle while riding out of the Citadel of the Raven against brigands, Thent-ian 
freehands, and all manner of goblinkin and monsters of Thar. Later the senior 
Zhentarim had come to Zhentil Keep to train battle mages for the Network; "Dull 
Doom" he'd been to his apprentices, due to his dry, studious manner and the 
short, ruthless temper it concealed. Not a man to cross. Nonetheless, Myarvuk, 
son of Thaelon, was going to do just that. Starting, in a small way, now.
"What was Baedelkar's fate?" Myarvuk asked, with the most casual 'I'd better 
know' tone he could muster.
"Dead," Nentor said shortly, "slain in his bed by"he shrugged to indicate that 
his next words were a guess"something he must have tried to summon." His mouth 
shut like a falling portcullis, making it plain that no more would be 
forthcoming about his absent apprentice. Then he turned his head to glare at 
Amglar again.
"Swordlord," he snapped, making it sound as if he'd been asking for it 
repeatedly and was growing impatient, "I await your report of the doings of the 
Sword thus far. Come up here where I can see you."
Amglar inclined his head in slow, silent acquiescence, and spurred his mount 
forward. Yes, it was going to be a long road to Shadowdale
Glorious Victories ARC ELtisioe Things
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, Flamerule
"Snug, my lord?" Shaerl asked, tightening the straps that held the plates around 
Mourngrym's upper thighs.
"Keep your fingers on the buckles," the lord of Shadowdale told his wife with an 
affectionate grin, reaching down to tousle her hair. They were alone in their 
bedchamber in the Tower of Ashaba, hiding Mourngrym's wounds from the wagging 
tongues of rumor. He didn't want half of Shadowdale fleeing because they'd heard 
he was dead.
It had been a very near thing. Without Blminster, Storm, or Sylune to hand, with 
the temples already crammed to the rafters with wounded, and with Lhaeo busy 
ransacking the heavily trapped cellars of Elmin-ster's Tower in search of 
healing potions and weapons, there were few people left in the dale who could 
deal with wounds caused by poisoned blades. A white-faced Shaerl had spent a 
long evening cutting open her lord, tears and his blood mingling together on her 
face as she brushed errant locks of hair out of her eyes and bent repeatedly to 
her grisly task.
Mourngrym winced as she forced a sideplate over the quilted undertunic on his 
ribs, which bulged where they shouldn't because of the bandages beneath. "Sorry, 
Mourn," she muttered, feeling his muscles tighten under her hands.
The lord of Shadowdale let out a sigh. "Don't be. Without you I'd be dead right 
now, and the dale fallen."
Shaerl made a rude noise. "Such dramatics! Do you think I'd flee or put a dagger 
in my heart if you died, when your killers and those who sent them will come 
marching into my reach in a few days?"
Mourngrym smiled and put out a handthe one without the gauntletto the side of 
her face, tilting her jaw up so that he could kiss her.
His wife, the fiery temper of her noble Rowanmantle upbringing lurking not far 
behind her eyes, kissed him with ardent passion, locking her fingers in his hair 
to ensure that this wouldn't be a brief brush of lips.
"Try not to get carved up this time," she chided him when she released him at 
last. "I don't want to spend another night like yestereve."
"As the dancer said to the high priest," Mourngrym murmured. Shaerl sighed at 
this, her lord's habit of lame Waterdhavian humor, and handed him his helm, 
sword, and remaining gauntlet.
Nodding in acknowledgment, the lord of Shadowdale said, "Now I really must get 
to horse." He strode awaybut before he'd taken three paces, she'd slipped 
around to bar his path, a slim but imperious hand slapped hard against the 
Amcathra arms emblazoned on his breastplate.
"Sword and gauntlet on and in place before you go out that doorand the helm 
before you set foot outside the tower. I don't want to be married to a headless 
man. They're not quite talkative enough."
Mourngrym sighed, smiled, and did as he was bid. It was easiest to comply, as 
always, and his sharp-tongued mate was rightas always. Who was to say a Zhent 
agent, or merely someone in need of the coins they'd pay, wasn't lurking a 
bowshot away from the tower, or in a balcony above the courtyard, awaiting his 
chance?
These past two rides Zhent raiders had kept Shadow-dale's defenders busy 
fighting off several attempts to burn the dale's smithy and granaries. There had 
also been the setting of several fires along the roads into the dale, no doubt 
to widen them and rob defenders of any cover; the attempt to taint the River 
Ashaba upstream by dumping carrion into it; and the poison dumped into the well 
of the Old Skull Innwhich had forced Lhaeo to call on the Simbul and endure her 
acidic lecture on placing a guard over basic necessities. The problem was that 
Mourngrym had too few competent guards to do that, let alone hold' Shadowdale 
against thousands of well-equipped Zhentilar troops led by gods-knew-how-many 
Zhent priests and mages.
"Wouldn't it be nice," he asked Shaerl as he settled the sword on his hip and 
she surveyed the result critically, "if some mad god or other would just crush 
Zhen-til Keep to rubble for us?"
"Ill see to it," she told him briskly, "but I'd take it more kindly if they'd 
settle for simply crushing the hosts on their way here to slaughter us  and if 
I knew where Elminster was just now."
"Boo!" breathed an all-too-familiar voice on the back of her neck.
Shaerl shrieked as she leapt forward into Mourn-grym's arms. The lord of 
Shadowdale began to laugh helplessly, shaking his ladyand she broke free and 
spun like a dancer on one small bare foot to confront the Old Mage, her eyes 
snapping with anger.
"Must you always creep up on folks invisibly and then try to startle them with 
grand entrances?"
"Everyone needs a hobby, look ye," Elminster said, regarding her with eyes that 
sparkled in amusement, "and that's one of mine."
"Well, find another! Gods! My heart's stillfeel it! It's"
"No, love," Mourngrym said hastily as the gleam in Elminster's eye grew 
brighter, "you don't want to make that sort of offer! Not with Elminster!"
Shaerl turned on him. "And you! Laughing at my discomfort, like a boy playing in 
the street! You ought to be"
"Somewhere quieter," Mourngrym said sarcastically, striding past her, "like the 
heart of a battle with the entire Zhent army!"
Shaerl made a gesture in his direction. Mourngrym waggled one steel-clad finger 
at her in mock admonishment, and went out.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed away her exasperation and turned back to 
Elminster. "Be welcome, Old Mage," she said softly. "I'd appreciate a chance to 
talk about what lies ahead for us, if you've the time."
"Tis why I came," Elminster rumbled, "now that my work at the Standing Stone is 
done: three arrow swarms, and a little something extra." He went straight to 
Mourngrym's most comfortable chair and sat down with a grunt of pleasure, 
swinging his feet up over one of its massive arms.
Shaerl smiled at that and started toward the sideboard where the decanters of 
wine awaitedbut she'd taken only a few steps before a full goblet of her 
favorite vintage came gliding up to hang in the air in front of her. She took 
it, turned, and saw Elminster raising an identical drink in salute. "To a lady 
who does not take serious contributions from idiots," he announced.
Shaerl grinned, shook her head slightly, and returned his toast. "To a wizard 
who takes more delight in misbehaving than does a small childand is all the 
more welcome here for it."
They both drank. Shaerl discovered the bottom of her glass, shrugged, and 
continued to the sideboard to take up the decanter. She had a feeling she was 
going to want a lot more of this before they were done
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule
"Dusk comes swiftly," Swordlord Amglar told the two wizards, pointing at the red 
sun glimmering low in the west.
"We press on," Nentor Thuldoum told him coldly. "If we try to camp at the 
Standing Stone, we'll be in the trees or strung out along three roadsand we can 
be attacked along each one."
"So much is common knowledge," Amglar agreed calmly. "I merely wish to point out 
that if we press on to Mistledale, it'll be dark by the time we ride out of the 
treesideal conditions for our foes to ambush us."
The spellmaster turned on him with menacing slowness. "Are you trying to tell me 
what to do?"
"Yes," Amglar said evenly, locking eyes with him. "That's exactly what I'm 
trying to do. Manshoon does expect you to take orders from me; his description 
of you, as I recall, was 'a fool, but a biddable fool.' Shall I report to him 
that he was wrong?"
Thuldoum held his eyes for a long, cold moment as their saddles creaked under 
them. Myarvuk, riding just ahead, hummed a tune, trying to pretend he could hear 
nothing of this. Thuldoum said softly, "I'm watching you, Swordlord. Watching 
and waiting for the slightest slip, the smallest excuse be careful. Be very, 
very careful."
Amglar raised his eyebrows, but his face remained expressionless. "I always am," 
he said, and the spell-master could have sworn that the warrior's eyes held a 
glint of mocking laughter.
Then they were slowing to round the turn onto the Moonsea Ride under the 
watchful bulk of the ancient Standing Stone. There was a brief confusion as 
mounted Zhentilar armsmen looked back expecting orders to halt, heard nothing, 
and rather tentatively con- tinued, heading west toward Mistledale.
The rings on the spellmaster's hands winked with sudden radiance, and the air 
all around was filled with humming arrows. Shafts leapt from the trees on their 
left, hissing into startled men and their mounts alike, easily piercing black 
Zhentilar armor.
"We're under attack!" someone bellowed.
"Dismount! Into the trees therecharge!" Amglar shouted, pointing with his 
sword. "In at them!"
His orders made Spellmaster Thuldoum turn to him, and Amglar saw that the wizard 
was staring down at his rings in astonishment. As they looked at each other, the 
rings flashed againand another volley of arrows came hissing out of the trees 
on the other side of the road.
Amglar's eyes narrowed as he ducked low on his horse's neck, but it was too late 
to stop the rush of furious armsmen into the trees, charging in as he'd ordered. 
Horses screamed and reared, and men toppled from saddles everywhere in the 
tangled intersection. The swordlord fought to stay in his saddle.
"Back, mages!" he bellowed, waving with his sword toward the Standing Stone 
itself. "Back!"
By some favor of the gods, neither Zhentarim had been hit; they spurred their 
horses after him, ruthlessly riding down armsmen in their haste. 
"Swordcap-tains, to me!" Amglar roared as he reached the trees to the east, his 
eyes on the woods to the north. If his hunch was right, there'd be no more 
arrows from therenor any other attack.
"Is this your doing, mage?" he snarled when a frightened-looking spellmaster 
rode up to him.
"No!" Thuldoum barked. "If these arrows are spell-borne, it's not a magic I 
know! I"
His rings flashed once more. He was staring down at them in horror when the 
trees on the eastern side of the road erupted in clothyard shafts! An arrow took 
Amglar through the shoulder, and another three thudded into his charger. Yelling 
in pain and fury, he flung himself free as it bucked and went down, crashing 
over backward atop an unfortunate armsman.
He hit the road hard and bounced in the dust, winded. Myarvuk slid from his 
saddle, half a dozen shafts standing out from his body and a glazed, lifeless 
stare in his eyes. Gods spit on itthe truly biddable mage down already!
As Amglar fought for his breath, arrows flared into flames and then nothingness 
around the spellmaster, who must have some sort of magical shield against 
themof course, Amglar thought sourly. But the volley tore into the officers 
turning in answer to his call. The intersection was full of rolling, maddened 
horses and sprawled, trampled bodies in just a few breaths half an army had 
been reduced to bloody chaos.
"Halt!" Amglar roared, struggling to his feet, arm and shoulder burning. He ran 
into the path of the second 'lance,' just as they came thundering up the road to 
see what had occurred. "Halt!"
He staggered hastily backa thousand cantering horses can't stop 
immediatelytripped on a body, and with a roar of pain fetched up against a 
tree.
"Sir?" A swordcaptain asked, beside him. Through red mists of pain, Amglar set 
his teeth and looked up. Blood was coursing down his arm, bright red on the 
black armor; he clutched at his arm and snarled, "Get a horn and call the rally 
and retreat to those I sent into the woods. They'll not find a foe unless they 
run on all the way to the dale! Then relay the order to halt! On your way, send 
three or four more captains to me!"
The man nodded and hurried away, wasting no time on salutes or words. Amglar 
glared after him. Good. At least one Zhentilar knew how to be an officer; he'd 
have to remember that man's face.
Feeling the spellmaster's eyes on him but paying no attention, Amglar strode to 
meet the officers who were hurrying toward him. "Clear this place," he ordered.
"Drag everything up the north road, and set torches; we'll strip the bodies 
later. Slay any horse that can't stand on four good legs. Let no man touch the 
fallen magethat task is for the spellmaster alone." Without turning his head, 
he snapped, Thuldoum! Be about it."
The Zhentarim said nothing, but Amglar heard the creaking of leather as the 
wizard dismounted, and a snort of irritation from the man's horse as someone 
else took the reins.
"I want you to know," the spellmaster said in a low, fast voice, "that I had no 
part in this attack. It was not my doingand nothing I carry has any power to 
hurl arrows anywhere!"
"I know, mage," Amglar said shortly. "It was some sort of arrow spellthree 
spells, belikeset to go off when something enchanted passed by: your rings. 
They're probably rolling around laughing in Mistledale right now. See to your 
dead comrade."
He walked away without looking at the Zhentarim and headed to the front of the 
lance that had halted on the road. He would tell them to dismount and set a 
watch in the trees in case there were archers or rangers lurking out there.
Dead men lay heaped underfoot. Someone was groaning weakly under a pile of 
bodies off to the right. Amglar scowled. A swordlord's lot is not a happy one.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule
"Who goes?" The challenge came out of the night. The voice sounded young and 
eager, and its owner was probably holding a loaded crossbow. Jhessail sighed and 
spoke quickly before Illistyl or Merith could say anything smart. "Owls are blue 
tonight," she told the darkness calmly. "Kuthe's patrol, with three Knights of 
Myth Drannor. I am Jhessail of Shadowdale."
"Pass, Lady," the voice said, sounding suddenly respectful, even wistful.
An admirer, then, probably a Harper. Merith laid a hand on his lady's thigh and 
squeezed. Leaning close, the elf whispered, "Men who lust after you are 
everywhere in the Realms, it seems. Truly I am fortunate to have arrived in your 
arms first, and"
"Oh, do belt up, dear," Jhessail said, grinning.
"Aye," Illistyl's sharp tones came out of the close darkness on Jhessail's other 
side. "And forthwith, before I spew!"
"If ye can stand the company of the two blades she's picked up, who both fancy 
themselves cleverBelkram and Itharr of the HarpersSharantyr's left room and a 
warm fire for ye," the gruff tones of Rathan came to them out of the night.
"Kind of her," Jhessail said, "but we're going right back out after we feed and 
hobble our horses. We're going to be a little surprise in the Zhentarim backside 
on the morrow!"
"Ye'll probably lift a few eyebrows hereabouts, too, if ye try charging on 
hobbled horses!" Rathan chuckled.
"We're leaving the horses here, you dolt," Jhessail told him affectionately. 
"Where's Term?"
"He felt restless, and wanted to go 'exploring,' as he put it," the burly priest 
replied. "So I gave him a little too much wine and smote him one. He'll wake 
before dawn, in. just the right mood for a good battle."
"I'm glad it's you who shares a tent with him," Illistyl said feelingly.
"I'll be only too happy to surrender my sleeping furs to thee, gentle maid," 
Rathan said eagerly, "and I'm sure Term won't object in the slightest!"
"Ah, ha!" Illistyl agreed flatly. "I doubt he'd mind, indeed." She rode on, 
turning to add, "111 save my furious defenses for the fray tomorrow."
"I rather think we all will, lass," the elderly voice of a dale farmer came 
gruffly out of the nearby darkness.
"Or we'll be dead before another night comes down on the Realms."
*****
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule
"Galath's Roost is the only logical place to camp for the nightthat's the 
problem," Swordlord Amglar said to the silent ring of officers around the map.
"What problem?" Spellmaster Thuldoum said sharply. For some hours now, he'd been 
trying to overcome his own fright and whispers of incompetence or disloyalty by 
playing the sharp-tongued aggressor. Everyone in earshot was tired of it.
"I mean, wizard," Amglar explained in wearily patient tones that brought secret 
smiles to the lips of a few swordcaptains, "that it's the place our foes expect 
us. Just as they knew we'd pass by this spot."
He waved at the road behind them and the dark and silent bulk of the Standing 
Stone beyond. Three hundred armsmen and six score war horses lay dead along the 
north road, heaped cottage-high under the stars and already the wolves were 
howling, nearer each time. Amglar tried not to think of the fallen. The dead 
were beyond his orders; it was the living he had to worry about.
"So?" the Zhentarim said coolly. "They hardly have enough blades to hold a ruin 
against us, even in the dark. And my spells can make it bright as day, so our 
archers can keep to the night and strike down well-lit targets as they please."
"I'm thinking there'll be traps there, not defenders," Amglar said heavily. "I 
don't suppose you can see into the place from here, can you? Or better: let our 
veteran swordcaptains look at things. They'll know traps better than either of 
us." To say anything else might make this Spellmaster hurl spells in a fury, and 
after what had befallen so far, that would be all the Sword of the South needed.
The Zhentarim was shaking his head. "No, it's much too far to send an eye. I'd 
have to have seen the hold before with my own eyes to scry it with any of the 
other magics I carry."
"You've nothing that can help us?" One of the three lancecaptains said, not 
bothering to keep the contempt out of his voice. The spellmaster made a silent 
show of looking him up and down and committing his face to memory, but all of 
them knew any hostile move the wizard made in this gathering would result in his 
death. Not a few of the personal belt daggers around the map would be poisoned, 
too.
"You're a brave man, sir of the lance," Nentor Thuldoum said in silken tones, 
"if a foolhardy one. A wizard of the Network always has something that can be 
turned to use, and it's always more than his foesand others," he added 
pointedly, staring around at the impassive soldiers' faces, "expect. I have a 
spell ready that can create a beast to explore the ruins for us but only I will 
be able to see through its eyes."
"And if there's an enemy wizard at the Roost?" Amglar asked quietly. "Will such 
a one be able to see you through itand send any magic through you, to strike us 
here?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "In fact, it's unlikely that any wizard who meets my 
creature will escape alive."
"Cast your spell, then," Amglar ordered, his voice riding over a murmur of 
disbelief at the wizard's words from the officers. "The sooner we know, the 
sooner we can act."
"Stand back," the wizard said curtly. "All of you." He drew himself up and 
glared around at the black-armored menand their sullen faces. "Let no man 
disturb my casting, on pain of death. Lord Manshoon's standing orders apply here 
as in the Keep."
By the time the last of those words left his mouth,
Nentor Thuldoum stood alone in the center of an open space perhaps twelve paces 
across, ringed by a warily silent audience. He looked around at them and smiled. 
Good; the more who saw this, the better.
From the safe pouch at his belt, Thuldoum drew a small sphere of blown glass 
that held a veined, gelatinous mass trapped in its heart. He held it on his 
fingertips, and for the benefit of the assembled soldiers murmured an 
incantation that was far longer and more impressive than it needed to be.
Then he made a dramatic and totally unnecessary gesture, and blew the sphere 
gently out of his palm. It plunged to the hard-trodden earth in front of him and 
burst with a tiny singing sigh.
A drunken man's nightmare boiled up from where it had been, growing with 
frightening speed, rearing up until it was larger than a horse. Men gasped and 
backed away in gratifying alarm; the spellmaster smiled tightly at them and 
pointed west and a little south, into the trees. His creation gathered itself up 
and drifted obediently off across the road, soldiers scrambling to get out of 
its way.
It was a shapeless bulk of translucent gray-white jelly that swam and flowed 
constantly. Countless staring eyes and silently snapping mouths slid across its 
changing outer surface, appearing and disappearing with bewildering speed.
"A mouther!" one of the veteran armsmen gasped. The drifting thing did look like 
the deadly gibbering mouther of yore though no gibberer had ever risen man-high 
off the ground and flown about at a wizard's bidding, so far as Thuldoum knew.
Then it was gone into the trees, and his world became a place of dark trunks and 
branches and shifting shadows, looming up before him, thick and tangled
"Bring me a seat," he said, not breaking his vision from his creation, "and 
something safe to drink. Someone who knows traps and castles should stand by me, 
toowe'll both have questions to ask each other when my creature reaches the 
Roost."
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule
Galath's Roost had been blasted apart four centuries ago by mages who knew their 
business. Since that day, the small keep atop its stony height had been 
swallowed by the forest. Massive duskwoods and cedars rent what was left of its 
walls and yet held them up, their trunks cupping chambers that were open to the 
sky and walls that ran to nowhere. Their leaves all but hid the riven keep from 
view but if one stood a little way off and in just the right spot, the faint 
flicker of a fire glimmered through the trees.
The room whence the fire came had one wall open to the nightbut the two 
pilgrims who'd built the fire and now huddled around it had good and prudent 
reasons for not choosing any of the better-preserved rooms in the Roost. They 
were discussing that now.
"A good job, they did," the taller one said grudgingly.
"You're certain they left this room safe?" asked the other, clutching his 
expensive talisman of the god under his chin. The gilded image of Tyr's 
warhammer and scales shone back the firelight, serene and unchanging.
"All but that door," the first one replied, pointing. "If you go out that, a 
very large crate of rubble will fall on you."
"Ah," said the other. "I'd best go water the gods' gardens out the way we came 
in, then." He sipped from a battered tin cup, making no move to get up, and 
added, "A good thing we found that cellar, or they'd have seen us, sure."
"That was no cellar," his tall, lean companion chuckled, scratching under his 
much-patched tunic. "That was the castle cesspit."
"What?" the shorter pilgrim said, staring down at his boots and then at his 
elbows and his cloakbut finding no foulness. "Is my nose as bad as all that, 
then?"
"After four hundred years," his companion told him kindly, "dung is just dust."
"Huh," the shorter pilgrim agreed, and launched into a dry chuckle that ended in 
a fit of coughing. "I guess the Realms're covered deep in old dung, then. 
Urrrgh. Auh." These last two comments accompanied a grunting attempt to risean 
attempt that ended in a disgusted wave of one dirty hand, and a return to a more 
or less comfortable lounging position against a pile of moss-cloaked rubble.
In all the activity, neither devotee of Tyr noticed a dark, many-eyed bulk 
slithering silently out of the night, over the stones in the ruined end of the 
room. As they decided aloud that a prayer to the Lord of Justice might be 
prudent before they wandered off into the woods to relieve themselves, the thing 
of eyes and jaws crept unnoticed toward them.
"'Tis your turn to begin the devotion," the shorter pilgrim mumbled.
"Do it be in truth, Jarald? Or've you just forgotten the words to the Call of 
the Just again?"
"I've not! I remember them well!" the shorter pilgrim said heatedly. "Will you 
plague me with the misdeed of one night down all the years to come?" Behind him, 
unseen in the flickering confusion where the firelight played on a broken end of 
stone wall, something that swam with many eyes and hungry mouths reared up, 
looming darker and larger, drifting tendrils of itself across the ceiling to 
hang above the two oblivious pilgrims.
"I don't rightly know," his taller companion said, with a slow grin. "How long 
did you plan to go on living?"
From the darkness above came a sudden swift movement
War Comes Co Misdale
The fire was dying down; he'd have to make this swift. The taller pilgrim 
cleared his throat, lurched forward from a seated position to his knees, and 
began. "Hear us, O Great Balance, as we hear thee! From our knees we cry to 
theeeee/"
His words ended in a surprised cry as he raised his eyes to the firelit 
ceilingand found himself staring at an oozing, descending blob of jelly that 
swam with jaws and eyeballs! And all of those eyeballs were staring at him!
The horrid thing lunged at him, seven or more sets of fangs biting the air 
hungrily as they came. The pilgrim flung himself backward and to his feet, out 
of reach, and the thwarted reaching thing turned with fearsome speed and struck 
at the other pilgrim.
The shorter man was already on his feet, watching the monster with a 
surprisingly calm expression of curiosity on his face. He sidestepped the 
attacking tendriland found a second questing arm reaching down, almost upon 
him. He was trapped between them. As they reached in, he shrugged and grimaced.
An instant later, the many-fanged mouths opened wide for their first savage 
strikebut the pilgrims were gone. Two clouds of dark, whirling globules stood 
for an instant where the men had been. And then the jaws bit down. On nothing.
The globules crashed to the floor in a red rain that spattered the stones and 
put the hissing fire out. Amid the sudden smoke of its dying, the floor ran with 
small puddles that moved together with purposeful speed.
The many-fanged monster peered suspiciously around the room and came slowly free 
of the ceiling to gather itself into a floating sphere of questing eyes and 
gnashing teeth. It echoed the dumbfounded astonishment of the distant Zhentarim 
who'd created it; he'd never seen anything of the like before. Was this a spell? 
Were the two pilgrims of Tyr doppelgangers who'd learned a new trick? Or  
something else?
The floating monster glared around the ruined chamber, but nothing moved except 
the thick, dark red fluid on the floor. Two holy symbols lay amid the moving 
gore, and tin cups and scabbarded swords and knives leaned where the pilgrims 
had left them, but their clothes were gone. The monster bent its gaze again on 
the moving liquid.
Slowly, as if with great effort, the red fluid was gathering, joining into two 
ever-widening pools. The creature watched for a long time; the pools became two 
rising, glistening red humps. Purposefully the fanged thing flew across the 
chamber to hang above one pool, and extended a forest of mouths with questing 
tongues, intending to suck up the pool.
With surprising speed, the pool leapt upward to meet it, roaring in a red column 
that plunged into all the waiting mouths. The fanged creature darkened, 
shudderedand flew apart in a wet explosion of staring eyeballs and slime.
Gelatinous fragments of its riven body were flung to the far corners of the 
rubble-strewn room but before they could stain the walls or floor, these wet 
remnants faded silently away into the air, as if they had never been.
The swordcaptains standing around Nentor Thul-doum nearly swallowed their 
tongues in startled fear when the wizard let out a sudden raw scream, clawed 
blindly and convulsively at them all, and then flung himself back in his seat, 
clutching at his head. The wordless wet gargle in his throat rose again into a 
screaming, a high keening that went on and on and men pulled back from the 
reeling Zhentarim and drew their blades. They shivered.
"What should we do, Lord?" a swordcaptain asked, hurrying to where Swordlord 
Amglar sat watching, his back against the ancient bulk of the Standing Stone.
The commander looked up expressionlessly at the anxious officer and shrugged. 
"Either this passes, or it doesn't. If the latter, well put arrows through him 
from well away until he falls silent, and then burn the body." Amglar reached 
for the wineskin and goblet that sat on the grass beside him, and his lips 
curved into a mirthless grin. "Wizards are all like that, inside," he told the 
swordcaptain softly. "If their control is ever broken, all the screaming and 
wide-eyed raving bursts out, for us all to see."
The man shivered. "What does that to wizards, Lord?"
Amglar shrugged. "It's but magic sweeping away restraint. Mages are just men and 
maids like all the rest of us. The problem with our kindly Zhentarim is that 
they all seem to forget that."
In a ruined chamber deep in the night-cloaked woods, two columns of dark, 
glistening liquid grew slowly darker and more solid, shifting into manlike 
shapes. One sharpened into the likeness of the shorter pilgrim while the other 
was still a glistening humanoid, eyes and mouth just swimming into view on a 
face of red slime.
"That body?" the unfinished one asked disgustedly.
"Again?"
"You'd prefer this?" The shorter pilgrim flickered and slid, its clothes and 
bristles melting away into ivory-skinned voluptuousness. A breathtakingly 
beautiful female human caressed itself provocatively, posing with its hands in a 
magnificent fall of flame-red hair.
"Where'd you see that?* the unfinished one asked.
The second Malaugrym smiled. "Well, it's a long story"
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, early Flamerule
"Is there more moongleam?" Elminster asked hopefully, holding out his goblet.
Chin on hand, Shaerl shook her head. "Not this side of the cellars, and I'm in 
no state to climb stairs now. Not aftergods, Old Mage, it's been six bottles! 
Doesn't wine touch you?"
"No," Elminster told her. "I just like the taste."
Shaerl rolled her eyes. "Of course. Silly of me even to think you'd get tipsy, 
or take headaches from wine, like mere mortals."
"Look ye, lass, it took me the better part of a year to get the spell rightand 
after all that, Mystra laughed and changed me with a wave of her hand! I could 
have saved myself hoursnay, daysof painstaking research!"
"Aye," Shaerl agreed dryly. "I can see how long and hard it would have been, 
drinking every night away to see how long it took you to start reeling, and 
if'twas different than the night before."
"That's not how I did it, lass!" Elminster growled at her.
Shaerl spread her hands in apology and sighed. "I'd have more sympathy, El, if I 
didn't look in the mirror every morn and see myself getting older, fast. Not all 
that long ago I was ordering my gowns slit thigh-high to catch the eyes of young 
blades at feasts, and having gowns made to match so my parents wouldn't see 
until the coach was around the first bend, and I could strip them off! Now I 
couldn't even get into any of those gowns if I still dared to dress like that!"
"Why don't ye dare dress like that?" the Old Mage asked, trying to peer around 
the edge of the table to see her ankles. "A few years and a child don't ruin 
one's legs!"
"But they do add to one's belly. Never mind about me you know what I'm talking 
about, Old Mage. You've had centuriesand may well have centuries more. Ill be 
lucky to see sixty summers."
* Tis not the shining thing ye think it, this longevity," Elminster told her 
gravely. "I bury friends every day, it seems and one grows so tired of it all. 
If ye didn't need me so sorely in the days ahead, twould be so easy to just bid 
it all good-bye and lie down in a tomb somewhere to dream the ages away but ye 
always need me/
"I do?" Shaerl asked challengingly, but hastily added, "No offense, Old Mage."
Elminster waved a dismissive hand. "Not ye personallythou art one of the bright 
spots, lass. Cormyrean noble ladies who can think for themselves are rarer than 
they should be! I meant the Realms in general, and Shadowdale in particular. 
There's something here that the gods need very badly just nowand I must guard 
it from them."
"Ah, with us caught in the middle, as usual," Shaerl said sarcastically. 
"Wonderful."
"Ye wanted adventure when ye left the castle of thy father," Elminster reminded 
her. "So ye took the oath to Azoun and joined Vangerdahast's service, were sent 
to Shadowdale and promptly married the man ye were sent to spy on so here ye 
are. Too late by far to criticize the bed ye made for thyself, dear."
"I know," Shaerl replied in exasperation. She got up, leaning on the table for 
support, and then strode rest- lessly about the room. "It's just"
She threw up her hands in surrender, whirled around, and ran to the old wizard, 
flinging her arms around him.
"I'm just so scared, El," she said, tears standing in her eyes as she stared 
into his. Her lower lip trembled. "Every time Mourn goes out that door, I think 
it's the last time I'll see him alive. Zhentil Keep attacks us every 
gods-be-damned spring and now the entire world seems torn apart, with gods 
everywhere and ores and brigands, and magic going wild! Mourn needs me to be 
strong, I know, when what I want to do is run away from it all, just the two of 
us, and"
"The two of us? Ye and this old wizard? Miss, I'll remind ye that ye're 
married!" Elminster said primly.
"I meant Mourngrym, you dolt," Shaerl said scornfully, voice wavering on the 
edge of tears.
"I know ye did, little one," Elminster said. He folded her gently into his arms. 
That brought the explosion of sobs he'd known it would. He held the lady of 
Shadow-dale, murmuring comforting promises and stroking her hair until her tears 
were spent.
She lifted her head from his breast at last, red eyed and wild haired, and 
blinked at him tremulously, morose thanks in her eyes.
"Ah, ye're done!" Elminster said brightly. "Now, how about that wine?"
"Ooohh!" In mock rage Shaerl snatched up a cushion from the chair and belted him 
with it.
"That's better," the Old Mage said gruffly, through the rain of blows. "Beat the 
wits out of the only arch-mage left to defend Shadowdale, that's a smart girl."
Shaerl let fall the cushion as if its touch suddenly burned her fingers. 
"Sorry," she whispered, turning her head away.
Elminster chuckled and clapped her shoulder. "I was jesting, lass. Why don't ye 
settle into a slightly more cozy position on my lapone in which thy knee isn't 
pressing hard into this old bladder, mindan' I tell ye all the wild tales about 
which avatar is walking where in Faerun, and what a mess they're making of 
things. When ye're thoroughly scared, I'll pass on to news of the main Zhent 
army, currently being warmly entertained in Voonlar by several hobgoblin hands I 
sent thence  ah, dropped literally atop their camp, actually."
Shaerl giggled. "I wish I'd been there to see that," she said. "Has it thinned 
the Zhent host appreciably?"
Elminster nodded. "Moreover, I'm not done yet. It's taken me until now to locate 
my favorite hobgoblin tribethe Nose Bonesso they'll be er, dropping in on our 
Zhent friends just before dawn."
"Taken you until now?" Shaerl said in mock alarm. "Why, whatever have you been 
doing?"
"Holding the Realms together, lass," Elminster told her rather grimly, "and 
fighting off various old foes who've decided to take advantage of the Fall of 
the Gods to conquer or destroy as much of Faerun as they can seizethe 
Malaugrym, in particular, have been troublesome."
"Those Who Walk in Shadow?" Shaerl asked, eyes grave. "Storm and I have talked 
about them several times, after one attacked you at the inn and you wouldn't 
tell us anything. They sounded deadly, indeed."
"Ah, but I've acquired three heroes to deal with them now," Elminster said, 
holding out to her a goblet that shouldn't have been full.
Shaerl stared at it suspiciously, sipped it, and then peered into it again. It 
was still fullor rather, full again. She gave Elminster a look.
The Old Mage spread his hands with an air of innocence.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed. "So who are these three mighty ones?"
"Sharantyr and two Harpers; men who came to Storm for training."
Shaerl stared at him, mouth open. "The three rangers? Against spell-hurling 
shapeshifters? El, they'll be kiltedr
Elminster shrugged. "That fate could well befall us all in the days ahead. I 
can't be everywhere, especially now, with bindings failing and magic twisting 
awry all across Toril. My valiant three've done well enough thus far, I must 
say. Even if they all perish forthwith, they've dealt the House of Malaug a 
shrewd blow."
"Will you write that on their tombs?" Shaerl asked quietly.
Elminster shrugged but said nothing. After a long silence, the lady of 
Shadowdale whispered, "What will you write on ours?"
The ghost of a smile stole across the Old Mage's face. "Perhaps: I should have 
been laid to rest here long ago, but I'm still busy defending Shadowdale."
"Oh, no," she said quietly, shaking her head as the bedchamber door opened and a 
weary Mourngrym strode in, tossing down cloak, helm, and sword. "That's what 
your tomb should say."
"It already does, lass. Ask Lhaeo to show ye some timeon the morrow. It's a 
good place to hide with thy heir, if the dale's overrun. Oh, in case he forgets 
to tell yedon't mind all the floating eyeballs that'll drift around after ye. 
They do no harm and if the food runs out, they're good eating."
"Is he teasing you about fried eyeballs again?" Mourngrym asked as he strode 
into the room. Without slowing to hear Shaerl's reply, he bent over the chair to 
kiss the top of her head, and then looked up at Elminster as the soft fingers of 
his wife stole up to stroke his cheek. "And what's this about 'hide'? And 
'overrun'? With you here holding the dale against all invaders?"
"We must all fall sometime," Elminster replied very quietly. "That's why I've 
been grooming every hero I could find these last ten years or so. Someday, 
defending Shadowdale without me will be your task. Perhaps someday soon."
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule
The spellmaster's screams broke off suddenly, and he slumped forward in his 
seat. Hesitantly one of the swordcaptains took a few paces toward the wizard, 
sword drawn, and then looked back to the swordlord for instructions. Other 
officers with ready weapons were also gathering cautiously around the seated 
wizard.
"Is he dead?" Amglar asked bluntly. The swordcap-tain turned to see, taking a 
few paces closerand then shrank back in horror as sudden radiances flashed and 
spun around the body, jerking it convulsively.
Amglar's eyes narrowed. Contingencies, perhaps not attacks visited from afar, 
no.
His judgment was confirmed an instant later as the Zhentarim shook himself and 
stood, looking around irritably at all the grim faces and raised swords. "Put 
away all this steel," he snapped, "and find something useful to dosuch as 
getting me a hot meal. Spellhurl-ing's hungry work."
The swordcaptain Amglar had just given orders to turned back to the swordlord 
and spread his hands in a silent question. Amglar waved at him to 'hold hard' 
for the nonce, got up, and strode over to Thuldoum.
"How are you, mage?" he asked, putting his hand on the hilt of his sword.
"I'll live," Thuldoum said coldly, "and my wits are my own; you need not hack me 
down for fear I'll turn on you all."
"The Roost's defended, then?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "It's deserted. A little overgrown and tumbledown to 
be an ideal camp, but safe enough."
"Safe? Why the screaming then?"
"My creation encountered two beings who can shift shape. They were camped in one 
of the rooms."
"Doppelgangers? If they impersonate our swordcaptains, they can play merry death 
and chaos with this Sword!"
These weren't doppelgangers," Nentor Thuldoum said grimly. "One of them tried to 
merge with my monster, destroying it. I was held in thrall, and saw into its 
mind. It was old, very old, and it hates Elminster of Shadowdale more than you 
or I do; possibly more than High Lord Manshoon does. They've been feuding for 
centuries."
"And so?"
"It also hates three other humans I don't know; they looked like rangers. It 
thinks all of them are in Mistle-dale right now and was headed there to feed on 
them, the moment it was satisfied the human shape I saw it ina pilgrim of 
Tyrwas good enough to fool them."
"You think these two shapechangers are on the way to Mistledale by now?"
"Yes," the Zhentarim said flatly. "I couldn't break free until it ate the 
monster's mind, but the last thought I overheard was that it was eager to get to 
its prey."
"Then we'll be just as urgent in our advance on the Roost, once you set us a 
directional spell so we can get there through the woods, and not have to use the 
road and the open dale."
"The moment I've eaten," the spellmaster told him coldly, "you'll have that 
spell. The drink, I think, is even more important right now."
Wordlessly Amglar undipped a chased metal flask from his belt and held it out. 
The Zhentarim regarded it and then him suspiciously, then in sudden resolve 
undid the stopper and took a sipthen a long pull.
When he could stop gasping, the spellmaster wiped at his numbed lips and asked, 
"B-By all the gods, what is that stuff?"
"Firewine," Amglar told him, surprised. "You don't get out much, do you, 
wizard?"
"Enough," Thuldoum told him darkly. "More than enough."
"Spellmaster?" A swordcaptain was hurrying up with a covered platter that 
trailed wisps of steam. "Your evenfeast!"
"Ah, that's better," Thuldoum said, and turned to Amglar. "You see, Swordlord? 
Properly treated, I will deal with you properly in return just like any man. 
You might remember that."
"Aye," the swordlord said, remembering Myarvuk's still, staring face as they 
buried him. "I will keep it in mindalways."
Mistledale, Flamerule
The larger of the two owls fluttered down to a branch on the edge of the dale, 
and grew a human mouth. "Best be wary," it said to the owl alighting beside it. 
"They may have spying spells setand a single arrow could slay us in these 
shapes."
"Take on something larger, Yinthrim?"
"No," the larger Malaugrym said firmly. "That'd just invite discovery and attack 
 and they'll have mages about. No, Atari, just take care. After we avenge the 
despoiled honor of the House of Malaug, let us return here and await the dawn. 
On a battlefield, amusements will be many."
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule
"Yes?" Sylune inquired, turning from her lamp and mirror and raising an 
imperious eyebrow. On either side of the tent door, Belkram and Itharr stared 
out and raised their blades warily, waiting.
"Your servant, Lady," said the voice outside. A man's voice. A familiar man's 
voice.
"Yes, Torm?" Sylune asked, a trifle wearily. The two Harpers relaxed, trading 
grins across the dim tent mouth. "Come to undress me? Or just to collect all 
your Lingerie?"
"No," the thief said in a low voice. "May I come in?"
Sylune turned to Sharantyr, who nodded. The three Harpers were sleeping in all 
but their boots, drawn swords to hand, and had already lain down. The Witch of 
Shadowdale was sitting up before a mirror, looking at the body she might well 
lose again on the morrow. "Yesbut leave your pranks outside the door. I'm not 
in the mood."
"Your command is my wish, as I believe Elminster once said," Torm said with just 
a hint of his usual imp-ishness, looking warily into the tent. Belkram and 
Itharr saluted him silently with their blades; he answered them with a sardonic 
lift of his brows, and stepped into the tent. He was holding something behind 
his back.
Sylune turned on her stool to face him. With the candlelight behind her, 
lighting her silver hair into flame, she looked unearthly as well as beautiful. 
"Well, Torm?"
"I  ah, I came to do your hair," Torm said, bringing a fistful of combs and a 
tiny scent bottle into view. All four folk in the tent stared at him, and his 
face grew pinker. Looking down at his hands, he said, "I seem to Have grown used 
to it." He looked up at Sylune. "If you
The smile that the Witch of Shadowdale gave him then took his heart away. Torm 
swallowed as she stretched forth her hands to him. "Mind? I am honored. Please!"
As Torm stepped forward, eyes shining, Belkram said kindly, "Haul your tongue 
in, there's a good boy. We've done the tent floor already, and you'll look more 
sensible with it safely stowed away."
Sharantyr shot her comrade a sharp look, but Torm did not even turn around.
"I know it's been said before," he said calmly, "but if you go around giving 
folk a piece of your clever mind, Bel-kram, soon enough you'll have none left 
for yourself."
Belkram spread his hands in apology. "Aye, it's the real Torm. Sorry for 
shattering your gesture, sir. With all these shapeshifters around, one can't be 
too careful."
Torm rounded on him then. " Too careful'?" he asked, incredulously. "You folk 
make berserkers look like timid moles! When you discover what the word 'careful' 
means, come and tell me! You certainly haven't displayed any great store of it 
thus far! I doubt Elmin-ster'd dare to do what you have let alone this thief!"
"He's right, you know," Sharantyr said with a chuckle.
"Of course he's right," Itharr told her. "We've just been charging ahead as fast 
as we could into peril after peril, hoping the gods, our foes, and ourselves 
alike wouldn't notice what reckless fools we're being, and pay us off for it! 
And now he's gone and spoiled it, and on the eve of battle, too! Bad thief! 
Naughty, naughty bad thief!"
The tent erupted in helpless laughter. In the night outside, two Rider sentries 
exchanged wondering glances, and shook their heads.
"Harpers and adventurers crazed wits, if you ask me," one said feelingly.
"No argument here," his fellow replied, watching the darkness around warily. 
Something glided pastand he tensed to shout and hurl his spearuntil he saw 
that it was only an owl. Another owl flapped along in its wake. Now that was 
something rarely seen.
The guard frowned at the two birds as the night swallowed them again. He 
shrugged. As long as they weren't arrows, dragons, or flying wizards, things in 
the sky were no concern of his. He yawned and peered all around again, seeking 
real danger.
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule
"The wizard said it was deserted, and safe," the Zhentilar swordcaptain grunted, 
"but we know all about wizards, don't we, lads? Swords out, watch wary, and be 
ready for the worst!" He glared around at the Zhentilar soldiers and told them, 
"I don't want to lose one of you because someone wasn't looking, or was thinking 
about his mistress back at the Keep, or how many coins this or that jack owed 
him. So take yer time, and let's do this the right way. Torches and mage lights 
to the fore."
There was a creaking and rattling, and the men moved as one. Then the only sound 
was the soft whisper and rustle of disturbed foliage. The first scouts of the 
Sword of the South advanced up the steep, thickly forested slope toward the ruin 
of Galath's Roost.
When the foremost man was an easy ten paces from the overgrown stones of a wall, 
he turned and shrieked like an owl, thrice. In response, the mage lights drifted 
silently forward, over the helmed heads of the soldiers, into the dark and 
hollow places of stone ahead.
Nothing moved. There was no sound that could not be put down to small things 
that flap or scuttle in a forest by night. Cautiously the Zhentilar moved 
forward, swords out, probing the ferns and brambles ahead for spring bows, trip 
cords, and pits. They found nothing.
From here and there along the edges of the ruin, double owl hoots rang out as 
scout after scout signalled his safe entry into the keep. Files of men bearing 
torches began to work their way through the trees in answer to the calls.
A scout halted in a dark chamber, hearing the stony scrape of something moving 
to his right, through an archway thick with vines and mottled moss. "Be that 
you, Baeremuth?" The whisper was cautious, and the reply was quick and low.
"Aye. Fflarast?"
"Me," Fflarast confirmed, turning his loaded hand crossbow aside to prevent any 
accidents. "Anything of interest?"
"Lots of rubble, and something's nest vole bones an' the like. I think this 
place really is deserted."
"Good. Crazed orders, hacking through the woods in the dark just to camp in a 
ruin, but"
"Better'n trying to fight our way into Mistledale down that bow-shot throat, if 
we'd taken the road. They must have at least a dozen archersan' a dozen's all 
they'd need, Fflar, to take down four hundred or more of us, for sure. This way, 
we can strike out of the woods all along the south side of the dale. Those 
farmers'll run themselves crazed trying to be everywhere at once to stop us."
"You plot like a swordlord," Fflarast muttered. "We'd better get on, or 
Dellyn'll be running his blade up our backsides and bellowing at us for being a 
pair of craven laggards or spies for the enemy."
"Huh. He sees spies under every stone, that one," Baeremuth replied, and suited 
actions to words by turning over a rock that was suspiciously damp among dry, 
dusty ones.
There was a sudden rush of rubble and a crash that shook the room. Fflarast 
cursed and staggered back, trying to keep his feet, but ended up sitting down 
hard on rubble. When he'd scrambled up and could see again through the rising 
dust, his mouth went suddenly dry.
Baeremuth Asanter lay under a fallen block of stone nearly as large as a pack 
mule. Thin rivers of blood were running out from beneath itand Fflar could just 
see the tips of the fingers of one hand, reaching vainly for aid. It would reach 
forever now.
Death Grows Impatient
Fflarast Blackriver peered again at his comrade's remains and then backed away 
very carefully. The rock-fall hadn't been accidental.
Someone had gone to a lot of trouble with wooden wedges and spars and balanced 
stonesand even flung dust around afterward to hide their work. The wedges were 
the bright hue of newly cut wood; this had been done within the last day or so.
"Oh, Bane preserve us," Fflarast whispered, backing out of the chamber. At that 
moment, a heavy booming off to the right marked the discovery of another trap. 
It was followed by a faint, raw screaming that went on for a long time before 
ending suddenly in a gurgle. Fflarast knew those sounds. Someone had put a 
half-crushed man out of his agony with a quick sword thrust to the throat.
"Ye gods and small creeping things hear my plea," the Zhentilar warrior 
whispered, invoking the old, old prayer of desperate warriors. He wasn't facing 
half a hundred ores alone on a crag, like the legendary Bor-thin had been when 
he roared out the invocation, but dead is dead, and Fflarast Blackriver had only 
one life to lose. Moreover, he valued it just as much as Borthin had his own.
There came another rushing of stone off to the left, and startled cursing. 
Ahone trap had missed. Good; that meant they were probably all clever feats, 
and not magic. Maybe-just maybeFflar would see the end of this day.
There came a ringing of steel from behind him. "What's ahead, scout?" a 
self-important swordcaptain snapped. Pelaeron himself, scourge of lazy soldiers. 
Oh, joy.
"Traps, sir," Fflarast said, indicating the fallen block and Baeremuth's arm. 
"I'm deciding how best to safely proceed."
"Well, hurry up about it," the officer snapped, prodding Fflar's mail-covered 
backside with his sword tip. "We haven't got all night, you know." A file of 
warriors was crowding into the room behind the swordcaptain. Fflarast looked at 
themand at Pelaeron's steely eyeand then swallowed, shrugged, and carefully 
climbed over the rubble to the left of Baeremuth, on into the darkness.
Darkness where there should have been light. The torch had been with Baeremuth, 
and no mage lights were near. "Torch," Fflarast rapped out, keeping his voice as 
laconic as possible, and reached back.
The swordcaptain curtly waved an armsman with a blazing torch forward. The man 
reached to hand the torch to Fflarast, shuffled amid loose stones, tripped, and 
measured his length on the rubble. Stones shiftedand Fflar flung himself 
backward into unknown darkness as hard and fast as he could.
An instant later, armsman, torch, Pelaeron, and all vanished in a roaring and 
tumbling of stone as two carefully balanced blocks collapsed sideways, and the 
floor of the chamber above came down.
Fflarast landed hard on his tailbone on rough-edged rocks and lay there 
groaning. The chamber he'd come through was now a new-sealed tomb in front of 
him. He was lying in a cross passageand listening to fresh crashings off to the 
left as heavy stones dropped and rolled. Tortured metal shrieked briefly as it 
crumpled, a man screamed for an instant, and then there were only echoes. Echoes 
that faded slowly into silence.
Fflar shuddered. He snarled wordlessly. Gods take all wizards! Save my bruised 
behind! Grunting, he rolled slowly and carefully to the left, to his knees, and 
felt for his sword.
There was another rolling crash in the distance, and shouts. Fflarast found his 
sword and clutched it, not moving as he fought down fear. He was alone in chill 
darkness with death waiting all around him. For the greater glory of Zhentil 
Keep, whose proud lords would not even know that Fflarast Blackriver had died in 
the service. Or care one whit, if someone told them.
"Hungry beasts take them all," Fflar told the darkness softly, and stayed on his 
knees, wondering how long it would be until dawn and if he'd dare try to find 
his way out of the ruin even then.
Far down the passage, many torches glimmered and danced, and a voice said, 
"Therethat's armor!"
"I serve Zhentil Keep!" Fflar shouted desperately, flinging up his arms in case 
someone was very eager to fire his crossbow. No quarrels answered. The voice 
came again. "Who are you, soldier?"
"Fflarast Blackriver, of Pelaeron's Mace." He cleared his throat and added, "I'm 
alone. Pelaeron and most of his swords lie under stone beside me. We've struck 
two traps already."
"It seems a contagious habit," the voice responded dryly. "Stay where you are. 
I'm going to throw you a torch."
A moment later, fire whup-whup-whupped end over end through the darkness, 
trailing sparks, and fell amid rubble, showing Fflar a row of archways on one 
side of the passage, and doors or fallen walls on the side he'd come in by. A 
bootstill twitching feeblycould be seen in the fall of rubble beside him. 
Fflarast swallowed and turned his back on it, looking through the nearest arch.
"What can you see, soldier?" the voice asked.
"A huge chamberprobably a great hall," Fflarast answered. "It has balconies 
around its inside walls, and the roof's gone somewhere. There's moonlight at one 
end."
"Off to your leftmy right?"
"Aye," Fflarast called. "It looks openbig empty stretches."
Voices murmured down the corridor. The officer called, "Can you get to the 
torch?"
Fflarast struggled over rubble for a few sweating moments, half-expecting the 
ceiling to fall on him, but reached the guttering torch safely. "I have it," he 
called, and swung it nigh.
"Good. We're going to throw you another. Pitch it out into this large hall of 
yours and tell us what you see."
Fflarast did so. The chamber rivalled the main hall of the Black Altar back in 
Zhentil Keep. He'd stood honor guard in that dark temple more than once, and 
knew this hall was fully as large. He told them so.
"Can you say anything of interest?"
"No  broken tiles heaved and stained flooring, but open. The torchlight 
doesn't show it all. Nothing moving or alive that I can see."
"Good man. Stay where you are. We're coming to join you."
Fflarast sighed heavily and stood as still as he could, watching the slow and 
cautious advance of a long file of black-armored men.
It seemed half the Sword of the South was in the passage. Someone had cut a 
long, bent sapling and lashed a torch to it, and was lighting the high ceiling 
as they came, finding holes and old rockfalls. There were also two shafts that 
presumably let light and air down into the keep, but as the soldiers of Zhentil 
Keep cautiously passed beneath them, nothing swooped down or fell from above. 
Soon the Zhentilar reached Fflarast, and a swordcaptainanother officious 
onecurtly ordered him to stand aside.
A torch was tossed on down the passage. Its flickering light revealed that the 
corridor was blocked completely not far beyond where Fflarast had entered it. An 
entire room seemed to have fallen from the floor above, pouring a high mound of 
broken stone across the passage from wall to wall, and almost to the ceiling. 
Fflar looked at it and shuddered.
"This great hall it is, then," the swordcaptain ordered, turning away. The man 
at his elbowthe swordcaptain who'd thrown the torch to Fflarastpeered into the 
vast chamber and murmured, "I have a bad feeling about this room."
"I think we all do!" the other officer snarled, fear lacing his blustering 
voice. "So let's just get on with it! Menout swords and advance, the first 
dozen of you! Stop and report if you see anything of importespecially moving 
bones! I want to get that mage in here fast and then maybe we'll all get some 
sleep!"
Men moved reluctantly into the chamber. Fflarast stood silent, glad he wasn't 
among them, expecting to hear another heavy crash at any moment.
Minutes passed, and the men standing still and tense in the passage could hear 
each other breathing, hoarse and fast. But no cries or falls of stone came, and 
soon a man whose armor bore the red shoulder emblem of a sword came back to the 
archway and reported crisply, "No danger, sir. Molds and rubbish down one end, 
where a lot of water's come in, but there's nothing else in the place except two 
stairs up to the floor above and a high seatof bare stone, nothing in iton a 
raised bit at the far end. The place is huge; there's room for a good two 
thousand blades to bunk down, though I'd not want to be close in under some of 
the balconies; they look none too safe."
"Well done, sword. Set men to guard all doors and archways into the place; we'll 
move in. Swordcaptain Aezel, go out and tell the swordlord. Request that the 
spellmaster be brought in, forthwithand if the wizard objects, request it 
again."
There were a few dry chuckles in the safe anonymity of the gloom, and then men 
were on the move. Fflarast Blackriver came to a sudden decision. He handed his 
torch to a passing armsman and took up the straight, back-to-the-wall stance of 
a man on guard duty. He wasn't going into that great hall unless directly 
ordered to.
Thankfully, the officious swordcaptain passed on into the great hall, and the 
bulk of the soldiery followed, leaving a few wary veterans standing in the 
passage with Fflarast. "Neatly done, lad," one of them hissed, and grinned. 
Fflarast gave him a grin back, and they waited in the darkness together until a 
bright blaze of torches and the shuffling of many booted feet told them the main 
body of the Sword had arrived.
Men in black armor seemed to file past forever, until at last the black battle 
robes of the spellmaster could be seen sweeping majestically down the passage. 
He was escorted by two swordcaptains and the swordlord himself."
The supreme commander of the Sword of the South halted close enough to Fflarast 
to touch him, and said to the wizard, "The men want you to look around and set 
them at their ease that there's no magic or hidden, lurking things about. Do 
that, but we haven't time for you to send them haring down every passage in the 
place in hopes of finding magic treasure that was likely taken away long ago. 
I'll be outside, supervising the perimeter watch; send Swordcaptain Tschender 
here out to me if you want anything."
The spellmaster nodded impatiently, seeming eager to get into the room, and the 
swordlord stepped back, rolled his eyes behind the wizard's back, and strode off 
back down the corridor, leaving behind at least six veterans struggling not to 
chuckle as the Zhentarim stepped grandly through the nearest arch.
By unspoken, common accord the men in the passage all moved to stand where they 
could look through archways, and watch what befell in the great hall. Wizards of 
the Black Network were not lovedbut they were always a source of entertainment, 
if one could keep safely out of the way.
Spellmaster Thuldoum strode grandly across the vast chamber, head high, looking 
slowly from left to right and back again. When he caught sight of the throne, he 
bent forward in eagerness, and his pace quickened.
"Gods spit down on 'im," one of the soldiers muttered. "He's going to sit on the 
throne!"
For a moment it appeared that the wizard was going to do just thatbut prudence 
came to him at the last moment, and they saw him ordering a reluctant armsman 
into the seat instead.
Gingerly the soldier sat downand from the ceiling above, a ring of boulders on 
chains crashed down, smashing the vainly leaping man to bloody ruin on the 
stones. One stone, rebounding from the impact on its chain, nearly beheaded the 
startled wizard, who staggered backward, arms flailing, as armsmen watched in 
horror. The soldier who'd been a shade too slow in vacating the throne lay where 
he had fallen, a broken figure in a pool of blood.
"What did I tell ye?" a soldier said, who hadn't in fact spoken before, all that 
long night. "Stupid buttocks-brain."
It seemed the wizard wasn't done. He'd caught sight of something behind or 
beyond the throne that only he could see, and was casting a spell. With all eyes 
upon him, he made a show of it, gesturing dramatically as he brought the 
invocation to a ringing climaxand a door slowly appeared in the blank wall 
behind the high seat. Magical radiance shone blue and silver, brightening to a 
soft white glow, and spread slowly along an arched frame to outline a large 
door.
As Zhentilar stared at it and Spellmaster Thuldoum grinned in triumph, Fflarast 
felt the tense prickling of hairs rising on the back of his neck. Oh, no
The Zhentarim brought his hands down with a flourish, pointing at the door, and 
shouted the last word of the spell that would open it.
The door winked out. Blue-white flashes ran all over the ceiling of the chamber 
as a web of magic discharged, and Galath's Roost fell in on itself with a roar.
Fflarast saw the ceiling begin to fall and the wizard stare up and then vanish. 
He did not wait to see a thousand of his fellow warriors crushed, but turned and 
flung himself headlong down the passage, running as he had never run before.
There was an earth-splitting crash of stone upon stone, and Fflar was flung off 
his feet. He landed rolling amid dust and falling stones as the castle shook 
around him. The entire armor gallery had fallen into the great hall.
"Gods!" one of the old soldiers in the passage gasped. The floor, too!" And with 
a slow, gathering thunder, the overloaded floor gave way, dropping in huge 
pieces down into dark cellars beneath.
By then, Fflar was sprinting toward the moonlight, sweat almost blinding him. A 
last leap over rubbleand he was out, tumbling in the ferns and coming up 
running, to get well away from the walls.
"Easy, soldier," said a swordcaptain, putting out a hand to stop Fflarast's 
frantic flight. "What befell?"
Fflar clung to the man, panting, unable to catch his breathand from the ruined 
keep behind him came a slow series of smaller crashes.
They listened together, and then the officer shook Fflar by the shoulders. 
"Well?"
An old soldier came into view out of the same rent in the wall Fflar had used. 
It was one of the veterans who'd stayed in the passage. He was walking slowly 
and stiffly, ignoring the occasional falls of small stones from above, and the 
officer strode toward him with a snarl, dragging Fflar along.
"What befell?" he snapped, eyeing the old man's gray whiskers.
The old warrior looked up at him and said, "Don't bluster, lad ye're an 
officer, remember?"
The swordcaptain roared out his anger and snatched at his swordand Fflar hit 
him in the side of his neck with one mailed fist, as hard as he'd ever hit 
anyone in his life. He got in two more good blows before the body reached the 
groundand stayed there.
"Easy,*lad  ye've broken his neck, there's no need to dance on his bones," the 
veteran muttered, bending over Fflar. "Now ye'd best get away from him and 
practice looking innocent, afore the next officer happens along."
"Too late," a deep, grave voice said above them both. Fflar and the veteran 
looked up into the cold, tired eyes of Swordlord Amglar. "But by the sounds of 
things, I've just lost too many blades to waste two more because cruel, spoiled 
nobles' sons make bad officers. Consider thisaccidentforgotten, and so long as 
you have no more, scout, I'll continue to forget it. Now tell me in truth what's 
befallen in there."
Fflarast and the veteran looked at each other, and then Fflar spoke. "The 
spellmaster cast a spell to open a door behind the throne, andI thinkset off 
some sort of magical trap. The whole ceiling came down at once but I think I 
saw him vanish before the stones hit. I ran, then that's all I saw. Before 
that, though, my unitPelaeron's Maceand a lot of others I heard die, but 
didn't see, were crushed in rockfall traps the keep's bulging with them."
The swordlord nodded soberly. "The spellmaster's magic brought him safely out to 
us here," he said, his lips twisting bitterly, "and dearly though I'd love to 
put him to death for this blunder, we need him in the battle tomorrow." He 
leaned in close to them, and his next words came in a whisper.
"Don't raise a hand to him this night, whatever the provocation but if either 
of you survives the coming battle, and he's still breathing at the end of it, I 
want either or both of you to slay him. He may have contingencies, mindtry to 
dismember the body and then burn it." He looked from Fflar to the veteran, and 
then back to Fflar. "Understood?"
"I understand and will obey," the old soldier whispered, and Fflar echoed his 
words. The swordlord nodded. "Good." He looked at the veteran. "So the ceiling 
fell what did you see after that?"
"The floor an' all went down intocellars, I'd guessbelow, breaking off and 
sliding slowly; in bits, ye know. Then the balconies broke off and fell in on 
top of it all, one by one. I saw spell flashes before each fall the whole 
thing's one huge trap, sir, if ye ask me. I'd sooner sleep in the hot heart of 
an enemy campfire tonight than go back in there, sir." He jerked his head to 
indicate the ruined castle behind him.
The swordlord nodded grimly. "We've been duped by a clever foeand an arrogant, 
careless wizard." He sighed and added, "Gods curse all wizards. If things in 
Faerun were all decided by the strength of a sword arm and not sneaking spells, 
we'd all be a lot better off!"
Rising with another sigh, their commander pointed toward a campfire. "Go and 
report to Shieldmaster Tesker; you're part of my own mace now, both of you." He 
turned away, and as they stammered their thanks, he turned back and added, "Oh, 
and tell him from me that you're both swords now. If we've any armor so blazoned 
that fits, you're to wear it tomorrow."
"May the gods thank you more than we can, sir!" the old veteran gasped.
Amglar smiled thinly. Tou'll probably be cursing me on the morrow. Save your 
delight for when all of this is over, and we're standing proudly on the 
battlements of Zhentil Keep again. Then I'll thank the gods too just how 
fervently I do it then, mind you, will depend on what they've done to us since."
All three of them laughed together, the grim laughter of fighting men who shared 
the same periland the same jaundiced view of the world that had put them there. 
Then they clasped forearms and parted.
On his way to the fires, Fflar stopped for a moment as he realized something the 
other two had already knownmost soldiers keep warm with the memories of such 
moments.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule
Sylune of Shadowdale lay awake in the darkness, as she did every night. When one 
no longer needs to sleep and one's friends are in danger, there is no better way 
to guard them than to lie among them, feigning slumber, with a watch spell set.
Through its invisible web she felt Itharr stir, plagued by dark thoughts, 
building his killing rage for the battle tomorrow. Later, Sylun6 sent soothing 
visions to Belkram when a dream made him start in terror and almost awaken. 
Sharantyr needed no such kindnesses; she lay in peace, her dreams deep.
They were fine battle companions and good friends, Sylun6 smiled up at the dark 
roof of the tent overhead. She closed her eyes again and turned her thoughts to 
the many folk and places and things she must check on and watch over during this 
Time of Troubles, if the Realms she loved were to survive, and not some 
shattered, twisted remnant of Toril. At least the hours when others slept gave 
her time enough for reflection, to consider and anticipate all the consequences 
and probable unintended effects of her every action. It could truly be said of 
the Chosen that, more than any other thinking creatures of Faerun, they knew 
exactly what they were doing at all times.
Right now, Sylune was thinking over the battle tomorrow the battle that would 
probably cost her this body. Jhessail and Rathan both carried fragments of stone 
from her hut should anything befall the one within her now, andsomething was 
amiss!
A scrying spell swept over the tent, seeing who lay within. Its primary dweomer 
paused above each sleeping face as Sylune pretended to slumber, but it did not 
seem to sense the spell web, and withdrew without any disturbance. Yet, that is. 
Now someone, probably a Zhentarim mage, knew who was in this tent. While most 
folk still believed that the Witch of Shadowdale was long dead, only a Malaugrym 
had any reason to view these four sleepers as greater foes than the mightier 
Knights of Myth Drannor sleeping in other tents.
Sylune let out her breath in a long gasp and rose from her physical body as a 
ghostly, shadowy image, questing out into the camp around for any signs of fell 
magic. She could feel the frozen fire of magic items lying immobile in the tent 
Jhessail and Merith shared with Illistyl and a lady Rider, and a few faint 
dweomers from enspelled glow daggers riding on the hips of watchful sentries 
around the edge of the camp but as long moments passed, no hostile spells came 
out of the night. Far away to the northeast, near ruined Myth Drannor, a wolf 
howled, but nothing nearby answered.
Yet a single fireball could do a lot of damage to a force this small. Perhaps 
she should raise a spell shield. Sylune glanced out of the tent into the still 
moonlight. To do so over the entire camp would be a punishing drain on the 
little life essence she had left; she really needed a living being to power such 
a magicand to do it for long would leave the creature weak and quivering. Not a 
sword arm could be spared from the battle, though, so
Something was disturbing the spell web! Sylune whirled back to face into the 
tent in time to see two dark, serpentine bodies rise up through the floor, 
making the softest of tearing sounds. Their heads, which had parted the canvas 
so swiftly, were deadly steel blades atop undulating, scaled coils, but they 
rose up in the darkness, growing swiftly larger.
Malaugrym!
The Witch of Shadowdale sent a shrieking warning through the spell web to awaken 
her companions as she hurled her ghostly form back across the tent. She had to 
reach her body! Very few of her spells were available to her in this ghostly 
form, when she could hold nothing solid.
One serpent-blade was arching over her own body, and the other was rearing above 
Sharantyr, whence it could plunge itself down into her sleeping breast, Sylune 
cast a curving shield of force over the lady ranger as she swept past.
Just in time! The blade came down at Sharantyr's face and was struck aside by 
the invisible barrier, trailing a line of white sparks.
The other serpent-thing struck at Sylune"'s body before she could slip into it, 
throwing its coils around her throat and wrists. The rest of its body extended 
toward Belkram, blade rearing back to strike.
She'd warned all three rangers to keep silence and find their blades as they 
awakened, and as the serpent-thing stretched over toward him, Belkram came 
boiling up out of his furs, hacking at the thing savagely.
Its hammer strike burst through his frantic parry and almost pinned to him to 
the tent floor, laying open his shoulder as he twisted desperately aside. He 
roared in pain. Sharantyr tried to scramble to his aid, and found herself a 
prisoner under the shield, but Itharr came leaping across the tent with his 
blade gleaming, bellowing, "Aid! An attack! Knights of Myth Drannor, to us!"
Sylune slid into her body, heedless of the strangling coil about her throat. She 
did not need to breathe, and so could take no harm from the crushing 
constriction of the Malaugrymwhose constraint prevented her from hurling 
spells. She gathered her will as ironlike coils tightened about her, and hauled 
her shield of force away from Sharantyr. She angled it up to wall herself away 
from the rest of the tent and shoved the Malaugrym's blade away from Belkram in 
the process.
The shapeshifter simply extended its body farther to strike at the Harper once 
more, but Itharr slashed it asideand with her companions safe behind the 
shield, Sylune unleashed a spell that made steel shards burst from her body.
The Malaugrym took them all, convulsing in agony and flailing about the tent, 
sweeping her body off its bed and hurling Itharr to sprawl atop Sharantyr and 
the other serpentine Shadowmaster. Belkram sprang upon it and drove his blade 
home, but it writhed under him, not mortally harmed by his steel, and tried to 
shake him off. He sat on it, stabbing it repeatedly, so it grew fangs and bit 
his thigh.
Sharantyr and Itharr rolled around among the furs with the other Malaugrym, 
hacking and stabbing at it in a frenzyand then the tent flap burst open and the 
Knights of Myth Drannor charged in.
Florin had doffed his armor for the night and wore only breeches, but his stout 
sword was in his hand. He dived without pause onto the serpent-thing on the 
beds, hacking at its blade-head with a flurry of blows, trying to sever the 
serpent's dark steel. Torm took one look at Sylune, who struggled upright with 
coils thick around her throat, and howled in fury, leaping across the tent with 
his dagger flashing.
Sylune kicked out one foot, trying to touch him, and Rathan saw what she was 
doing. He pushed past the thief and grasped Sylune's ankle firmly. What she said 
to him mind-to-mind he shouted aloud: "Malaugrym! Use silver on them to slay! 
They're shapeshifters! Use silver!"
At the door of the tent, Jhessail and Illistyl both nod- ded grimly. As Merith 
dived past them and buried his silver-bladed dagger in the Malaugrym that was 
battering Belkram all around the tent, they ran to where Itharr and Sharantyr 
were stabbing the other, and murmured spells as they slapped their hands at the 
blades, heedless of sharp, flashing edges.
The weapons glowed blue-white as Jhessail snatched her hand back, shaking drops 
of blood from it- When the glow faded, they shone silver and the wounds they 
made did not close. Sharantyr and Itharr set to work chopping with frenzied 
speed, gasping their thanks.
Florin severed the blade-head of the other Malaugrym with a last blow and 
grabbed at the gory serpent-form, trying to hurl it away from a groaning 
Belkram. It grew many fanged mouths as he pounced on it, and one of them shot 
forth on a long stalk to snap at Torm, who ducked his head aside. Rathan raised 
his hand to cast a spelland the jaws expanded with lightning speed to envelop 
it, biting down with cruel force.
The fat cleric doggedly intoned his spell, sweat running down his faceand fire 
from his hand burst forth within the Malaugrym, causing it to recoil with a roar 
of mingled fury and pain.
Illistyl's eyes narrowed as flames gouted from the beast. She dug a hand into 
her purse, snatched a silver coin, and snapped out a cantrip that crumbled the 
metal to powder in her hands. Flinging the powdered silver into the flames, she 
leapt back.
The explosion that followed was spectacular. The coils around Sylune1 spasmed, 
flinging her freeand then smashed into her body with the force of a charging 
war horse, hurling her like a rag doll against the side of the tent. She struck, 
tumbled, and came to rest atop Torm, who madly stabbed the Malaugrym and sobbed 
with rage.
"It's dead, Torm," Sylune told him gently, putting a hand on his shoulder as she 
looked over him at the gory lumps that had been the other Malaugrym. "And so's 
the other one."
"Gods," the thief hissed, eyes blazing, "they could have killed you!"
"Yes," Sylune agreed, "but they did not, thanks in part to you." She put up her 
hand to wipe the sweat from his brow, then leaned forward and kissed him. He 
stared at her for a moment, and threw his arms around her, weeping 
uncontrollably.
"It's been rather a long time since any man got this angry for my sake," she 
murmured into his shoulder, "but try not to get yourself killed defending me, 
Torm!"
"Why not?" the thief said when he found enough control to speak. "Have you seen 
what they did to your hair?"
The Ring of Skulls
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule
Sharantyr shades her eyes again and is sure of it. Another flash, there and 
another. And then Zhents are pouring out of the woods in a hundred places, the 
bright morning sun glinting on ebon armor.
There is a stir along the banks of Swords Creek, and the short bark of Kuthe's 
order off to the right. The Riders of Mistledale move amid a growing thunder of 
hooves, hurrying along the southern edge of the dale to meet the invaders. Lance 
tips glitter as they sweep down.
Restless, the lady ranger hefts her own gleaming blade, licks her lips, and 
watches Kuthe's lance lowered with menacing force. He flicks it expertly, taking 
out the throat of a Zhentilar as he passes, and with bright blood still trailing 
from the tip, buries it deep in the face of the first Zhent horseman to appear 
out of the woods.
The man crumples as he's flung back out of his saddle. A score of crashes follow 
up and down the edge of the trees as Zhent maces and spears find shields or the 
Riders behind them and a horn sounds from just behind Shar, calling the retreat.
Horses wheel and rear. Zhentilar soldiers race in to gut the retreating warriors 
as they turn away. One Rider tarries too long, and Shar sees him go down, 
hacking frantically with his blade at a dozen foes as they drag him to ground 
and stab him. The riderless mount in fear lashes out with its hooves, leaps 
wildly into the air, shedding broken Zhent armsmen like rag dolls, and lands 
running west down the dale to where Kuthe is rallying the Riders.
Arrows hiss past Shar's shoulder as the farmers of Mistledale, faces set in fear 
and determination, strike their own first blows against the foe. Only a few 
black-armored figures fall, and now they're streaming out of the trees by the 
hundreds, a glittering black carpet of death that advances west with casual 
confidence. More than one of the watchers along Swords Creek gasps or retches in 
fear; there are thousands of Zhents!
"Gods," a man nearby mutters in despair and disbelief, "have they been breeding 
armsmen like rabbits? Look at them!"
Certain death was coming for them, and they all knew it. Shar traded tight grins 
with Belkram and Itharr as they heard Term's voice lifted in jaunty song:
"Come, oh, come play with me! Bring, oh, bring your sword, and We'll be threer
The Riders had succeeded in keeping the foe east of the creek. Secure in their 
numbers, none of the Zhen-tilar had moved to outflank the paltry line of waiting 
warriors yet. Nor were they bothering with any sort of tight formation, merely 
gathering in mobs around a dozen steadily advancing standards.
Shar's lip curled in derision, and then she shrugged. Outnumbering us hundreds 
to one, what do they need of discipline or battlecraft?
The Sword of the South came on without pause or parley. Shar looked again at the 
Riders, wondering if they'd mount another charge to disrupt the steady Zhent 
advance. Kuthe's helm turned; the white-horse blazon caught the sun as he looked 
back at her. And then his helm jerked sharply back east again.
There was a murmur from the defenders of Mistledale as they all saw what Kuthe 
had espied the casting of, from his high saddle: eight tiny balls of fire spun 
up into view and roared across Swords Creek, howling through the air and growing 
in size and fury as they came.
The line of defenders raised their shields and shifted uneasily as the roaring 
conflagration spun nearerbut then the spinning flames and sparks rippled, 
pulsed and were gone. Swarms of birds and smoke spread harmlessly across the 
sky. The unseen wild magic shields in front of the defenders had worked.
A shout of satisfaction arose from the defendersbut it was answered by a ragged 
cry of excitement, rising from the Zhent ranks. A trumpet blared, and the Sword 
of the South charged forward. They lowered their spears and trotted into the 
creek, a sea of soldiers flanked by two bands of mounted armsmen. The horsemen 
to the north splashed slowly down through the creek, avoiding the roadno doubt 
fearing traps. Their comrades to the south spurred across the creek in a spray 
of waters, and gathered speed as they hurtled up the west bank toward the 
Riders.
Shar looked from one forest of black helms to the other and back again. Was it 
going to be all over in the first few breaths? There aren't enough of us to 
stand for more than one charge and that only with luck.
The screams began. The Zhent horsemen to the right were raising frantic shields 
or toppling from their saddles as a storm of blades twinkled and flashed around 
them at faces and throats.
"First blow to Chauntea," Itharr murmured, watching them plunge on into 
oblivion. None of the Zhentilar horsemen reached the leveled lances of the 
waiting Riders, and few managed to pull out of that storm of steel to flee.
Lighting cracked and flashed low over the Zhent ranks, stabbing at the defenders 
of Mistledale but became a stream of red rose petals, and drifted away on the 
quickening breeze. There were chuckles up and down the line of defenders. The 
sweat of quickening fear was making Shar's blade sticky; she shifted her grip on 
it and snatched a last glance to the north before the first Zhents reached her.
The northern Zhent cavalry had crossed the creek and were lowering their lances 
to meet a single line of Riders that had come out of nowhere to bar their path. 
With an exultant roar they swept down through the phantom forms of the waiting 
Riders and plunged into the spike-lined disemboweling pits. At about the same 
time, the arrows of the best archers of Mistledale found them.
A spear cast out of the Zhent lines clipped the edge of Sharantyr's shield, and 
she found herself in the midst of what all battles become: a crowded, confused 
whirlwind of hard-plied steel crashing down on shields and armor, skirling off 
opposing bladesand sinking into screaming men.
A Zhentilar armsman swung a huge morningstar at her. Shar threw herself to her 
knees. As the weapon rattled past overhead, she struck upward with her shield, 
hurling her foe off-balance. She swept her sword up into the throat of the next 
charging armsman, who staggered on, dead already, and ran his blade into the 
armpit of the man with the morningstar. They crashed down together, and Shar 
shook their blood out of her eyes and took a hasty step aside to put her blade 
into the neck of a tall armsman who'd engaged Belkram, and was straining to 
overwhelm the snarling Harper. The man reeled and went down, spraying her with 
more blood. Belkram gave her a fierce grin of thanks as they faced the next 
Zhents shoulder to shoulder.
Arrows were still hissing past; there were so many Zhents that the dale farmers 
could fire over the heads of those in the fray and yet find targets in plenty. A 
horn rang out, calling the defenders of the dale to retreat to the second line 
of standards.
In answer to its call, Shar smashed her way free of a tightening knot of 
Zhentilar and backed hastily from the creek. One of the orange standards that 
marked a gap in the wild magic shields fluttered off to her left, and she saw 
Jhessail and Illistyl crouching by it, behind Merith's raised sword and shield. 
Their hands wove in spellcasting gestures.
Shar slashed an overly enthusiastic Zhent across the face, and as he went down, 
watched the spell of her fellow Knights take effect.
Upended helms full of metal shards and salvaged arrowheads were rising from the 
ground with slow, menacing forceone, three six in all. Zhents were backing 
uncertainly away from them, but one man hacked at a helm with his blade.
He was the first to fall, ripped apart as the magic erupted, transforming the 
helms and their contents into pinwheel sprays of arrows that tore into the Zhent 
host on all sides.
Zhentilar blackhelms screamed in chorus and fell in great swathes, as if 
harvested by a gigantic, invisible scythe. Shar felt her gorge rise. She turned 
away from the sight and hastened back to the rallying standards, Belkram and 
Itharr at her side. There were still thousands of Zhents left; the Sword of the 
South was surging on across the creek, heedless of the cost. As the defenders 
gathered at the standards another horn call rang out from their midst.
This one was meant for the hidden Harpers. Trip wires hidden among the trampled 
grass were tightened now, and
As it happened, Shar watched the first shield rise, spilling a startled Zhent 
forwardand revealing a Harper with a loaded crossbow. He discharged his quarrel 
into the face of the nearest Zhent officer, dropped the bow, and snatched up his 
spear to ward away a charging annsman. That gave the other two Harpers in the 
hole time to scramble out, gain their feet, and begin their race through the 
Zhent rear, hacking and slashing at the full run.
Men and women in leather boiled up out of the ground in two dozen places or 
more, and there was much shouting and chaos. Shar had a brief glimpse of a 
furious-looking man in robesa Zhent wizard, she realizedstumbling hastily away 
from a seeking blade. Then she was much too busy to look at anything but the 
foes all around, their blades falling on her own with the force of hammers.
The Sword of the South rolled into the defenders again, a wall of grim men 
wielding blades and maces. They pushed the outnumbered dalefolk slowly back to 
higher ground. Another horn cried out from just behind her, and Shar flung 
herself flat.
An instant later, arrows hissed over her in a deadly stream, and the front rank 
of Zhents melted away, hurled to the ground like torn thorn bushes. A brief blip 
of the horn indicated it was safe to rise.
Sharantyr found her feet and stared across blood-soaked ground at the Zhents 
over the frightened faces of the Zhentilar rearguard, back across the creek. 
There, Harper swords flashed, message runners fell, and Zhent officers shouted 
and flailed in disarray. A rolling ball of flame told her at least one Harper 
spell had workeda lone Harper paused, tossed sweat-soaked hair out of his eyes, 
and lashed half a dozen pursuers with a bright net of fire.
The Harpers were pitifully few. Most of those fighting south to a rallying point 
were going down, attacked from all sides by enraged and fearful Zhents. Shar saw 
one armsman catch his foot on the edge of an open Harper hole and fall 
helplessly away from the ranger he was attacking. The man leapt across the hole, 
breaking free of a ring of Zhents, and raced toward a banner that had been set 
alight as a rallying point.
Not far behind Shar, Margrueth muttered an incantation. A flying Zhent spear 
headed past her, and she dived sideways to smash it down with her shield, for 
fear it would reach the sorceress.
It skidded into the dirt, and an instant later came Margrueth's short bark of 
satisfaction. A wall of twinkling swords blinked into solidity in the air around 
the surviving Harpers, chopping down pursuing Zhents. Men jerked and fell in 
that deadly whirlwind.
A black-robed Zhentarim wizard strode toward the wall of swords, careful to keep 
in the lee of a trio of large shields held high by armsmen. He raised his hands 
and gestured grandlybut was answered by fearful shouts as his magic went wild. 
Instead of fading away, the blades flew in all directions, butchering Harpers 
and Zhents alike.
A strident horn call began another Zhent cavalry charge, striking at the Riders 
again along the southern edge of the dale. The ground shook as sixty or more 
horsemen gathered speed, heading west. The Zhentilar foot soldiers advanced, 
too, striding purposefully to overwhelm the few defenders.
Shar caught a seeking sword on her dagger, warded it away, and drove her own 
blade into the man's throat. As he spun away, clutching the spraying gore, she 
sprang to meet the next man, leaping high to put all her weight behind the 
downstroke. Her steel glanced off the guards of a slow parrying blade and 
sheared through its wielder's jaw. He fell back, choking, and was trampled by 
his fellow soldiers in their hunger to get at her.
"Hold the line!" she heard Rath an Thentraver roar, somewhere to the left.
A Harper fell against her leg and went down, a sword in his face. Only Belkram's 
swift blade saved Shar, and they retreated together, Itharr striking aside Zhent 
blades from one side.
"Kiss my steel!" Torm shouted defiantly nearby, and was answered by a short 
scream.
Shar reeled, found her footing again, and glared wildly around. The defenders of 
Mistledale were reduced to a few knots of struggling swordsthemselves and the 
Knights of Myth Drannor. The gaps in the line were so large now that the 
farmers, back behind the fray, could loose shafts freely through themand only 
that paltry but deadly fire was keeping the Zhents from sweeping forward to 
surround and rout them.
The horns called anew. The defenders fell back again, seeking another line of 
standards as lightnings danced briefly among the Zhents. The creek was far off 
now, across a sea of bobbing black helms, and the iron taste of grim despair 
rose in Sharantyr's mouth.
They were all going to die here, today, swept away by a thousand Zhent blades, 
sent to their deaths by Elmin-ster in this dark time on Faerun
With a crash that shook the battlefield, the Zhent cavalry and the Riders of 
Mistledale rushed together. A breath later, something flashed across the sky. 
The Zhentarim spellmaster tried another futile spelland was answered by 
Jhessail and Illistyl, who sent a dancing serpent of flame through the ranks of 
the advancing armsmen.
Shar heard Sylune^s voice rise in sudden passion. An instant later, a knot of 
Zhentilar armsmen levitated into the air, waving weapons in futile horror, 
lofting high above the battlefield.
Some of their fellows were too slow witted to avoid walking beneath the shouting 
spell victims and were gawking up at their fellows aloft when the Zhentilar 
plunged back to earth. They crashed down like so much spilled kindling to smash 
into bloody ruin on the earth and raised blades below.
The Zhent advance faltered. In the sudden lull, a man in old and shiny black 
Rider armor pushed past Shar and strode into the Zhent ranks, a shimmering 
arrowhead of force preceding him, cleaving men who stood in his way.
"Here me, Tempus, Lord of Battles!" the man roared as he went, hands raised and 
empty. "Let the old warriors rise, if it pleases ye! Raise a ring of skulls, I 
entreat ye! Oh, Tempus!"
It was the old Rider, Baergil. A Zhent, drawn sword in hand, ducked around 
behind the old priest's magic and raced in. As he jerked back the white-horse 
helm and drew his sword viciously across the exposed throat, there came one 
last, bubbling cry of Tempusss!"
The spell was complete. Baergil's body blazed with sudden blue fire. His slayer 
fell back in awe. The dead priest hung upright in the streaming flames, hands 
uplifted to the sky, and men murmured at the sight.
Cries of awe and fear came as the trampled turf under the Zhents erupted. 
Staring things of mottled green and brown bones burst up out of the soil rising 
through the horrified armsmen to form into a silent, floating ring of skulls 
just overhead. Many battles had been fought by the banks of Swords Creek, and 
countless warriors had fallen here, to lie under the earth until called up by so 
mighty a magic.
The eyes of the skulls flared into sudden fire, the same cold, eerie blue flame 
that blazed around Baergil. Zhentilar cried out in alarm and began to runbut 
nothing could flee fast enough to escape the rays of chill light that lanced 
from the skulls through the Zhent host.
Where those blue rays touched the running or striding armsmen of the Sword of 
the South, flesh melted away, leaving only bones. Skeletal warriors rushed on 
for a pace or two, and then collapsed.
The Zhents on the far side of the creek and the defenders of Mistledaie alike 
stared in horror as thousands of armsmen died.
When no man was left standing between Baergil's corpse and the creek, the skulls 
turned until the rays that streamed from their glowing sockets met in the heart 
of the field of bones. Blue light pulsed and built to almost blinding fury, and 
gauntlets were raised to shield eyes all over the battlefield. An armored form 
strode along in the heart of the radiance.
It had been striding forever, it seemed, fearless and patient, a figure twelve 
feet tall and clad in a full suit of gleaming plate armor, visor down. As the 
rays began to fade and the skulls sank back to the earth in silent unison, the 
armored figure was suddenly among them, treading on Zhentilar bones without a 
sound, walking toward Baergil.
"The War God," someone whispered. The defenders of Mistledaie fell back at the 
armored giant's approach.
In eerie silence, two flaming blue gauntlets reached out and took up the 
priest's body, cradling it against the massive chest. The Knights of Myth 
Drannor parted in respectful silence. The helm turned slowly from side to side 
to survey them, and for just a moment Shar felt the scorching weight of eyes 
that blazed like two red flames.
In silence, Tempus strode on, west toward distant Ashabenford, bearing Baergil's 
body in his arms. To those who watched, it seemed the body began to burn, 
blazing its own miniature pyre.
The implacable avatar vanished over the hill and left the handful of weary men 
and women to defend Mistledaie against several thousand shaken Zhentilar 
soldiers.
What was left of the Sword of the South stood along the east bank of Swords 
Creek, still more than enough armsmen to crush the few who resisted them. Their 
hireswords and booty brothers were among the fallen; those who remained were 
veteran Zhent blackhelms. In fearful, sullen silence, they eyed the field of 
death before them, but orders were shouted, and officers ran about brandishing 
maces and reluctantly, the soldiers of Zhentit Keep began to advance.
"It must be now," Sharantyr heard Sylune say quietly.
In the distance, there came a sudden burst of radiance as the Witch of 
Shadowdale appeared in the heart of the Zhents in the small space between 
Swordlord Amglar and Spellmaster Nentor Thuldoum. The men broke off their 
arguing to gape in unison at the beautiful woman who stood between them, the 
glow of her magic fading around her.
"Well met indeed, gentlesirs," Sylune" told them softly, raising her lithe arms 
in glee.
The magic missiles that streamed out of her riddled both men, even before the 
fireballs and bolts of lightning leapt forth in then* wake.
Amglar and Nentor of the Zhentarim died screaming.
Sylun6 sang a terrible, wordless song of rage and sorrow for the body she was 
losing, and her slim-hipped form blazed white with the fury of the magic 
coursing through her.
Zhentilar stared at the dancing, burning figure in their midst, and then 
perished in the whirlwind of unleashed spells that sprayed death in all 
directions from the woman.
Florin swallowed what might have been a sob as he watched bright flames gout 
from Sylune's eyes and mouth, streaming across scorched turf to immolate 
shouting Zhentilar, whose vainly hurled spears vanished in that inferno.
There came a quickening of the spell fury, and Sylune's head was gone, blown 
away with the awesome energies pouring from her. The headless body turned as if 
it could see, and raised its hands to burn fleeing Zhent horsemen from their 
distant saddles. Flames streamed from her neck and hands and before she turned 
away, her hands were gone, and spells were now leaping from the stumps of her 
arms.
Someone was rallying the Zhentilar as the stream of spells flickered, and then 
ceased and men in ebon armor charged across the smoking ground, blades raised 
to slay the swaying, disintegrating Witch of Shadowdale.
"No!" Belkram roared, waving his own blade in sudden fury. "For Mistledale! For 
Sylune!" He rushed across the strewn bones, his sword held high. Itharr and 
Florin raced to catch up to him. Sharantyr was moving before she thought about 
it, following her companions into a band of scattered, dazed-looking Zhent 
blackhelms still several hundred strong.
Beside her, Shar saw flashing legs and a bouncing bosom, and turned to see 
Jhessail sprinting along, weaponless, with Illistyl running at her heels and 
Merith moving with fluid grace and drawn sword.
"Wait!" Rathan puffed, behind them. "Save some Zhents for me!"
They were almost at the stream and the grim-faced foremost Zhents who stood 
there when what was left of the Witch of Shadowdale vanished in a burst of 
snarling flames that threw men headlong or sent them fleeing wildly back toward 
the trees.
Then Belkram, Itharr, and Florin splashed across the stream, roaring out their 
grief together. They fell upon the Zhents like three maddened reapers mowing 
wheat. It was the last such harvest that their foes needed to see: the shattered 
Sword of the South broke and fled, an army no more.
Belkram ran on toward the dying flames that had been Sylune, and Itharr and 
Florin paced him, sword-ing the few blackhelms foolish enough to get in their 
way. Sharantyr tried to catch up, but her lungs were burning; she'd never seen 
men run so fast before.
By the time she reached the spot where Belkram knelt, the Harper was on his 
knees amid the smoldering ashes, weeping.
The stone cradled so gently in his gauntlets had cracked in the heat. "Lady," 
Belkram sobbed despairingly, "leave us not!"
But there came no reply but the creak of cooling stone. The Harper raised a face 
that streamed tears and cried to Florin, "Do something!"
The Knight smiled down at him and undid the last buckle of his chest armor. As 
it fell open, he drew forth something he wore on a chain. A lump of stone. All 
of the gathered adventurers saw a streak of ghostly radiance arc from the 
shattered stone to the good one.
The stone winked once with its stored fire, reassuringly. Florin took off the 
chain and handed it to Belkram. "Yours, I think," the Shield of Shadowdale said 
quietly. "I think she's grown tired of Torm's tricks."
Belkram's eyes shone. He was still struggling to speak when the Riders of 
Mistledale swept past with lowered lances, ruthlessly riding down fleeing 
Zhents. "For Baergil!" they bellowed as they went. "For Baergil!"
Kuthe was in the foremost saddle, swaying and pale, blood all down his front 
from a deep wound in his shoulder. "Kuthe!" Jhessail called as he spurred his 
mount past. "Have done! They're beaten!"
He rode in a wide circle back to her, face set, and said, The field may be ours, 
Lady, but Mistledale is my home. Every Zhent who can still walk by sunset is a 
sword that can strike from darkness when we sleep! Ill not rest until they're 
all dead and done!"
Fflarast Blackriver and the old Harper who'd seen the sky rain wizards for the 
first time yesterday lay side by side under the very hooves of Kuthe's mount as 
he snarled those words, but they did not hear him. Dust lay on their staring 
eyes and still faces, and the darkening blood spilled under them both was the 
same hue: one could not tell which was the Harper's, and which belonged to the 
Zhentilar.
The leader of the Riders spurred away, the weary hooves of his mount trampling 
both bodies. Florin watched him go. "Where is the captain of the Riders?" he 
asked quietly.
"Who?" Rathan asked. That lady paladin?"
"Aye," Florin replied, "I've known her a long time."
"Oho," Torm spoke up, "an old lady friend, eh? May"
His crowing words ended in a sharp gasp as Illistyl thrust a sharp hand into his 
gut. "Someday, clever tongue," she warned him, "you'll say just one word too 
many"
"Uhhh," Torm agreed, doubled over.
"Indubitably," Rathan translated, looking at the breathless thief with interest.
Florin, ignoring them all, was striding across the field and looking for Captain 
Nelyssa.
He caught sight of her at last, hard by the trees on the southern edge of the 
dale, well behind the last standard the defenders of the dale had rallied 
around. A mound of Zhentilar lay heaped about her and the sprawled bulk of her 
horse. A band of blackhelms had tried to outflank the frayand paid for their 
cunning with their lives. There'd been over thirty of them, though, and it 
seemed the veteran Zhentilar armsmen were the measure of one paladin of 
Chauntea.
In a small lake of blood at the heart of the heaped dead lay the hacked and 
twisted form of Nelyssa, captain of the Riders of Mistledale, her armor torn 
open down the bloody mess of her front, and her notched and broken blade still 
clutched in her hand. Even as Florin broke into a run and shouted, lifting the 
heads of Harpers and farmers who knelt by the still form, he knew he was too 
late.
Nelyssa's face was unmarked, but bone-white; she looked very like the young lass 
Florin had known so long ago but her eyes were dark and sightless. The ranger 
stared into them as he sank down beside her and let out a long, shuddering sigh 
of grief. Was this madness of strife going to claim all the best hearts and 
minds before it was done?
"I need your sword, noble Falconhand," said a voice as rough and sharp as the 
skin of its owner. Margrueth of the Harpers laid her hand on Florin's own. The 
ranger looked up at her, finding it suddenly hard to drag his eyes away from 
Nelyssa's frozen face.
When he did, he was shocked at what he saw. The fire of life had gone out of the 
Harper sorceress, too. She was gray to the lips, and her skin was sunken and 
shriveled so that it seemed a skull thinly draped with flesh. Only the eyes told 
him the feisty Margrueth still lived, eyes dancing like two lively dark flames. 
"You will aid me in this, Knight. I must have your oath on it."
"My oath?" Weary and sad as he was, Florin still found that he could be 
startled. He looked around at the wondering farmers and the grim-faced Harpers, 
leaving him alone with the living woman and the dead one. They looked back at 
him. His oath. Whatever for?
And then, because she was old Margrueth and she was a Harperand because he was 
Florin Falcon-handhe turned to meet those wise old eyes. Holding her gaze, he 
lifted his voice to say clearly, "In Mielikki's name and mine own, I, Florin 
Falconhand, born of Cor-myr, Lord of Shadowdale and Knight of Myth Drannor, 
promise on my honor to aid you, Margrueth, on this day and on this field, as you 
would command me."
"Nicely done," Margrueth said with a smile. "Now this is what 111 have you 
doand swiftly, for the spells I wove today burned much life from me I'd not 
live to see sunset whatever befell. Know for your own comfort that I act freely 
in this, and my wits are mine own."
She laid herself down, wheezing a little, atop Nelyssa's body, face to face, 
"Count four breaths, noble Florin, and plunge your blade into my back. Mind that 
it goes right through me, and into the lass beneathand that you hold it thus 
for a breath, no more. Do this." And with that order, she put her lips to the 
paladin's mouth.
Florin stared down at her, swallowed, and then said hurriedly, in the two 
breaths left to him, "You shall be remembered with honor, Margrueth!"
As he'd been bid, he brought his blade down in a clean thrust, right through the 
old sorceress, and into Nelyssa beneath, where her armor was all riven away down 
her front. Margrueth jerked once under his steel, and blue-white light, like 
many tiny lightnings, crackled and danced around the joined lips of the two 
women.
Florin drew his blade out carefully. For a moment, the same radiance clung to 
its suddenly shining length. It looked as bright and sharp as it was when new, 
the scrapes and nicks of battle gone from it.
Yet more wondrous far was what befell where it had been. Margrueth's body was 
twisting and contracting into a thing of curling smoke, to the accompaniment of 
one last, dry chuckle.
That sound faded, and Nelyssa's revealed body stirred, color returned to her 
face, and a light came into her dark eyes. She slowly sat up.
"Florin?" she asked softly as the Harpers and farmers around cried out in 
wonder, gasped, or wept, "Have I slept? Is the day wonor lost?"
And Florin Falconhand cast aside his blade and knelt to take her in his arms. 
"Won for some, Captain won for Mistledale. And yet lost for others, lost 
forever. Margrueth traded her life for yours."
The captain of the Riders turned pale. "No!"
"Aye, Nelyssa," Florin said gently, "you must know this, and hear the truth. She 
chose freely, and worked a magic I did not know, binding me under oath. Mine was 
the blade that took her life, and gave it to you. She was at the end of her 
life, drained by this battle and brought you back to us."
The paladin of Chauntea flung her arms around him and wept.
"Hmmph," Torm said to Rathan as they trudged across the field, taking up the 
best weapons and tossing them on a farmer's sledge to bear back to Ashabenford, 
"women never do that to me. My arms awaitsee? Here they are, two of them, and 
fairly well matched to each other, tooand do ladies sob their sorrows away into 
my breast? No! Is it the cut of his chin, d'you think? The wave in his hair? His 
strong, manly bearing? Those gleaming teeth?"
"All of those," his friend agreed. "Now give me a hand with this halberdthree 
dead ones draped over it, look ye; threeand take comfort in the fact that ye've 
probably been in almost as many strange beds as he has an' that ye're better 
far at stealing things."
"Umm," Torm agreed, looking again at the woman in Florin's arms. His eyes fell 
to the dark, sticky puddle of blood they shared, and he swallowed. So much 
blood
"When we get back to the Six Shields," he told Rathan fiercely, "I'm going to 
get very drunk!"
"Oh? Don't forget that ye lost the bet with Sylune! We won the battle, so ye 
have to wear the scanties ye were putting on her, an' go sit in the window!"
"But she's dead. You won't hold me to"
"Oh, but I will," Rathan said softly. "In memory of her, ye will sit in that 
window this night, if I have to break thy limbs to get the fripperies onto ye."
Torm tore a gorget free of a Zhentilar who'd not be needing it anymore, and 
flung it with a clatter onto the sledge. "I'm going to get very very drunk!" he 
said fiercely, "first."
"Hmm," Rathan said, lifting a body into the air with one hand to pluck daggers 
free with the other, "that'll make the dressing an amusing affair. May I watch?"
"He'll be too drunk to stop anyone from watching," one buzzard commented to the 
other, shifting a little on a low, bare branch as a nearby farmer gave them a 
dirty look, bent to pick up a fallen bow, and then shrugged and turned away, 
knowing he couldn't hit the tree, let alone two watchful carrion birds.
"Faerun certainly affords more entertainment than Shadowhome," Bralatar said, 
remembering the battle as he looked out over the ravaged field.
"And because the peril to and consequences for us are the less, one can really 
enjoy it," Lorgyn replied, watching Merith and Jhessail embrace, and Illistyl, 
after a moment, turn and look around the battlefield for Torm.
"I cannot understand the thinking of Yinthrim, to throw life and all the 
unfolding chances of this world away just to try to avenge kin who may well have 
plotted his own death, had they lived."
"Atari, yes," Lorgyn agreed, "would always plunge into battle, given the 
slightest of excuses, but such folly is unusual for Yinthrim." He looked at the 
site of the tent where the two Malaugrym had perished the night beforenow a 
trampled sward strewn with sprawled bodies. He shrugged. "I guess battle hunger 
overtook them."
"Battle hunger? Attacking three sleeping humans is something done out of 'battle 
hunger1?" Bralatar had a fine, showy grasp of sarcastic incredulity when 
something aroused him to it. He shifted on the branch, fluttering his feathers 
in irritation. "Admit they liked to slay folk, and fatally misjudged the fervor 
of these mortals, and have done with it. Two fewer fools to breed will make our 
house that much the stronger."
"A phrase fit for a speech of any Shadowmaster High," Lorgyn acknowledged, 
bowing his head. "So when, in your judgment, would it be best that we make our 
strike against the three who dared to intrude into Shadowhome, and slay so many 
Malaugrym?''
"When those three rangers are much older, and we've seen far more of this 
worldor at least, not now," Bralatar replied with his usual sharp humor. "Those 
two maids over thereJhessail and Illistyl, if I heard arightstill have spells 
left. And who knows how many of those Harpers are mages? I'm not descending into 
the midst of a battlefield where one old man called down a god not long ago!"
"And the Lord of Battles at that," Lorgyn agreed. "Now is not a good time."
"'Now' is never a good time," Bralatar said dryly.
"At first light," Florin ordered, looking around the map-strewn room, "we ride 
north to Shadowdale, where our swords are sorely needed."
Kuthe nodded grimly. "Haste must be our course, yes." He looked at the cot where 
Nelyssa lay, nodding weakly.
"I shall ride to Shadowdale on the morrow," she said firmly, "and any man who 
shouts at me not to go will serve me as a replacement mount!"
Kuthe closed his open mouth stiffly, and turned his head away, then swung it 
around again, opened his mouth to speak, caught her eyeand closed his jaws once 
more.
Torm and Rathan, scratching at their rough, stiff bandages, sputtered with mirth 
and went out hastily.
"Ah,'twas worth all that jabber to see Lord High-and-Mighty's face!" Torm 
chuckled. "Now, let's be finding that drink I was talking of"
"I'll go with ye," Rathan said grimly. "Too many friends fell this day. I want 
to feel a small fire in my belly this night."
Torm raised his eyebrows. "And why not? You do that every other night; why 
change things now?"
Rathan favored him with both a weary look and an unpriestly gesture.
*****
Just after the two Knights had wearily passed around a corner of the street, a 
door swung open, and Illistyl hurried, white-faced, out into the waiting night. 
Her mind yet burned with the sight of a Rider's crushed leg being amputated, the 
grim faces of sawing surgeon and patient, the Rider's rolling eyes. Illistyl 
shook her head as she stumbled along in the darkness, but could not shake the 
images away
Suddenly something was rising within her. She fell heavily to her knees and 
vomited into the dark grass.
A weary Rider turned his head at the sound, watched her sobbing out the contents 
of her stomach, and turned back to sewing up a comrade's slashed arm.
"Hmm," he said thoughtfully, "it seems great adventurers are human after all."
His older companion winced as the needle went in again. "Oh, they're human, lad 
all too human. That's where most of the trouble begins."
Even Wizards Mast Die
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule
The mists of morning were still drifting off the river as the Knights of Myth 
Drannor and the Riders of Mistledale rode north together, leather creaking 
loudly among the riverbank trees. They pressed on, stiff and sore from 
yesterday's fighting, but more than one Rider wore a wondering smile as he 
looked around at the awakening forest on this bright morning he'd not expected 
to see.
"Such a victory," one man muttered to his companion. "Thousands we sent to their 
graves. 'Twas the favor of the gods, to be sure, that we weren't all sent to the 
Deathrealms in their first charge, and Mistledale laid waste before highsun!"
"Aye, we place much store in the favor of the gods," his comrade replied, "or 
we'd not be riding straight into another battle!" He pointed ahead. Plumes of 
smoke rose into the sky to the north.
Shadowdale was burning.
The Knights and Riders pressed on up the Mistle Trail, urging their mounts to 
greater haste.
Torm waved a hand at the smoke and said loudly and bitterly, "Look! Well get 
there in time to join the Zhents at their fires, with the dale pillaged and 
burned and not a man or maid left to fight for!"
"Say not so!" Merith told him, but Kuthe and Nelyssa nodded slowly.
"We've taken this way in haste before," the captain of the Riders said, her eyes 
very dark, "and spent more than a day in the forest and that was a few riders 
on fresh, swift mountsnot a force this large that fought yesterday."
Belkram was frowning and holding his head to one side, as if listening to 
something. He straightened in his saddle and said, "There is a way to take us 
there more swiftly."
Florin Falconhand, who rode at the head of the column, turned his head. "You 
mean magic," he said grimly. tfls that wise, given the chaos ruling sorcery?"
Belkram listened for a breath longer, and then shrugged. "Sylune says 
teleportation seems unaffectedit served her even on the battlefield 
yester-morn, passing wild magic shields to do so."
"Without a body, she can't cast any spells," Kuthe pointed out. "What good is it 
if the Lady Jhessail here hurls one of us on ahead? A lone rider makes a better 
target than a relief force!"
"There is a way to take us all," Belkram replied slowly, passing on the words 
from the stone that held the Witch of Shadowdale. "Elminster taught it to 
mher."
The ranger nodded. "There is a risk," Florin said; it was a statement, not a 
query. He looked around at the others, holding up his hand for a halt. "Are you 
willing to take on that danger? All of you?"
The Knights nodded without hesitation. Among the Riders were some swift glances 
back and forth, and shrugs. One .leaned forward and asked Florin, "Are you?"
The Shield of Shadowdale shrugged. "Of course."
"He's a Knight of Myth Drannor," Rathan explained as if to a child.
"Which is to say, he's a reckless idiot," Torm elaborated in a stage whisper.
The men of Mistledale were still chuckling when Captain Nelyssa said crisply, "I 
will undergo this magic. Let us be about it."
"We'll need some space," Belkram said, and pointed into the trees. "That glade 
there."
Nelyssa nodded. "Let all who are unwilling to chance this spell stay here on the 
trail." She turned her horse's head and guided it into the trees.
As they followed, Belkram looked at Jhessail. "You must do the casting."
She wrinkled her nose at him. "So I'd gathered."
No one stayed on the road. When everyone was arrayed around Belkram, he took off 
the chain and gave it to Jhessail. She held up the stone, and grew still for a 
moment as she listened. Merith, who'd been in such castings before, slid deftly 
from his saddle and lay on the ground, taking hold of one hoof of his horse and 
one of his lady's ankles. Florin edged his mount over to take a firm hold on 
Merith's horse, and Sharantyr, Itharr, Belkram, Captain Nelyssa, and Kuthe 
followed, creating a human chain.
Jhessail smiled her thanks, and said, "Draw in close, everyoneto touch at least 
one other person or their mount. Remain that way, and don't pull free until 
we're elsewhere."
She drew a deep breath and put the stone into her mouth. Closing her eyes in 
concentration, Jhessail followed Sylune's guidance in the casting. The loop of 
chain dangling from her chin rattled as she moved. After a brief series of 
gestures, she threw both hands high into the air and froze.
A blue mist raced out from her body to swirl around them all. It rose, growing 
thicker and winking with small flashes of blue light light that was suddenly 
blinding, blotting the world out in an shifting, drifting swirl that faded away 
to show Faerun again.
They were in a different clearinga larger space littered with felled trees and 
stacked firewood. To the north was daylight, where the woods gave way to the 
first fields of Shadowdale. Through the cloaking trees, they saw the stone 
bridge over the Ashaba, where a watchful guard always stood.
A guard of three frightened old men, whose spears trembled in their hands as 
they shouted in alarm at the sudden appearance of so many horsemen. Florin took 
his hand from Merith's horse to raise it in a reassuring salute.
Jhessail shuddered and collapsed silently onto her husband, the stone falling 
from her mouth.
"Is she?" Belkram and Itharr said together, leaning anxiously down. Merith 
cradled her as he reached out, plucked up the stone that was Sylune, and held it 
up to Belkram.
"Drained, not dead," the elf said softly. "A mass tele-port is something far 
beyond her Art. Though Sylune gave direction, my Jhess worked the spell."
"We must still make haste," Nelyssa reminded.
Illistyl frowned. "Florin! Come back here!"
The ranger, who was halfway to the bridge, acknowledged the relieved greetings 
of the dalesmen before he turned questioningly.
"I haven't Art to equal Jhess's," the younger sorceress said, "but I can manage 
something you should use now."
Florin was already hurrying his war horse back to her. Firefoam had paced 
restlessly back and forth behind the lines of the battle yesterday, and was 
eager to get into a proper fray; he snorted and tossed his head as they 
approached Illistyl, fearing he would be relegated to stand and watch, again. 
The diminutive sorceress stood looking up at him as his great muzzle lowered to 
her nose.
"How would you like to fly?" she asked softly.
Firefoam's bugle awoke echoes from the trees around and made many of the other 
horses stamp and whinny.
"Fly ahead," Illistyl said, looking up at Florin, "and see where we're needed. 
Rally folk, and return if you need us anywhere in particularotherwise, we'll 
just charge on up the road and kill Zhents!"
"A shrewd grasp of tactics," Captain Nelyssa said dryly.
Illistyl cast her spell with deft speed.
Florin scooped the limp form of Jhessail from Merith's arms and settled her 
against his own chest.
"Done! Get you gone!" Illistyl cried, waving her hands; Florin smiled his thanks 
and saluted as Fire-foam bounded aloftand was gone across the sky, heading for 
the distant Tower of Ashaba.
As they hurried across, Jhessail asked the first old farmer on the bridge, "How 
goes the battle?"
"Not well," he rasped. "Too many Zhents!"
"A problem we're familiar with," Torm agreed grandly, urging his horse off the 
bridge.
An instant later, the ground rocked and thundered. Riders fought to control 
snorting mounts and stay in their saddles as they gaped at a huge ball of flame 
that rose up, up into the sky over Shadowdale.
"The tower?" Illistyl gasped, white to the lips. "Florin?"
"Not the tower," Jhessail said, shaking her head. "But close by, west and 
south."
"The temple of Lathander," Rathan grunted, "or I'm an idiot."
"You are an idiot," Torm pointed out.
Rathan's reply was a certain wordless gesture with his mace as he hauled on the 
reins, taking his horse to one side of the cart road and gaining room to gallop. 
Torm cast a quick look back to see all the Riders doing so, and pulled his mount 
to the left, catching a glare from Kuthe for his tardiness.
"Ready, all?" Captain Nelyssa asked crisply. "For-wardr
At her yell, they nudged their mounts into a gallop and swept north into the 
heart of Shadowdale.
The smoke lay like a haze in the air here, drifting out of the trees to the 
east, and the fields around them were green and deserted. Up ahead, they could 
hear the swelling sound of shouts and screams and the clangor of steel on steel. 
Here and there a blade flashed as it caught the sunlight through the smoke and 
swirling dust.
The crossroads in front of the Old Skull Inn was heaped with dead. The twisted 
mounds were so high the Zhentilar, advancing in a great horde from the east, had 
to scramble and climb. The grisly, slippery wall was being held against them by 
desperate dalesmen wielding axes and blades.
Among the dusty defenders were Storm Silverhand and her sister, Dove, both clad 
in battered and scorched plate armor but bareheaded, their silver tresses 
swirling as they fought. Storm leapt into the air and smashed aside a foe's 
blade, her other hand snaking in to take him by the throat. Muscles rippled in 
her arm as they crashed back down to earth together. The Zhent blackhelm 
struggled for a moment in her iron gripthen fell limp, his neck broken. Two of 
his fellows scrambled up the mound of dead, waving blades to get their chance at 
the Bard of Shadowdale.
Dove Falconhand took that chance away, rushing along the line of defenders to 
thrust one Zhent desperately aside into the other armsman. Off-balance, the 
blackhelms stumbled among the corpses. Storm dumped the man she'd just slain 
atop one, and kicked the other in the face with her boot. He fell down the heap, 
head rolling limply, and was smashed aside by more Zhentilar rushing up to 
challenge Storm in their turn.
"That's the problem with Zhents," Rathan growled as they turned their horses 
toward the black-armored host crowded up against the wall of dead. "There're 
always too many of them."
"Lances down!" Nelyssa cried, and led the charge.
Through the thunder of pounding hooves they heard someone of Shadowdale cry, 
"The Riders! The Riders of Mistledale!"
"And the mighty Torm, too!" the thief shouted back, just before they crashed 
into the Zhent lines.
Men reeled like broken dolls under the impact of hooves and lances and 
thundering war horses, and when the press of bodies slowed their progress, the 
Riders let go their lances and laid about themselves with swords and maces.
"Shadowdale!" Dove Falconhand snarled, leading a charge from the ridge of slain.
There were screams of agony and frustration from the Zhents, packed too tightly 
together to raise weapons or move from the blades.
A desperately wielded spear sought Term's thigh; he sprang from his saddle and 
vaulted into the fray, drawn sword extended between his boots. He came down atop 
a Zhentilar and rode the man to the ground, stabbing viciously with the dagger 
in his free hand. The man convulsed and lay still; by then Torm was two kills 
away, his slim blade and dagger sliding in and out before the close-packed 
Zhents could react.
With a wall of corpses around him like a shield, he struck out from between 
their bodies, swift and sure, thrusting, dancing away from blades until the 
crash of a felled Rider and his horse cleared some space, and the dead began to 
topple and slump all around.
Into the opened space leapt Storm, clapping a gasping Torm on his shoulder. 
"Bravely done!"
"Ahall for you Lady," Torm huffed, trying to essay a courtly bowand slipping 
in gore so that he lurched to one knee. The fall saved his life; a whirling axe 
meant for his head flashed harmlessly through empty air.
Storm hauled him upright. "The battle's this way," she said helpfully, pointing 
with a sword that was red to the hilt.
He gave her a fierce smile in answer. Then his jaw dropped. "By the gods, look!" 
he bellowed, pointing. Storm turned in time to see Belkram, Itharr, and 
Shar-antyr advance another pace through the ranks of Zhen-tilar. Fighting in 
unison, standing close together in a human arrowhead, they were dealing death 
with furious speed.
"The Rangers Three," Storm said, watching her pupils in admiration.
The hesitant gangliness she'd seen all too often the day she'd fought Belkram 
and Itharr at the farmhouse was gone. Now they moved like dancers, deft and 
quick. Sharantyr was the key. Her smooth style had drawn the two Harpers into a 
team. Storm began to believe their survival in the castle of the Malaugrym was 
more than good fortune bolstered by the aid of Mystra and Elminster. She shook 
her head in pleased admiration and threw herself into the battle once more, 
coming up alongside the Rangers Three in their bloody foray into the Zhent 
ranks.
The Rider charge had cleared space enough to fight, and the easy killing was 
done. Fresh Zhents were pressing forward for their first chance to fight, and 
there seemed no end to them.
They'd struck at Shadowdale from the west, and from the north. Some fell magic 
had wrought a great explosion and fire westward, hard by the Twisted Tower. 
There was fighting all over the dale, and the day might still be lostbut this 
welcome, unexpected aid had come from Mistledale, from whence she'd expected 
only more blackhelms.
"Azuth be with us," she breathed, feeling fresh sorrow at the thought that 
Mystra was no more.
Storm swept her notched long sword up to strike aside a reaching halberd. 
Catching hold of it as the man rushed helplessly forward, she pulled, sprawling 
him to the turf in front of her. A dalesman stabbed the Zhent in the face before 
he could rise, and from somewhere near at hand Storm heard the deep laughter of 
Bronn Selgard, the smith. Dove must be rallying the last folk from the inn to 
join this push, to drive the Zhents back into the trees.
There was a ringing sound as the great iron-headed hammer Bronn wielded crashed 
down on some unfortunate Zhent's helm. The winded Rangers Three began to fall 
back. A spell hurled bodies in all directions, tearing a breach in the wall of 
corpses behind her.
Storm turned, frowningcreating a breach for the Zhents to pour through? What 
simpleton had birthed such a plan?and then laughed aloud in delight.
"For Shadowdale!" came the roar from beyond the wall. Warriors in full plate 
armor rode through the breach, lances gleaming. At their head, three figures 
rode abreast: Florin; Mourngrym, lord of Shadowdale; and Shaerl, his lady.
"'Ware!" Storm yelled to the Rangers Three, waving them aside.
Dove sprang acrobatically across the path of the charging horses, somersaulted 
in a clanking of protesting armor, and fetched up beside Storm. Just then, the 
lances of the charging dalefolk came down, crashing into the massed Zhentilar in 
a great screaming of men and horses and tortured metal.
As first, the horses were slowed by the sheer weight of blackhelms standing 
against them. The mounted armsmen of the tower spurred out and around them, 
striking at the foe on either side. When the last horseman had charged, the 
Zhent lines had fallen back a good twenty pacesa distance marked by a carpet of 
black-armored fallen.
The dale riders pulled back to spare their horses from Zhent blades, and a cheer 
went up from the weary farmers and merchants who'd held the wall of dead so long 
against the forefront of the Zhent army.
A little space opened up between the defenders and the army of Zhentil Keep; 
Dove stared across it and hissed, "Oh, for some arrows"
"All gone, hours ago," Storm told her, and they embraced wearily, eyes on the 
foe. Both sides had paused to catch breath, it seemed, staring at each other 
across the fallen, but making no move to attack.
"Gods, look how many there are," Shaerl murmured. "Can we hold them until 
sunset?"
"We must," Mourngrym replied shortly, looking around at the dead. "And dark'll 
bring the wolves and wild dogs out to feed, too."
"Well fought, you three," Storm called to Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr, who'd 
sat down together on some dead Zhentilar, rubbing at aching shoulders and 
bruised forearms.
"Of course," Itharr replied. "After all, you taught us."
Storm chuckled. "To dance with your blade, aye, a littlebut fighting as one is 
your own doing."
"They're coming again," Dove said, striding forward."
"Ware, all!"
She swung her sword in wide, wild arcs to loosen stiffening muscles, and set 
herself to meet the Zhentilar attack; a cautious affair this time, with two or 
three blackhelms moving against each defender.
"This could be bad," Belkram murmured.
Sharantyr sighed. "Just try to stay alive I need you both."
"You do?" Itharr asked, adopting Term's manner of mock astonishment.
"I do," Sharantyr growled back at him. "We've got those Malaugrym to catch, 
remember?"
"Gods," Belkram cursed as he caught a hard-swung Zhent blade on his own and was 
driven a pace back. "Do Elminster's little tasks never end?"
"Where is Elminster, anyway?" Itharr panted, slashing a staggering Zhent across 
the face and bringing his blade up into the throat of the blackhelm fencing with 
Sharantyr.
"Off saving some other corner of the Realms, no doubt," Belkram said, driving 
his foe back with a few solid swings.
"I don't care about other corners of the Realms," Torm called to them, "only the 
one I'm in."
"An essentially selfish philosophy," Dove scolded him.
"But one that all lesser mortals must needs cling to, if they want to cling to 
life," Torm returned archly. He threw the blade in his hand into one eye of a 
snarling Zhent, who was charging in beside the one he was fighting. The man 
crashed down, and the thief leapt high to avoid being knocked over. His Zhent 
opponent wasn't so nimble, and toppled sideways, whereupon Hammer-hand Bucko, 
the wagonmaker of the dale, calmly crushed the man's head with a sledgehammer.
"Thank you," Torm told him politely.
After gaping at him for a moment in amazement, Hammerhand grinned.
A trumpet rang out, the Zhents pressed forward, and the defenders of Shadowdale 
became all too busy to talk.
A tortured scream topped the fray as Nelyssa's mount reared up, three blades in 
its belly, and went down. The paladin threw herself clear at the last moment. 
Only some desperate bladework by Storm and Dove, sparks dancing from their 
furiously plied blades, kept the captain of the Riders alive until she could 
find her feet and fight on.
Kuthe grunted in pain and went down, a spear through him, and a moment later the 
Rider beside him fell, transfixed by three Zhent blades.
"Too many of them!" Merith snarled in frustration, swinging two swords in 
deadly, whirling unison. "What price sundown now?"
"There's too many! We can't hold them!" Illistyl shouted, swinging a sword 
awkwardly.
"We must hold them!" Mourngrym snarled back at her from the heart of a knot of 
Zhents.
"Where in the name of the Seven Dancing Gods is the Old Mage?" Storm raged as 
she carved her way to the lord of Shadowdale. "Especially now that we need 
himfor once."
"The temple," a wounded priest of Lathander gasped from behind her. "He stood 
alone thereor with a woman, some saidagainst Bane himself!"
Storm turned and stared at the rising column of black smoke that marked the 
distant temple. "No," she whispered. "Oh, no." She leapt clear of the fray, 
scant inches ahead of a Zhent blade, and sprinted away across the heaped dead.
Sharantyr turned, hacked through a Zhent black-helm twice her size, and saw 
Storm spring into the saddle of a dale war horse. It leapt into a full gallop 
like an arrow shot from a bow, heading west.
Though Shar whirled back to face another foe, she still saw Storm's anguished 
face in her mind. No one should look like that. Nothing should ever happen in 
Faerun to make the Bard of Shadowdale look like that.
She parried the Zhentilar blade and spun away to run after Storm's racing dapple 
gray, heedless of the heaped dead.
Uncertainly, Belkram turned to follow, but Itharr shouted in alarm.
"Look you!" He pointed the other way, east beyond Krag Pool, where new plumes of 
smoke were rising through the green leaves of the trees.
"Gods," Shaerl gasped, her face white, as she stared east into the blazing 
forest. "The Zhents have fired the wood! The dale may become our pyre yet!"
The defenders of Shadowdale, too few and too weary to fight a blaze, stared at 
the quickening flames in horror.
"Now," Dove said firmly, "'tis time!" She held up the blade she bore and called, 
"Eanamorrath!"
Lighting leapt from its suddenly blazing length, crackling along the line of 
blackhelms to strike the blade Lord Florin wielded. His sword flashed. Florin 
hissed at the shock of the bolt surging through the weapon, and then the 
lightning leapt back, sinking back into Dove's blade as if it were an errant 
phantom returning home.
In its wake lay a blackened path of dead Zhentilar, sprawled wherever the bolt 
had danced, and the air was sharp with the smell of the strike that had felled 
them. The surviving Zhent warriors drew back in disarray, leaving the defenders 
alone with the dead.
"Florin!" Itharr shouted. "Lord Florin!"
The Shield of Shadowdale turned his head.
Itharr called, "We must pray to Mielikki for a downpour!"
"But if all the gods are cast down and powerless" a Rider leaning on his sword 
nearby said.
"No! He's right!" Illistyl snapped. "Mielikki and El-dath dwell in Faerun; their 
power is sourced here. Shaerl! Is your maid, Jenna, anywhere about?"
"II sent her to help Jhaele tend the wounded at the Old Skull," Shaerl said 
doubtfully, wiping sweat and tangled hair out of her eyes. "Why?"
"She worships Eldath," Illistyl snarled. "Come!"
"And what of the Zhents?" Mourngrym bellowed. He waved an arm to indicate the 
hundreds of Zhentilar still facing them, though the blackhelms seemed to be 
retreating to the trees at the edge of the dale.
"Fall back," Illistyl told him. "Back to this ridge of bodies. You can see the 
inn from there, and Florin and the Rangers Three can join Jenna in prayer. If 
the woods burn, we are all lost, whether we fight for Shadowdale or Zhentil 
Keep!"
They all stared at her a moment, then scrambled to take up new positions among 
the mounds of fallen. Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr found themselves trotting 
toward the inn, panting, while Florin ran on ahead, feet racing as if he were 
rested and fresh. Shaerl and Mourngrym ran along behind them as rearguard, and 
the stout priest Rathan puffed after the hurrying band.
"Gods," Belkram said, stumbling as his throbbing feet sent fresh lances of pain 
upward. "I don't think the gods meant me to be a hero! Being one of those 
sleeping temple guards seems more within my grasp!"
"Here, now!" Rathan Thentraver said in offended tones. "Dost thou slander the 
holy?"
"All too often," Itharr told him as they picked their way among the wounded laid 
on blankets, restless in their pain. Someone was wailing in grief, and 
blood-soaked bandagesand flieswere everywhere. "What does this Jenna look 
like?"
"Just look for Florin," Belkram instructed, pointing at the open inn door, "He 
must be in th"
The ground heaved. A deafening howl of rage and grief smashed into the ears of 
everyone in Shadowdale. Thrown to their knees, the three rangers looked back 
east, from whence the sound had come.
A sphere of raging flames hung high in the air over the burning trees, spinning. 
The flames from the woods below were being drawn up into it. It pulsed, becoming 
almost blinding in its furybut against the bright whirling flames a figure 
could be seen standing in its fiery heart; a wildly leaping figure clad in the 
black tatters of a gown.
"Oh, sweet gods spare us!" someone gasped.
The woods were dark and hissing now as the last fire soared up out of them. The 
sphere spun once more before it hurled its fire down in a ravening beam of utter 
destruction, into the Zhent soldiers crowded along the Voonlar road. They did 
not even have time to scream before they were tumbling ashes. The scouring 
flames lashed the very stones into rum.
The Central Blade of Bane's Black Gauntlet was no more.
"Who?" one of the Riders asked in awe, staring up at the figure who stood on 
empty air above the trees, all her flames spent now.
"The Simbul," Shaerl whispered. She turned, swept a tankard off a table, and 
drained it at a single gulp.
"The Witch-Queen?" the man gasped. "The Shield Against Thay?"
"The same," Shaerl replied bitterly, and turned into Mourngrym's arms with a 
sob.
"This can only mean one thing," the lord of Shadow-dale said grimly, holding his 
shaking, weeping lady. "El-minster is dead."
O Time to be JmAy HeRoes
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule
In a deepness that very few Malaugrym know, in the ever-shifting cellars of the 
Castle of Shadows, there was a place where thinking shadows glided endlessly 
through the gloom, vast and slow. These ponderous phantoms circled a grotto 
where shapeshifters who bore the title Shadowmaster High had been wont to hide 
the bones of rivals and others they'd deemed expedient to make 'vanish.'
The grotto was a cold cavern of rough rock where waters dripped endlessly among 
the pale, chill glows of fungi, but at its heart two seats faced each 
otherseats carved out of the flanks of massive, ancient stalagmites and these 
seats each bore a curious graven symbol believed to be the sign of Malaug 
himself. It was a rune found in few places in the Castle of Shadows, and all of 
its occurrences were well known in the lore of the House of Malaugsave these 
two.
There was not much else to see in the bone-white glow but tumbled rock and 
bones but there was much to feel, hanging heavy and watchful on all sides.
Even the youngest Shadowmasters had heard tales of locales in Shadowhome where 
mighty magics slumbered, which only the Shadowmaster High could per- ceive and 
wield. This was one of those places.
The young and ambitious Malaugrym Argast and Amdramnar had recently discovered 
the grotto in separate, private explorations. Both had been guided in their 
wanderings among the shifting shadows by the writings of Shadowmaster High 
Melvydur. Dead these thousand years and more, Melvydur mentioned the grotto as 
the place where the dynasty he founded was conceivedand where he laid to rest 
the bodies of all his sons who rebelled against him. His writings end when the 
last son succeeded in destroying Melvydur.
This secret grotto of silent bones and uncaring rock was a gloomy place but it 
was a place of power. Ancient magic lay heavy in the air, awaiting the right 
word or gesture to awaken it. And more than anything else, those of the blood of 
Malaug hungered after power.
Argast and Amdramnar were rivals, and perhaps the best of the younger generation 
of Shadowmasters. Certainly they were the most subtle, patient, and polite in 
their dealingsand so commanded the most respect, not to mention fear, among 
their elders. Those elders would have been most surprised to see them sharing 
any place in relative peace.
Indeed, as they sat facing each other, their faces were grim and wary, their 
fingers very close to hurling slaying spells and wielding powerful and deadly 
items. Yet they sat, and did not move to rend and slay. Their elders were right 
to fear them.
"Have we agreement?" Argast asked.
"By my name, we do," Amdramnar replied. "Have we agreement?"
"By my name, we do," Argast responded as they watched the drops of their blood 
slowly flow together into the vial.
They rose as one, and Argast took the vial and stoppered it, handing it to 
Amdramnar to place on the seat he'd vacated. What befell one Shadowmaster would 
now also afflict the otheruntil the vial was broken by someone using the right 
spells to prevent grave damage to them both.
"If this agreement is to end, we must both meet here to quench it," Argast 
intoned, continuing the old ritual both of them had read about, but never 
witnessed.
"Agreed. When we meet, each of us may bring with him one other of the houseno 
more, and no other beings," Amdramnar responded.
"Agreed," they affirmed together, and walked away from the heart of the grotto, 
to where the cloaking shadows slid endlessly by.
"Were it not for so many destroyed," Argast said as their eyes met again, "I 
should never have agreed to work with you in anything. And yet now I welcome the 
prospect."
Amdramnar inclined his head. "I, too, hope that trust, even friendship, can grow 
out of this. Whatever befalls, we must work together to destroy the three beings 
who dared to strike down so many of our blood. They have done it once, and could 
well come again and what if they brought the Great Foe with them this tune, or 
an army of lesser mages?"
"You befriended them," Argast said, "seeking to learn their ways and secrets. Do 
you think they will seek to return?"
Amdramnar opened his mouth to reply, then sighed, shrugged, and shook his head. 
"I know not. Their deeds and words did not always strike a good match 
togetherand they were accompanied by some sort of vigilant sentience of greater 
sorcery than I command."
"Elminster, of course."
"No, I think not. A gentler, more neutral regard less knowing, less afire with 
humor, let us say. I touched this intelligence only fleetingly."
Argast lifted his own shoulders and let them fall. "As you say, you have had 
contact with this mysterious other, and I have not. It is not Elminster, then." 
He hesitated as they stepped together onto the .back of the flapping shadow 
they'd been waiting for. It bore them away into roiling dimness, and Argast 
added, "Please do not take my next query as anything more unfriendly than a 
desire to know if some future use can be made of it. You fancied the woman as a 
mate?"
Amdramnar regarded him expressionlessly. "I did, and do."
"Have you any knowledge of her feelings toward you?"
"She did not know what to make of me. I was not the menacing scaly thing she 
expectedbut she never relaxed, though she did trust me so far as to open 
herself to attack on several occasions at least once to see what I'd do, I am 
certain."
"And what would you do if you met her again?"
"I do not know. I must learn more of her true powers, aims, and loyalties. At 
present I still desire her as a mate and as part of our house. Although the 
damage done by her weapon was unprecedented, she was acting at first to defend 
herself even as you or I would against treachery from a fellow Malaugrym. That 
she and her companions came here to do us harm is, I think, likely. That they 
did not know us is certain, and so I must conclude that they came here on 
principle, or following the orders of another."
"Elminster? If not the Great Foe, then who?"
"That is one of the things we must learn." The shadow bore them into brighter 
and more tranquil surroundings, a placid blue pool wreathed in mists, and 
Amdramnar added, "Yet if the need arises, I would strike to slay her and her two 
companions without hesitation. The men must die in any case, for the honor of 
our house. If the woman proves less than I believe her to be, death can come to 
her whenever her usefulness in breeding the next generation of Shadowmasters is 
done."
He turned his head to regard Argast. "On the other hand, she is but one of many 
countless maids who walk
Faerun right now and many of those, I'm given to understand, have a strong 
talent for sorcery."
"More suitable mates may await both of us?"
"And many of our fellows, perhaps. We shall see. Faerun awaits."
"So many riches denied to us for so long."
"At the command of the Great Foe, rememberbolstered by craven Shadowmasters 
High who feared both his magic and the access all of us would have to things not 
under the control of the Shadow Throne."
"This is truth," Argast said softly. "Even I've seen more in the great scrying 
portal over the years than Dhalgrave intended, and I am one of those who pays 
little attention to intrigues and watching over other planes. It is no wonder 
some of our eldersMilhvar comes to mindspent much time and effort on covert 
expeditions into the realms of Faerun, seeking magic."
"And mates," Amdramnar said with the ghost of a smile, "if the rumors are true."
"He has offspring in Faerun?"
"Ignorant of their heritage, and perhaps weak in their shapeshifting, no doubt," 
Amdramnar replied, "but yesseveral, I believe."
Argast frowned. "Unknown offspring aside, how many of our kin walk Faerun right 
now?"
"Whoever survived battle with Sharantyr and her companions, when the sword took 
her back to Faerun. Ahorga, I have seen and two others who took many shapes, 
but are possibly Atari and Yinthrim. There are others: two working together, and 
at least one more. I cannot believe all of these fled the battle; some of the 
kin must have seized upon the emptiness of the Shadow Throne to defy the 
standing decrees and make their own ways into Faerun."
"Bralatar and Lorgyn have both vanished from their chambers," Argast said 
quietly, "and have been absent for more than a dozen feastings."
"So," Amdramnar replied, one side of his face lifting into a smile, "let us do 
likewise, you and I. To Faerun, to take the shapes of others, and watch 
patiently, and learn before we move against these mortals. In the chaos ruling 
Faerun right now, we dare not rely on magic. Any foray there now will be very 
dangerousbut what opportunities for hunting!"
"I feel its attraction more strongly as the years pass and we visit it not," 
Argast replied. "I begin to understand why so many of our elders defied the 
Great Foe even when they knew death awaited them."
"Shadowhome and the planes we can readily reach never felt limiting in any way 
before," Amdramnar said quietly. "Faerun seemed to be no more than some sort of 
fanciful land of beasts where the restless of our house went to play, and when 
careless got hurt there. But now"
"Let us prepare," Argast said, eyes shining. "I want to be in Faerun without 
delay!"
The shadow glided to the place it always did, and they stepped off it and went 
on up a dusty stair choked with the skeletal remains of dead and forgotten 
servants, into an undercrypt several stairs beneath the Hall of Griffons. There 
they parted, ascending into the castle proper by different ways so as not to be 
seen together by interested eyes.
The gigantic shadow that had been their steed drifted on to a place the two 
Malaugrym did not know. There it rose into a different form and called forth 
four spherical stones of winking blue fire to orbit one of its wrists endlessly.
"And so two more of the restless of our house go to play," it said in amused 
tones, "one at least formally welcoming the prospect! Interesting times in old 
Shadowhome, indeed!"
And as it chuckled, it did something else in the darkness, and vanished to 
other, deeper places. There were many locales in Shadowhome that neither Argast 
nor Amdramnar had ever visited, or known about. That lack of knowledge, though, 
didn't seem likely to prove fatal to either of them. Yet.
Faerun, Shadowdale, Flamerule
The serene radiance of Selune fell upon ravaged Shadowdale as it did on all the 
rest of Faerun this night. Bright moonlight gleamed on both the armor of weary 
dale sentries and the bloodied gear of the dead. There was no sound but the 
howling of wolves and the bawling of cattle whose dead masters would never 
return to milk them. The two women who stood in a lonely place of scorched 
stones were as silent as the night breezes.
One was the Bard of Shadowdale, Storm Silverhand, her face grim and smudged with 
dirt and old, dried blood that was not her own. She still wore her armor, and 
leaned on a sword that had seen much use this day. Had she not recently drunk of 
a certain well-hidden decanter in her kitchen, she would be trembling with 
weariness now.
The other woman had no body left to tireshe was a thing of ghostly radiance, a 
softly curved bright shadow in the night. She floated upright above the stones 
of her long-burned hut, face lifted to the stars, and began an invocation to 
Mystra more ancient than she was and that was old indeed. No one disturbed 
them, or came near; such doings at the ruined hut were why the folk of the dale 
still called her the Witch of Shadowdale, and shunned this place.
"Great Lady of Mysteries, hear me," the ghostly lady said into the night, 
picturing the dark, star-filled eyes of the goddess. "Your servant Sylune 
entreats."
She and Storm both knew well that Mystra was no more, but perhaps the one who 
had taken her place would hear or steadfast Azuth, the Hand of Sorcery.
Her call fell into silence, and she stood there in the moonlight feeling more 
lonely than she had for years. "Mystra, hear me," she said at last. "Azuth, hear 
me."
From out of the darkness of vast distances, a voice echoed. A voice she knew. 
"Azuth hears, little sister."
"Lord of Spellcraft," Sylun6 breathed, almost shuddering in relief, "does 
Elminster live?"
There came a twinkling of lights in the air above her, soft green and blue 
radiances that sparkled as they spun slowly about each other. From out of the 
heart of this occurrence came the deep, confident voice of the god Azuth. "I did 
not feel him pass but I cannot feel his mind now, either. Much is in chaos; I 
cannot be sure of his fate."
"I stand in Shadowdale," Sylune told him. "We have resisted the work of Bane 
here thus far, at great cost."
"Aye, great cost, indeed. Mystra returned to us, and was lost again forever. She 
and Elminster fought Bane for possession of a Celestial Stair"
Sylun6 closed her eyes in despair, but forced herself to say on. "I need your 
guidance, High One. We face another peril: shapeshifters who call themselves 
Malau-grym, who came into Faerun when the Sword of Mystra brought three heroes 
back to us, three who went to the shadow realm of the shapeshifters to do Our 
Lady's work. They are loose in the land, working mischief."
The great voice seemed to hold a tone of bitter amusement. "These days, it seems 
half the multiverse is loose in Faerun, working mischief one Azuth among them. 
My powers are twisted and lessened. 'Tis all I can do to hold the Realms 
together, with all the irresponsible spell-hurlers active. Red Wizards, 
Calishite lords, Zhentarim, and near a thousand ambitious lone wizards whose 
magic is mighty. Gods and mortals alike are trying to take advantage of the 
widespread chaos. And without Mystra, magic is truly unreliable. I work 
constantly to keep the fabric of all from being torn utterly by these ignorant 
wielders of Art so that Toril will not be dashed apart in utter destruction. You 
have my sympathy, Sister, and my regrets  but you must contend with the House 
of Malaug on your own; I dare not intervene. Gather your allies, and work as you 
have never worked before. 'Tis time to truly be heroes."
Sylune stood motionless. "May you succeed in your task," she said softly.
"And may you find the good fortune Our Lady Mystra could not," the god replied, 
"and prevail. Know that I love you, Sylune, and would aid if I could. Look not 
to seek divine aid again until this Time of Troubles is past." And the small 
storm of twinkling lights melted silently away, leaving the night sky above the 
stones empty.
The ghostly figure of the Witch of Shadowdale stared up at the empty air where 
Azuth had manifested, then turned toward her sister Storm and reached out.
"Take me away from here," she pleaded, her voice on the edge of tears. "Take me 
back to your kitchen, and the fire, and your arms."
"Of course," Storm said quietly. She bent to take up the stone Belkram had 
surrendered, and Sylune saw that her face was wet with tears.
They walked south and then east together, taking a long route around the heart 
of the moonlit dale to avoid challenges and the worst of the dead.
"You heard all?" Sylune asked grimly.
Storm sighed. "Aye, this dale is going to be very different if Elminster is no 
more."
"He was a fatherand a friendto you more than any of us," Sylune said softly. " 
'Tis I should be comforting you."
Storm shook her head wearily, as if to clear it. "I did not feel him die. I 
can't be sure he may still live."
"And if he does not?"
"Then it is as Azuth told us: time for usall of us Sevento truly be heroes, 
without his comforting aid and guidance and vigilance for our safety."
Sylune sighed. "I never thought I'd be alive without him to turn to. He seems as 
permanent a feature of the Realms as Mount Waterdeep, or Anauroch, or the 
Shaar." They climbed a stile and descended into a field of parsnips. Halfway 
down one of its long rows, she added, "Sharantyr is beside herself! I thought 
she'd tear the two prisoners apart with her bare hands."
"She gave her blade to Mourngrym because she feared she'd want to use it," Storm 
said softly. "My own fury is past. El told me how tired of life he'd become more 
than once this last season."
"Should we let those two go?"
"Mercy has ever been our watchword here, and yet"
Storm's voice trailed away, and with slow deliberation she sheathed the blade 
she held. "I may come to feel the rage Sharantyr holds again, tomorrow. Since 
Doust became lord, we have always shown the people that justice by fair trial 
holds sway in Shadowdale. So we will have a trial and justice, and Mourngrym 
will have the hard task of sentencing."
She was silent for a long time before she added in a whisper, "I am glad of 
that, because I don't feel like holding trials at all I want to go out and kill 
things."
"Your sword arm?" Sharantyr asked, watching Itharr wince and reach for his 
shoulder.
He nodded. "I've worn it out these last two days."
"And seen enough death to last several lifetimes," Belkram added quietly, 
handing him a goblet. Itharr took it in his good hand and hastily sipped at it 
to prevent a spill.
Sharantyr dug her fingers into the muscles of his shoulder, and he shuddered 
uncontrollably. He handed the goblet back to Belkram hastily.
"Thanks  I'll want the rest of it when this long- taloned beast here stops 
tearing my shoulder apart!"
Sharantyr managed a playful snarl, but then fell silent again, her face sad. She 
shook her head when Belkram offered the decanter to her, and asked him, "When 
will you get Sylune back?"
"In the morning, Storm said." Belkram poured himself a goblet and drained most 
of it at one gulp. "I imagine they're meeting to talk about what they must do to 
defend the dale now that Elminster's gone."
"That's a meeting we must have, too," Itharr said, looking up. "Whither now, for 
the three of us?"
"What have we to jaw about," Sharantyr asked with sudden fierceness as her 
fingers worked on his stiff shoulders with iron tenderness, "until we've dealt 
with the Malaugrym? Elminster gave us a task, and it's unfinished. Harpersand 
Knights of Myth Drannordon't walk away from their duty. Not now, not ever!"
When she caught Belkram's look of wonder, she blushed, turning her head away. 
"I'm sorry," Shar mumbled, her voice quavering for an instant. "I his dying 
I'm too upset to make sense."
"No, Lady," Belkram said, advancing to take one of her hands in his own. He 
knelt and kissed it in one smooth movement. "You make perfect sensenow, and 
always."
Sharantyr turned her head away again from the rising fire she saw in his eyes, 
and tried to blink away her sudden tears, tears that would not stop falling.
Uncaring crickets were chirping as the Bard of Shadowdale turned in at her 
arched gate. She brushed past its roses and stumbled in her weariness. Sylune 
drifted with silent grace at her shoulder.
The door ahead of them was open, and the lamps were lit. Storm sighed and 
reached for her blade again, wondering if she really felt up to another fight 
against some sinister Zhent intruder then relaxed with a heavy sigh of relief 
when she saw the short and familiar figure of Lhaeo come out to greet them.
"Tea is made, Ladies," Elminster's scribe said in a small, forlorn voice.
"Oh, Lhaeo," Storm said, touched, and held out her arms to him.
A moment later, the last prince of Tethyr was weeping into her breast, clutching 
her as if she were his last anchor in a storm-racked sea. "El told me I'd know 
if he died," he gasped when he could speak again, "and yet I don't know! The 
touch of his mind is gone!" He burst into fresh tears, weeping uncontrollably.
Storm stood in the moonlight, holding him in silence. There was nothing she 
could say. Her silver hair bent over him as her own tears began to fall. They 
wept together, and the ghostly form of Sylune hovered over them both, her 
spectral hands reaching out to console in vain.
There was nothing at all she could do.
There's Always Revenge
It was a bright morning in fair Shadowdale. The tower, the inn, and the streets 
were still buzzing with talk of the disappearance, a day and a night ago, of 
Adon and Midnight, the two prisoners convicted of the murder of Elminster of 
Shadowdale. Some said they'd been spirited away by agents of Zhentil Keep, 
lurking in the dale even now; others that they were archmages, foul fiends, or 
Bane and Manshoon themselves, who wore false shapes and escaped by magic as soon 
as they were bound in the dungeons. Shadowdale had lost its greatest protector, 
a wise old unclealbeit a cantankerous and mischievous uncleto just about 
everyone who'd lived in Shadowdale.
Nor was he the only man mourned in the dale. Many a family wept over sons or 
fathers who would come back only on a shield, to be buried by an honor guard led 
by the grim-faced lord of Shadowdale. No one could spare the time for full 
mourning rites or long nights of grieving, however; there was too much that had 
to be done.
Magic still spun wild in Faerun, and news of strife and god-caused devastation 
came to Shadowdale with every new, heavily armed caravan. The Zhentarim could 
strike again at any time, and Daggerdale was an open battlefield roamed by 
hungry wolves, ores, and worse. To keep such perils at bay, the few warriors 
still able to fight were standing guard on all four roads out of the dale, 
fervently hoping not to see blackhelms in the distance.
In the dale, dead Zhents and horses lay everywhere, some half devoured by bold 
night scavengers. The returned priests of Lathander were busily blessing the 
dead to ensure that they would not rise undead to stalk Shadowdale in the years 
to come. The old women of the dale were stripping the bodies of anything that 
could be used again, and the foresters surveyed the burnt woods with an eye to 
replanting.
Yestereve, six full carts piled high with weapons and helms had groaned up the 
road to the tower. The clangor of their being stockpiled had gone on all night, 
wherefore this morning Lord Mourngrym had a headache that felt as if someone 
were repeatedly stabbing a dagger through the top of his head.
"Why must I get up?" he asked Shaerl. "I'm lord of this dale. Can't I lie abed 
just once in a year?"
"You did," she replied sweetly, "three months back. We were trying for a 
daughter, remember?"
Mourngrym growled something wordless about her cheerfulness and rolled up to a 
sitting position on the edge of their bed. His arms and ribs were gold and 
purple with bruises, and two raw scars marked his forearm where Zhent blades had 
split through his best armor.
Shaerl hissed in sympathy as she traced one of those scars with a slim finger. 
She handed her lord a tankard of steaming bitterroot tea.
Mourngrym sipped it, made the same disgusted face he always did, and rose, 
handing the tankard back to her. "Hereyou drink the stuff. It should cure your 
confounded cheerfulness!"
He took from its peg the silken robe she'd made for him. As always, he admired 
the blazons she'd sewn so carefully. The arms of the dale shone on one breast, 
his own arms on the other, and a target prominently on the backtheir private 
joke: he'd been her target when
Cormyr sent her to Shadowdale to gain influence here.
Mourngrym smiled at the robe in his arms, leaned against the smooth-carved 
corner post of the bed, and mouthed a silent prayer to Tymora. Swinging the robe 
around his shoulders, he made his way across the bedchamber.
He winced as each step made his head poundhe hadn't had that much to drink last 
night, surelybut doggedly pursued his goal: the curtained archway that led into 
the morning room. There he would break his fast on the great table whose glass 
top covered gloriously hued maps of the dales. He loved those maps, a wedding 
gift from the Rowanmantles, and peering at their exquisite details never failed 
to cheer him.
He shouldered through the curtains, sniffing the welcome aroma of sausages and 
melted cheese and eggs on bread, and froze midstride.
"Storm! Well met and welcome, but what are you doing sitting in the middle of 
the table?Oh, war council time again, is it?"
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled at him and tossed her head in greeting; her silver 
hair cascaded down one shoulder, and Mourngrym swallowed at her beauty, 
remembering the last time she'd sat on the table, wearing rather less, and the 
wild war council that had followed then. It was too early in the morning for all 
this
Eyeing the sausages on the platter beside Storm's boots, the lord of Shadowdale 
went to the long sideboard, took up a flask of firewine, and drained it at a 
single gulp.
When his eyes came back into focus, Storm was shaking her head. "You'll regret 
that, you know."
"My head already feels like a blacksmith's anvil," Mourngrym told her. "Is there 
any more of this stuff about, do you know?"
"End drawer down the window end," Storm and Shaerl said together, then broke 
into chuckles (Storm) and giggles (Shaerl) of mirth. Mourngrym gave them both a 
look of long-suffering disgust and went to the drawer indicated.
"It's too much," he told the Realms at large. "No man should have to deal with 
such cheery females. Haven't either of you heard of respectful silence?"
There was no reply. Mourngrym had taken the decanter back to the table, sipped 
from it without bothering with a flagon, and lifted his fork to deal with the 
sausages before the silence registered. He looked upinto Storm's impish eyes, 
dancing with mirth as she regarded him, lips pressed tightly together. He shot a 
look along the table to Shaerl, who had seated herself with dignity and was 
regarding him, chin on hand, in equally amused silence.
Mourngrym opened his mouth to say something, but closed it again and shrugged. 
"That's certainly more peaceful," he told the first sausage as he raised it.
"Unhand that sausage!" a voice bellowed from somewhere very near.
Mourngrym choked, tried to spring up, arms flailing, and toppled sideways, 
gabbling for breath.
He and the chair met the flagstone floor with a solid, head-ringing crash amid 
an explosion of laughter. Mourngrym found himself then face to face with Rathan 
Thentraver.
The stout priest was crawling out from under the table. He winked, deftly 
plucked the sausage off Mourngrym's fork, bit into it, and said, "Umm. Very 
good! Thank you for offering me this excellent viand!"
"I am going to kill someone," Mourngrym announced calmly to the ceiling, "and 
probably soon. How long have you been under here?"
"Not long," Rathan rumbled cheerfully. He emerged. "How long do you plan to 
sleep in every morning? Not turning into a vampire, are you?"
"No," Mourngrym told him shortly, and rolled to his feet. "No fangs to you."
"Ah," Storm said, "that's better. I was afraid you were going to play the grim 
stone-headed tyrant all day." As she spoke, the wall gong chimed.
Mourngrym looked at it sourly and sat down again. "And what does that signify?"
""Tis the signal that you've finished your morning feast, my lord," Shaerl said 
sweetly, "and that yet another Realms-shaking war council is about to begin."
"But I haven't fin" Mourngrym began. He snatched his platter to his chest just 
before Storm plucked it away. He brandished his fork at her. "Keep back, woman!"
There was laughter from the doorway. Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers stood 
there, staring delightedly into the room. "Now that's a sight worth walking here 
from Berdusk to see! We battle the Bard of Shadowdale with blades but great 
lords use sausage forks on her!"
Mourngrym sighed, backed away to the sideboard, and set his plate down. Picking 
up a sausage, he pointed at the chairs ranged around the table and said, Tray 
enter, Lords, Ladies, and Gentles, and be seated. There, there, and there ah, 
and I believe that seat's available too very good." He glanced at the 
gathering: Knights, Storm, a swirling radiance by her shoulder that must be 
Sylune, the two Harper rangers, Shaerl, andwho was missing?
Elminster, of course, and Lhaeo not surprising. He bit into the sausage 
thoughtfully. Ah!
"This room's too quiet by far," he announced grandly. "Where's Term?"
"I thought you'd never ask," the smooth voice of the thief replied from the 
doorway. "While you've been snoring, I've been working. Pretty soft being lord 
of a dale, isn't it?"
"You?" Mourngrym snorted, making a rude gesture with what was left of his 
sausage. "Working?"
"Indeed," Torm replied with dignity, "I have just returned from a dawn foraya 
bold and brazen foray, let me say, fraught with peril and shining braveryinto 
the road camp just south of Voonlar, looking for certain things our departed 
Zhentish friends may have left behind!"
"More women?" Merith asked slyly. "Torm, how many can one man have?"
"The answer, Sir Elf, would surprise you," Torm said loftily, "but that is a 
matter for converse at some more relaxed time. I speak of the Central Blade's 
pack train sixteen wagons of it, at any rate."
"Thieving still?" Shaerl sighed. "Torm, in case you haven't noticed, there's a 
war on! Must you indulge in petty thievery?"
Term's eyebrows rose. " 'Petty thievery,' Lady? You wound me to the quick! What 
did you think your surviving troops would eat? And be paid with? Starving men"a 
dagger spun from his hand to transfix one of Mourngrym's sausages, and the thief 
jerked on the silken cord affixed to the hilt and snatched the food away from 
Mourngrym's hasty grab"who feel they've been cheated tend to make unsafe 
guardians, particularly when they're also well-trained warriors."
"Belt up, well-trained warrior," Florin suggested kindly as Torm reeled in a 
dusty sausage and bit into it with satisfaction. The ranger looked around the 
table to address them. "We're here to talk some things out and decide how best 
to proceed, given the perils abroad in the land and our lack of Elminster." In 
the silence that followed, he added, "In the absence of the Old Mage, Sylune is 
the eldest here, and should speak first."
"My thanks, FlorinI think," the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale said dryly. "For my 
part, I have unfinished business Elminster set me to. Sister, will you hand my 
stone to Itharr of the Harpers? He is the only one of our Rangers Three who 
hasn't borne me yet."
"I will," Storm said gravely, drawing the chain from her neck and rising to 
carry the stone around the table.
"The Rangers Three? Sounds like a chartered adventuring band," Torm commented. 
Itharr took the stone carefully, a little awed. The thief added, "Or a traveling 
minstrel show."
Torm, dearest," Sharantyr said sweetly, "Tell me: do these idiocies just tumble 
out whenever you open your mouthor do you actually sit there and think them 
up?"
"Thinking?" Torm frowned at her. "Who said anything about thinking? Kill first, 
then loot and the thinking part is that unpleasant shouting business at the end 
when it all has to be divided. It makes brains hurt."
"Mine certainly does," Mourngrym said with feeling, "but I believe Sylune still 
has the high tongue in this round of converse."
"For my part," Sylune responded, "there is no more to say. I am a thing of 
ghosts and shadows. My will is bound to duty."
Tes, but what would you like to do?"
"Find my sister the Simbul and beseech her to do as Elminster did," the Witch of 
Shadowdale said very quietly. "That is, make me a new body."
There was an embarrassed silence at the raw longing in her voice. Florin stepped 
into it by saying, "Next senior among us is my lady, Dove. What say you?"
Dove smiled at him and looked around the table. "My first dutyour first 
dutymust be to defend the folk of the Dales against brigands, Zhents, roving 
monsters, and the like. Otherwise, there'll be no crops, and starvation come 
winter. Time of Troubles or no, the work of daily life must go on. We have to 
find all the Zhents scrambling around the woods and deal with them, discover who 
or what else is lurking about to prey on our people, find and tend all the 
wounded, and rebuild what was ruined in the fighting."
"Well, that takes care of the council," Torm said lightly. "Let's be getting on 
with it. Mourngrym can make us all more sausagesI'm certainly hungry enoughand 
we can meet again when the snows fall."
"Rathan? Gag him, will you?" Illistyl snapped scornfully. "To think that I once 
bedded thatr
"Once? From what I recall, twi"
"Enough, Torm," Dove said firmly, "or have you forgotten the fish bucket?"
"The fish bucket?" Mourngrym asked, leaning forward with interest. "Is this some 
sort of torture device fine upstanding noble lords can use on annoying thieves?"
"After he made a particularly crude remark," Jhessail explained, "Dove held 
Torm's head under water in the bucket of live fish she was bringing to the tower 
for evenfeast until he ran out of bubbles."
"Ah, that explains what happened to his wits," Merith said delightedly. "They 
got soaked through and grew mildew"
"Gods in their palaces," Belkram said to Itharr in low tones, "are all their 
council meetings like this?"
"Oh, no, no," Storm assured him cheerfully. "Best manners this morn because of 
you. Usually we just shout Torm down and get on, and no one speaks in turn."
"Strange you should mention that," Florin said with a smile, "as seniority 
brings us now to you."
"Aye, indeed," Storm said with a smile. "I concur with my sister Dove, but be 
aware that aside from Shar, Sylune, and my two Harpers here"Belkram and Itharr 
smiled around the table and swept mock bows"this assembly is just going to have 
to abandon chasing Malaugrym for the time being."
"Malaugrym?"
"The shapeshifters who attacked us in the tent, the night before the battle in 
Mistledale," Sharantyr explained.
"Those weren't doppelgangers?"
"No, something far worse."
"Oh  one of Mourngrym's speeches?"
"Stow it," Florin ordered with a grin and a sigh.
"Because some among us can't resist the urges to be clever, these little 
get-togethers are always so much fun."
"Hold hard," Shaerl said, leaning over the table with a frown. "Do I hear you 
rightly? Chasing Malaugrym? Are there a band of them?"
"A family, actually," Storm explained softly. "An ancient clan who kill those 
who know about themso guard your lips. For centuries Elminster has slain any of 
them who dared to enter the Realms."
"So with him gone"
"Chasing may no longer be necessary. They'll probably find us soon enough," 
Sharantyr observed.
"Is there any wayshort of magic that may go wild, and blow this tower apart, or 
cover us all in cow dungof knowing they're not here in this room, right now, 
taking the shape of one of us?" Torm asked sharply.
"No," Storm and Dove said in quiet unison.
"Well," Rathan joked, "You did come in late, Torm"
"Oh, no, you don't," Torm said warningly. "No one's opening me up to see if I'm 
really a scaly monster!" There was suddenly a dagger in his fingertips, and he 
waved it meaningfully.
"You're safe, Torm," Jhessail said with a smile. "No one could impersonate that 
debonair manner, that outrageous tongue, that"
"Utter stupidity," fllistyl told the ceiling.
"As to the internal defense of the dale, and helping our folk set things to 
rights," Storm added, "journeyman Harpers will shortly gather in Shadowdale from 
all directions. To prevent the Zhents and others from sneaking agents in among 
them, they all will report to Dove, who will cast a spell that marks them with a 
visible badge, a spell that contains nasty surprises for anyone trying to 
duplicate it. To get such a badge, of course, the Harpers will submit to 
mind-reading magic, allowing us to weed out ambitious Malaugrym."
"So this band of confirmed Harpers helps rebuild the dale," Torm said, "freeing 
us to dowhat?"
"Ride patrol through the Elven Court woods, southeastern Daggerdale, and the 
other lands around Shadow-dale, scouring it of brigands and monsters, giving us 
warning of attack from Zhentil Keep, Daggerdale, or Hillsfar. I've heard rumors 
of fell beasts leaving the ruins of Myth Drannor to roam the woods, and even 
talk of some wealthy merchants in Sembia hiring small armies in hopes of seizing 
a dale or two as private estates."
"What?" Torm laughed. "Armies, yes but ambitious Sembian merchants? Show me the 
fool who'd dare challenge the famous Knights of Myth Drannor!"
"Look in yon mirror," Jhessail advised him in dry tones, pointing across the 
morning room. "You challenge us all too often."
"Vile slander!" Torm said severely, waving a finger at her. "May the gods look 
down and"
"Gift thee with an egg, valiant Torm," Shaerl said. She swept a peppered plover 
egg up from Mourngrym's plate and thrust it whole into Torm's mouth.
"NnnmumpA," he protested.
"I agree completely," Rathan replied earnestly, patting the thief's hand (the 
one without the dagger). "Thy every word is as a pearl of wisdom, glistening 
among the dull pebbles of other oratory!"
"Oh, please" Illistyl said. "You're as bad as he is!"
Rathan gave her a hard look. "I prefer to say "as good as,' young miss'tis more 
charitable, far."
"If the free entertainment could subside for a moment," Merith said patiently, 
"perhaps we can hear the rest of Storm's plans."
Storm grinned at him. "We'll send two patrols equipped for long forays. The 
Knights will ride to Daggerdale; the Rangers Three with Sylune will circle 
Voonlar, the woods near Myth Drannor, and Mistledale. Both bands should make 
sure the Zhents haven't rallied anyone else in the south and deal with any 
trouble before it reaches our battle-riven dale. The dalefolk are too exhausted 
to deal with even sneak thieves."
"Fine, sounds sensible. Let's be doing it," Illisty! said, rising from the 
table. "I weary of talk. Merith, have you found me a horse?"
"What's wrong with your palfrey?" Mourngrym asked.
"Killed in the battle," Storm informed him curtly. Illistyl nodded, her eyes 
bright with sudden tears, but said nothing.
Across the table, Torm was in full flight again, leaning around Belkram to smile 
at Sharantyr.
"Good, my lady," the thief said with a leer, his eyes bright, "I could see my 
way clear to ably guard so beautiful a flower of the dale! Wouldst thou permit 
me to accompany thee on patrol?"
Sharantyr almost smiled. "I've grown used to Belkram and Itharr, thanks," she 
said crisply, taking the arms of the two Harper rangers seated on either side of 
her.
"I did not mean merely myself, Lady," Torm said, his manner suddenly serious. 
"Three blades and a disembodied voice isn't enough battle might for what you 
might well run into."
"Ill be going with them, Torm," Storm said quietly.
Heads turned in surprise all around the table, but the Bard of Shadowdale was 
looking at the three rangers. "If you'll have me?" she asked quietly.
"Right gladly, Lady," Belkram said, glancing quickly at his companions for 
confirmation, and receiving it.
A frown had come onto Mourngrym's face, "Torm may have a point about strength of 
arms. I was thinking of sending you Knights out on the first patrol east; 
there's word of a Zhent mageling rallying forty or more Zhen-tilar in the 
woods."
"I'll look forward to meeting them," Storm said in silken tones. More than one 
person around that council table shivered at the sound of the bard's voice.
"Are we agreed?" Mourngrym asked, standing up and looking down the table. There 
was a general affirmative chorus, and he said briskly, "Goodnow get gone, all 
of you, so I can bathe and get dressed and have some fooxi that clever Knights 
don't snatch off my plate!"
Chuckles and mocking salutes answered him.
Mourngrym made for his bedchamber, shook his head, and reflectednot for the 
first timehow untenable a position he held, the junior member of a band of 
adventurers who handed him the lordship of a dale after they were finished with 
it, but stayed around to drive him witless!
Growling faintly at the thought, he pushed back through the curtains, Shaerl in 
his wake.
The morning room cleared quickly. When it was quite empty, something moved under 
the tablesomething that looked like old and dark wood, but flowed downward to 
the floor, peeling itself free of the table's underside. It stretched like a 
hungry snake, slithered out from under the furniture, and rose swiftly, taking 
on the shape and appearance of one of the tower servants.
The Malaugrym glanced quickly around, but no one was in sight. The servant who 
was not a servant paused for a long moment to survey the table admiringly. 
Ahorga had always liked maps.
Elven Court woods, Flamerule
The embers crackled and glowed ruby red. The two women sat with their backs to 
it, facing outward on watch, listening to the faint scuttlings and hootings that 
mark any forest by night. They were in the Elven Court woods, well south of 
Voonlar, most of the way through their first night on patrol.
Itharr and Belkram had turned over watch duties to them not long ago, and were 
well and truly asleep, snoring faintly into their cloaks.
"How many nights have you spent thus?" Sharantyr asked quietly.
Behind her, Storm laughed softly. "Hundreds."
The ghostly tresses of Sylune turned, from where her disembodied head floated at 
Sharantyr's shoulder. "Thousands, Sister," she corrected.
"That's rightemphasize how old we are," Storm said, amused. "I try not to make 
people feel uncomfortable or lessened in any way."
"I was the Witch of Shadowdale, remember? Making people wary of me was the best 
way to hold power over them without ever harming anyone," Sylune replied.
Sharantyr sighed. "You seem so carefree," she said, shifting the naked long 
sword that lay across her thighs so that moonlight caught it at one end, and a 
faint red glow from the fire touched the other. She flicked it idly, watching 
the play of light on the steel. "Is it because you've both seen it all before?"
"Partly, Shar," Storm replied, "and partly because we've learned to try to enjoy 
everything, from being whipped in chains as a slave to being wooed by 
well-endowed princes."
"To clinging to the spar of a ship breaking apart in a storm," Sylune put in, 
sounding amused. "To lying paralyzed under the probes of a drow mage trying to 
determine if your powers lie in organs he can remove, or if you'll have to be 
bred to drow to give them your abilities."
Sharantyr shivered. "Don't speak of drow, please"
"My apologies, Shar," the ghostly head beside her said quickly. "We both spoke 
of moments from our own experiencesI forgot that you'd been a captive of the 
drow, too."
Sharantyr turned her head. "You were a slave?"
"For years," the Bard of Shadowdale told her. "Not entirely bad years, either 
though I never did develop any enjoyment for being whipped."
"What do you mean, 'not entirely bad years'?" Shar asked incredulously. "How can 
you enjoy anything about being a slave?"
"That's what we were trying to say, you see," Sylune said softly. "It's not what 
the gods hand you in life that matters so much, nor what your strivings achieve 
or fail in the attempt. Whatever befalls, the best way to view life is to savor 
every moment of it, no matter how sordid or unpleasant for one thing, the gods 
give us all only a certain span of time, and time wastedin misery, despair, 
drunkenness, or casual inattentionis time gone forever."
"I see what you're saying," Sharantyr said slowly, "but you'll forgive me if I 
take some time getting to enjoy fighting in great battles, or falling into 
cesspits, or listening to Torm."
Trying not to laugh aloud, Storm shook with deep, bubbling laughter for a long 
time before she found breath enough to speak again. "Well said," were her first 
words. "Do you feel like talking about what befell in the Castle of Shadows?"
Shar chuckled helplessly. "I-I suppose so. What do you want to know?"
"Do you recall Elminster's burning the bodies of the Malaugrym you slew, back at 
the ruined manor in Daggerdale?" Sylune asked.
Shar nodded, but realized they couldn't see the gesture in the dark, and said 
cautiously, "Yes."
"He wasn't simply being tidy," the ghostly figure told her. "He was using a 
spell that destroys the bodies of the recently dead even as it yields up their 
last few moments of thought. In one of the Malaugrym was a strong desire to slay 
youbecause another Malaugrym, who did not enter Faerun at the time, wanted you 
as his mate. Another of the dead Malaugrym was reluctant to attack you for the 
same reason; the Malaugrym who favored you was his ally."
Sharantyr drew a deep, shuddering breath. "I see. You're wondering if I pine 
after some Malaugrym lord, or perhaps even carry a little shapeshifter-to-be 
within."
"No," Storm said sharply. "Even if either or both of those conditions were true, 
they are your affairs. We merely meant that it's apparent to us all that some 
adventures befell all three of you that went beyond 'See Malaugrym, slay 
Malaugrym, run run run/"
Shar giggled. "That sounds elegant."
"Indeed," Sylune agreed dryly. "So give, Lady Shar-antyr. What did you learn in 
the Castle of Shadows? And I don't mean about Malaugrym, or shapeshifting, or 
the nature of ever-shifting Shadowhome. I mean about yourself."
"About myself?"
"About Belkram and Itharr, then," Storm said gently. "How are my two 
half-trained Harpers?"
"Very good companions and able protectors. Belkram has a touch of Torm in him, I 
think."
Shar heard Storm's silent amusement at that observation, and went on, "Itharr is 
quieter, and there's a darkness in him. H-He needs to kill, sometimes."
"And how would you look upon spending several years adventuring with them both?" 
the lady bard asked. "Just the three of you, not a part of the Harpers or part 
of the Knights of Myth Drannor."
"I'd enjoy it, I hope," Shar replied, then added quickly, "but I fear the 
Shadowmasters will soon strike back, and"
"And?" Sylune asked quietly.
"And I'll lose one or both of them," Sharantyr said. Her voice sank almost to a 
whisper.
"You are fond of them both, then?" Storm asked quietly.
"Aye, I" Sharantyr's voice sharpened. "Why are you asking me this? Do you want 
me to shout from the tower turrets that I love them?"
"No, Shar," Sylune said softly. "We want you to admit it to yourself."
In the little silence that followed, Belkram snorted softly in his sleep, and at 
the comical sound something inside Sharantyr suddenly rose into her throat, and 
she wept as quietly as she could.
The radiance of Sylune was suddenly all around her, and she felt a gentle, chill 
touch on her forehead. The ghostly kiss left a tingling behind, and her somehow 
calmer.
She sniffed away the last of her tears, and said in a small voice, "I'm so 
afraid of losing them."
That's why I came along," Storm said softly, "to lend one more sword to the fray 
and make all of your chances for survival that much better."
"Malaugrym are everywhere!" Sylune intoned in tones of mock horror.
"Don't say that!" Sharantyr told her fiercely, turning her head to stare into 
eyes that were two serene white wraith fires.
"Why not? Face your fears as you should face everything else in lifeopenly. 
Name them, and they become things you can handle, after a fashion."
Sharantyr laughed, a little ruefully. "I didn't expect to spend my time staring 
into the night talking about my loves and fears," she told the two age-old 
sisters.
"Why not, Shar? What could we possibly talk aboutin all our livesthat's more 
important than what we love and fear?"
Sembia, Flamerule
"I love to smell their fear," the man with the head of a panther said, raising 
bloody jaws from a villager who would never again flee screaming from anything.
"Now how could I tell that?" replied the man whose arms split into tentacles. A 
choking merchant struggled in the coils of two of those tentacles.
The Malaugrym shook the merchant, much as a hunting cat shakes a rat in its 
jaws, and tightened his tentacles with lazy strength, tearing the man's head 
off. Blood sprayed in all directions as the corpse convulsed, wriggling in its 
final agony.
"Well? Are you going to eat this one?" Bralatar asked, his hands lengthening 
into talons to tear the man's body apart. He licked his lips in anticipation of 
the feast.
Lorgyn took one bite, then tossed the headless body aside. "No. I'll find 
something a little more succulent," He looked across the night-shrouded garden 
where they stood, at a building whose distinctive red lanterns marked it as a 
brothel. "In there."
"No wonder old Elminster wanted Faerun for himself!" Bralatar said, watching his 
comrade reach up with a small forest of tentacles and swarm up the side of the 
building. "It's a neverending love-feast and brawl!"
"Aye," Lorgyn called down, heedless of whose attention they might alert, "only 
better!"
A man's head suddenly appeared out of one window. "Hoy!" he snarled, 
"what'redoppelgangers! Call the Watc*
A tentacle descended in a slap that carried the weight of falling stone, 
breaking the man's neck as a child snaps a twig. He fell onto the sill, and said 
no more.
The Malaugrym's tentacles were busy at a higher window. He reached in to a bed 
where a fat merchant was rolling among slippery silk sheets, pretending he 
couldn't find the giggling owner of the bed, wriggling around beneath them.
"Not here!" the merchant hollered, clutching at a pillow. "Where's she gone? Oh, 
sweet merciful gods, help me my partner'll be furious when he learns how much I 
spent for an hour of pleasure, and then couldn't find the wench for the size and 
opulence of her bed! Are there other men lost under here, I wonder? That wagon 
of mine that went missing last moon, perhaps? I'll just have to see! May"
"Oh, be silentr Lorgyn snarled in exasperation, snapping out a tentacle to wrap 
around the man's jaws.
The fat merchant suddenly grew a mouth as wide as a horse and caught the 
tentacle; an extra mouth appeared in his forehead and hissed, "Get your own 
plaything!"
Lorgyn recoiled in amazement. "Who?"
The grotesque mouth spat the tentacle back at Lorgyn and shrank away to 
nothingness, dwindling into features the Malaugrym at the window recognized. 
"Lunquar!"
"The same," the older Shadowmaster replied, ignoring the sudden terrified scream 
from the bedclothes beneath him. He pinned the woman down without sparing her a 
glance, and said, "I've been watching you two break necks and hurl bodies about 
for days now; why such a bold rampage?"
"Fun, Lunquar, fun!" Lorgyn said exultantly, using one long tentacle to snatch 
up the man whose neck he'd just broken and shake him as a trophy. "See?" There 
was a scream from the window below.
"That's just what I mean," the Shadowmaster on the bed said. "You left that one 
dangling half out of a window! Hear the screaming now!"
"So?"
"So why rouse half of Faerun when a little subtlety could win you thrones?"
"What fun is that?" the voice of Bralatar came floating up to them. "You can 
rule just as well through fear in fact, whenever we've the time to spare, we 
should spread a little more fear!"
"Your style, perhaps; not mine," the older Shadow-master replied. "I'm saving my 
fury for when I meet up with one of Mystra's Chosen!"
"Aye," Lorgyn agreed, his voice menacingly soft. His eyes glowed a sudden 
emerald green in the gloom. "If you want reasons for rampaging, there's always 
revenge."
Whistling, the WizoRd Mef His End
Sembia, Flamemle
Birds called and fluttered in a wood where moss grew green on old, proud trees, 
untouched by a woodsman's axe for three hundred years. A stone wall as high as 
six men kept errant axes out, for the wood was part of a private estate in the 
fair uplands of Sembiaan estate that saw few visitors, and even fewer uninvited 
ones.
Yet one can never be too careful, and trolls may lurk anywhere. So it was that 
the war dogs Warhorn and Bolder wandered the grounds diligently, carrying two 
hundred pounds of taut muscle each behind their spiked war collars. Their jaws 
closed often on squirrels, and they suffered nothing larger than that to 
liveexcept men they knew.
No man they knew smelled quite like the peculiar odor now in Warhorn's nostrils. 
The mighty war dog growled a deep warning to Bolder and advanced cautiously 
toward the smell, questing from side to side like a soldier.
Bolder caught up to him, stiffened, and rubbed his flank alongside Warhorn to 
signify he'd smelled the scent, too. They went forward soundlessly together on 
stiff, alert legs, lips drawn back to bare huge teeth.
The smell grew strong indeed, prickling in their throats. Of a sudden, they 
broke apart and rushed around either side of a great shadowtop tree, a forest 
giant big enough to hide four dogs behind. They went with eyes aflame and jaws 
agape, feet scrabbling on the mossy turfand vanished.
All that the listening birds heard was two wet snapping sounds, then a brief 
thudding, and shortly afterward, a rustling of leaves as something large climbed 
the forest giant.
"Never fear, never fear,
For my smiles are all for thee."
A man in a bloodied apron sang ere he struck the brass gong that hung by the 
door.
"So come away, lady fair, And we will married be!"
He set down the metal basin of meat scraps, wiped his hands on his hips, and 
waitedbut the expected hungry canines did not come.
The man struck the gong again. "Warhorn? Bolder? Gone deaf, have ye?"
The words had just left his lips when the two war dogs raced into view, running 
hard and yet without their usual fluid grace almost as if they weren't used to 
loping. The man stared hard at them for a moment. He crouched down and asked 
merrily, "So what have ye been into, my hearties? Highsummer mushrooms again?"
He leaned forward to pat Warhorn, and barely had time to notice a strange golden 
fire in the old dog's eyes before the tentacles took him. Snakelike they coiled 
up his patting arm and shook him, and he was still struggling for breath to 
shout when they broadened and slapped over his nose and mouth.
His frantic struggles were brief. His slayer rose slowly to an impossible height 
for a dog and held the dangling corpse upright. The other dog cocked its head 
for a moment, surveying the limp body. The canine form began to melt and flow, 
shifting slowly into an exact duplicate of the unfortunate servant.
Delicate tentacles undid the apron and held it out while Bralatar continued 
surveying the dead man critically, noting tiny scars, pimples, and precisely 
where hair grew. He shifted himself to match. He took the apron, careful to knot 
it as the man had worn it, and announced, "Done."
Lorgyn nodded and passed over the man's belt and ring of keys as he sank back 
down into dog shape atop the dead man. His tentacles coiled and squeezed, 
trembling with sudden effort.
When he was done, a bloody, boneless mass was all that was left of the servant. 
Tentacles dragged the gory thing behind the nearest tree and became digging 
claws. Soon all trace of the murder was gone.
Bralatar hummed the tune the man had been singing as he went to a wrought and 
fluted metal gate. One faithful war dog trotted at his heels.
In the small garden beyond, svelte nymphs and winged women of weathered stone 
posed in frozen wan-tonness among fountains and pools and floating lilies and 
Dorgan Sundyl strode through them unseeing, bored to the depths of his being.
His muscles gleamed with oil and the vigor of this morning's workout, and his 
uniform shone back the sun. A bejewelled sword swung at his hip, and his 
movements had a lazy grace as one long-booted foot glided forward, followedas 
alwaysby the other, taking him around a grassy path that he'd walked a thousand 
thousand times before. He would dearly love something to fight.
Dorgan sometimes prayed to the gods to bring an in- truder into the gardena man 
that he could bait a while before engaging him in furious swordplay, and 
subsequently slaying him and presenting him to the master. Even a little man 
would do.
He would have been surprised indeed to learn that the godsthe thoughtful 
godswere finally, this morn, about to grant his wish.
It took three keys before Bralatar found the one that opened the gateand by 
then, the magnificent-looking guard in the garden beyond was suspicious.
"How, now? What ails Areld?" Dorgan mused aloud as he strode toward the gate, 
hand going to sword and eyes flicking watchfully about to be sure that only one 
man stood there, not a concealed band of brigands.
Another thing the dogs were never allowed in the garden! What was old Warhorn 
playing at?
"Areld?" he challenged, sword grating. "What befalls?"
Areld swayed, one hand on the opened gatebut fell, toppling forward into the 
grass without a sound. Dorgan raced to stand over him, blocking passage through 
the gate, looking warily around for an archer or anyone waiting to rush in but 
the woods beyond were empty of all but birds. Warhorn stood, patiently watching 
him.
Dorgan held the sword up between him and the dog, point out, just in case, and 
bent over Areld. "Are you sick, man? D"
Those were the last words he ever spoke. Something slammed into the small of his 
back and drove him into a sprawling fall onto the servant. Arms of flesh curved 
up to envelop his head, smothering him with ruthless efficiency.
Soon after, Dorgan and Areld carried a limp, pulped mass back out into the 
grounds, to the base of a certain tree where the turf was torn as if by a recent 
upheaval. "You should have dug a large pit," Areld said with dark humor. "I'm 
sure we'll be able to fill it if this mage is as suspicious minded as most. 
There'll be beasts and human guards every few paces ahead of us now to keep 
intruders from ever breathing the same air as Lord Magnificent the 
Spell-Hurler."
Retracing their steps, the guard and the servant passed through the garden, 
coming at last to the only way they could see into the castle: a stone door 
carved into the shape of a snarling human face, with two outstretched hands 
beneath it to serve as handles.
"Warded, or I'm a war dog," the man who was not Dorgan muttered. "I don't like 
the look of those hands."
"So we slide past," the one who was not Areld murmured, extending a ribbon-thin 
tentacle to point. "Heresee?"
It took some time to flatten themselves out into creeping things thin enough to 
slip through a tiny gap between the crumbling stone and the old, slowly warping 
doorframe, with its carvings of satyrs and bunches of grapes and flirtatious 
sprites, but they passed through without incident, and without being seen.
They stood in a high, vaulted hall whose open bronze doors showed another, 
loftier hall, with a gallery at its far end, and many doors opening off it here, 
there, and everywhere. To the left, and nearby (by the smell) was the kitchen; 
the location of other features they could only guess at.
Wherefore the two men dwindled hurriedly back into the shapes of the two war 
dogs and padded into the hall with apparent aimlessness, sniffing as they 
roamed. The doors they passed were closed, but a broad, red-carpeted spiral 
stair ascended at the far end of the hall, and up this they wenton the theory 
that most wizards like to look out loftily over the lands around.
Partway up its ascent, the stair paused at a sunny landing, and Bolder slunk 
over to the small forest of ferny plants there. He peered through, uttering a 
short whufto signal Warhorn that he'd found something of interest.
The two Malaugrym had retained their own eyes, far keener than those of a dog, 
and could readily see a small, slender, rather plain stone tower outside.
The tower was ringed by a moat over which tiny lightnings of amethyst hue 
flickered from time to timesome warding magic, no doubt. The moat in turn was 
surrounded by a strip of lawn. Flagstone paths led to the edge of the moat, but 
there was no sign of any drawbridge, and the paths also ran in a great arc in 
both directions, around the tower and out of view, flanking the walls of a 
gigantic building the one in which they stood.
"Rich indeed, this wizard," Bolder growled. "Look: this house goes all the way 
around."
Warhorn growled a wordless reply of exasperation. How long was it going to take 
to find a safe way out of this vast house, into the inner garden with the tower?
Not long at all, as it turned out. A two-headed panther, black and deadly, 
stalked into view on the circular lawn, and a door swung open as if it were 
expected. They saw a man, a goad in his hand, standing in the open door, and the 
great cat moved fluidly toward him.
"Feeding time for everyone," Bolder grunted. They turned away from the window to 
hurry down the stairs.
A little distance along the passage they saw two women carrying bundles of 
linen. The maids frowned at them but did nothing beyond exchanging the question: 
"What are the dogs doing in here, I wonder?"
Wagging their tails, the dogs passed on by, proceeding to a place where a 
momentary shift of a paw into a human hand opened doors that were not locked, 
skirted a strong smell of cat (they heard a questioning growl from the other 
side of a door they left closed), and found their way to the inner garden. No 
one shouted an alarm as the dogs pawed the door open and stepped out onto the 
lawn.
Strong magic tingled around them, and they looked this way and that in some 
haste. The lawn seemed deserted.
A huge, curved stone bench adorned the edge of the moat, and beyond it Bralatar 
saw what he was looking for: the top arc of an old, massive grating in the tower 
wall, moat water lapping into it. A privy chute.
"Come," he said. He headed straight across the lawn. On the edge of the moat he 
shifted shape to grow flippers and tentacles, and heard Lorgyn's snort of alarm 
behind him as the stone bench suddenly shuddered and rose, stretching out 
hammerlike arms. A golem!
By then Bralatar was in the inky water, and too busy to worry about guardians on 
land: what felt like large hungry eels with teeth like daggers were savaging 
him. He grew tentacles, thrust one down an unseen gullet, and expanded, tossing 
bony spines out and through his foe until the water turned a dull red and the 
biting went away. He served another eel with same tactic, and another. By then, 
massive stone arms were crashing down into the water, and Lorgyn was splashing 
frantically to keep clear of their strength.
Bralatar made an eel-thing of himself and wriggled through the grating, ignoring 
a few nips from another unseen moat dweller. The stone chute ahead of him was as 
slimy and noisome as he'd expected, but rose clear of the water straight away. 
He wormed up it hastily, becoming a snakelike ribbon as he went in case the 
wizard was thoroughor crazedenough to have traps partway up a dung chute.
Behind him, Lorgyn splashed around for a breath or two more before he was clear 
of the water. Bralatar spared him no attention, but spiraled steadily up the 
shaft, sending feelers ahead to probe for traps. Somewhere above them, someone 
was cheerfully whistling a very old bawdy tune.
He found nothing, but as his most cautiously questing tentacle rose a trifle up 
out of the privy seat to peer into the dark chamber beyond, a calm, soulless 
female voice said: "Turn back," and a radiance began to grow around the top of 
the shaft. The whistling broke off abruptly.
"Hurry!" Bralatar snapped, placing suckers on the stone around him and heaving 
hard. He catapulted up out of the shaft like some sort of flying squid, and 
thumped to the floor; he'd not yet begun to grow when a second thump heralded 
Lorgyn's arrival.
"Now who can that be?" an annoyed voice came to their ears through the chamber 
door. It sounded very near, and approaching. The mage was almost upon them!
Lorgyn laid a tentacle on Bralatar's shoulder and hissed, "Distract himthose 
two women in the green tapestry room at the brothel; unclad, holding hands, and 
amazed at somehow ending up here"
They shifted shapes with lightning speed, twisting, writhing, and arching like 
maddened thingsand were done, linking their slim fingers together and adopting 
amazed and fearful expressions just as the door opened by itself, and a balding, 
beak-nosed man peered in at them over a leveled wand.
"By the Seven Mysteries, who are you?" he gasped.
"Please, sir," the blonde woman breathed, entreaty in her green eyes, "where are 
we? What place is this?"
The wizard dragged his eyes up from the ivory curves of her bare body, 
swallowed, and blinked.
"You're in my towerthe Tower of Mortoth," he said gruffly. "Er, that's me." He 
took a step into the room. "Perhaps you've heard of me?"
The taller of the two women parted her raven tresses to display a figure fully 
as spectacular as her companion's, and husked, "Nay, Lord but pray, tell us 
about yourself. Pleasing great men is our businessand our pleasure."
And as Mortoth goggled at her in astonishment, two tentacles appeared over the 
shoulder of the blonde maid and shot out with terrifying speed. One grasped the 
wand, twisted, and snatchedand it flew from the stumbling wizard's bruised 
fingers.
"Rivals!" the wizard snarled as he caught his balance. Blue-white bolts of force 
were already streaking from his fingers in a hasty burst of magic missiles.
Those missiles curved home, and he saw the two intruders flinch, but one had 
grown fleshy wings, and the other had dropped into catlike form, and they sprang 
at him before he could do anything else.
The room crashed and spun for Mortoth as heavy bodies slammed into him and 
bowled him over. Suddenly flesh was enveloping him. He struggled, trying to spit 
out something that was probing into his mouth, and failing.
Lorgyn, his eyes like two copper coins, catching the sun, encased the wizard's 
head and hands in folds of flesh, invading his mouth with a firm tentacle to 
keep him from speaking spells, and leaving him only small nose-hole for 
breathing.
"Do you want the portal right here?" he asked.
Bralatar shrugged. "Why not? We know a way into this room, and I don't want to 
risk wandering around among waiting spells and enchanted items and possible 
traps looking for a better place. Get the thing done first."
Lorgyn nodded. "The decision is wise." He held the wizard securely as Mortoth's 
struggles ceased and his body started to tremble.
Bralatar paced out the space he'd need and began the casting, moving slowly and 
carefully, his body half voluptuous maiden and half panther. White, cold fire 
that blazed but did not consume sprang up where he gestured, building into two 
open ringsboth about as far across inside as a man is tall; one horizontal and 
the other verticallinked by a webwork of complex lines and runes.
"Place him," he ordered. Lorgyn spun the helpless wizard deftly to a spot where 
Bralatar bound him about with the same cold fire before Lorgyn released the 
binding of flesh.
Mortoth blinked. He could suddenly see again and + 18G +
opened his mouth to shout a spell, but found himself staring into a pair of 
cold, uncaring eyes for just an instant before his vision vanished abruptly. The 
same white, endless fire that had taken it whirled into his mouth, and all he 
could do was hum
Bralatar stepped back with a satisfied air, surveying the magical gate he'd 
created. The wizard hung spread-eagled and helpless in the upright circle; 
anyone stepping into the other circle, blazing just above the floor, would set 
foot in Shadowhome.
To use the other end to come to Faerun, a rival Shad-owmaster would have to 
stand in exactly the right spot in the Castle of Shadows, and utter the secret 
word Bralatar had bound the casting with. There was a small chance that one of 
the blood of Malaug might be standing near when the gate formedit did not 
become invisible until completebut in the spot he'd chosen, in a place as large 
as the Castle of Shadows, it was unlikely.
Necessary though it was if he and Lorgyn were ever to return home, Bralatar had 
no intention of testing his creation. Each use would drain the wizard of some of 
his life-energy, and they'd need another magic-wielding being to replace him. 
Most mortals could power the passage of only four beings before they died, the 
last life stolen from them to leave behind only shriveled husks.
It was a pity the senior Malaugrym never revealed the locations of the ancient 
gates in Faerun built or discovered by the early blood of Malaug. Worse still, 
neither he nor Lorgyn had the use of a scrying portal to search either 
Shadowhome or Faerun from afar. If there were gates enough and in the right 
places, they could have avoided this entire undertaking and left important, 
bustling little Mortoth of Sembia in peace.
"At least we're putting this wizard to good use, not just slaying him and 
seizing his magic, as Lunquar did to all the Zhents he could find in the 
brothels of Sembia."
Bralatar commented, watching cold fire race up and down Mortoth's motionless 
limbs.
"Lunquar's gathered a lot of magic, don't forget," Lorgyn reminded him.
"Yes, but the risk!"
The Great Foe is dead! What is to stop us ruling over all?"
"So why did Lunquar counsel us to subtlety?"
"It's his way. Lunquar's always been a fierce loner; he refused to work with 
Dhalgrave himself, once. He's as bad as Ahorga."
"The probable difference between them is that to get home, Lunquar's going to 
have to do what we haveor use our gate, at whatever price we setand old Ahorga 
can no doubt travel freely back and forth between Shadowhome and Faerun. He must 
know the old gates and the traps our kin set on them ages ago."
"Are there any gates known to our kin, that we've not trapped?"
Lorgyn shook his lovely blonde head. "Not so far as I know; the doing was 
deliberate and absolute, to prevent the use of all gates known to us by any 
being not familiar with our guard spells."
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule
"And we intend to keep things that way," said Am-dramnar softly, staring through 
his hastily cast scrying portal. He'd only caught this utterance and the last 
few words of something about Ahorga, but it was clear which of the kin were 
involved: they'd found Bralatar and Lorgyn.
It had been sheer chance that he and Argast had passed through the little-used 
Hall of the Eyes to avoid the well-traveled Hathtor's Gallery. The gate had 
appeared right in front of them, lines of white fire draw- ing themselves in the 
air.
Amdramnar was fast with his magic, but he was more used to hurling slaying 
spells in haste than spinning a scrying portal at speed. It had taken some time 
to call up a view of the other end of the unfolding magic.
"So we know of four kin active in Faerun now: Ahorga and Lunquar, operating 
independently, and these two," Argast mused aloud. "Shall we place a slaying 
trap on their gate?"
"I think not," Amdramnar replied. "Given the right spell111 have find it in my 
libramswe can divine the trigger word Bralatar used in the casting. Then it can 
serve us as a route that Ahorga and the other elders don't know about, if we 
have to bring someone into Shadowhome undetected."
"A mate, for example," Argast said softly. "Your lady of the sword."
Amdramnar regarded him, unsmiling. "You seek a lady too, I know. With a world 
open to me, Sharantyr may not be my choice."
If the two Malaugrym who stood beside the scrying portal could have used it to 
look into each other's minds, they would have seen that Amdramnar burned with 
the need to have the mortal Sharantyrand no otherand that Argast had a deeper 
need. His mother had fled the Castle of Shadows long ago and successfully hid, 
somewhere in Faerun, from the seeking magic of the House of Malaug. She was then 
pregnant; Argast son of Halthor must have siblings now. If one could be 
befriended and manipulated, or bred with a new dynasty of Shadowmasters could 
rise to rule the shattered House of Malaug
But it was very much a good thing that scrying portalsand most other magic, 
even wielded by kincouldn't pry at the thoughts of Malaugrym.
"Let us go to your chambers," Argast suggested. "I'll wait without while you 
prepare your spell, and we can return here without delay."
Amdramnar nodded. He passed a hand across the scrying portal; it rippled and was 
gone, leaving the Hall of the Eyes dark and apparently empty.
"I have little liking for hunting mage after mage for their magic," Lorgyn said 
carefully as they stood in the room with the helpless wizard floating between 
them, "but we should take steps to ensure that this one doesn't have an 
apprentice or three who'll find and free him."
"Hahif I know apprentices, more likely they'll slay and rob him, and take away 
all the magic they can." Bralatar replied.
Lorgyn looked thoughtful. "That brings to mind another thing," he said slowly, 
frowning. "There have always been rumors that Malaug left powerful magic hidden 
on Faerun before he came to Shadowhome. It was one of the reasons old Stannar 
grumbled so much about the prohibition on forays into Faerun. If we can find 
it"
Bralatar lifted an eyebrow. "Is that why you ransacked Candlekeep?"
Lorgyn smiled faintly. "You know about that? Aye, but I found nothing there not 
even in the minds of the eldest whitebeards. Are Malaug's writings truly lost, 
or forgottenor are they just hidden in some grasping wizard's tower?"
"Elminster's tower, of course," Bralatar said grimly. His eyes alight with a 
sudden dark fire. "And with El-minster destroyed"
Oat of the Shadotos
Shadows roiled around them, sliding past in an endless murmur of green and gray 
motes, streaming between the massive stone pillars. Each pillar, some of the kin 
whispered, held an unfortunate Malaugrym, entombed alive as part of the cruel 
magics Malaug employed. These traitors thus kept the very foundations of the 
Castle of Shadows from being swept away by shadows.
Argast and Amdramnar both suspected those whispers held truth. There was 
something eerie about the Undercrypt. One felt the scrutiny of an unseen 
presence here. As the Malaugrym stood facing each other in the stream of 
ever-shifting shadows, they could feel it very strongly. Was the watcher all 
that was left of Malaug himself? If it was the First to Walk Shadows, he must be 
truly ancient and he never broke silence or gave any sign that he knew what 
befell his descendants. Other Malaugrym believed the castle itself was sentient, 
that the Undercrypt was where it was most truly awake and aware.
"I am ready," Argast announced calmly, "but I have one question: how much 
greater is the risk to us, traveling to a place neither of us has actually 
been?"
"Oh, but we have," Amdramnar said with a smile. That's the beauty of it. 
Moreover, when we visited, I let fall a focus token there. The risk is 
vanishingly small."
Argast frowned. "You say I have been to this place?"
"Yes. We stood in the sky hurling spells down at the Great Foe and the three 
rangers with him when they were encamped in a ruin, and"
"There? The ruin?"
"It's as good a place as any," Amdramnar said. "Close to places we've viewed, 
but in the wilderlands. We're not likely to be seen arriving, nor be swiftly 
called upon to shift shape or act at being something we're notuntil we choose 
to do so. Let us smell and feel Faerun first."
A faint smile crossed Argast's face. "Good points, all. Let us be going, then. I 
have waited a very long time for this."
"I, too," Amdramnar said, and reached out his hand to touch Argast's shoulder. 
He spoke a single word, there was a momentary falling, spinning sensationand 
they were suddenly standing in the long grass of upland Daggerdale, with the 
ruins of Irythkeep around them.
"See how easy it is?" Amdramnar said, shaking his head. "It seems incredible 
that all of our clan has been kept from this for centuries, for fear of one old 
man!"
A helmed head promptly bobbed into view above a section of crumbling wall, and a 
voice roared, "Enemy mages! Strikestrike to slay, for the greater glory of the 
Dead Dragons!"
The two Malaugrym exchanged startled looks, then ducked away in opposite 
directions as a ball of flame hissed through the air, divided into two smaller 
balls, and chased them.
"By the blood of Malaug, who've we stumbled into this time?" Amdramnar snarled, 
somersaulting over a jagged wall and falling down the steep drop-off beyond with 
a jolt that rattled his very teeth. A moment later, there was a flash and a 
ground-shaking roar. The fireball struck the wall and blew it apart; it promptly 
toppled, burst, and plummeted down on top of him.
The furious Malaugrym grew one long leg and leaptcrazily off-balancefrom under 
a huge pile of rubble that thudded into the turf where he'd lain a moment 
before.
He landed, rolled, and came up facing back where he'd been, in time to see a 
large war bird that must be Argast flap into view, rising sharply. A robed man 
who bore a gleaming staff stood on the edge of the drop-off. As Amdramnar 
hastily backed away, the man discharged the staff, spitting a beam of flame at 
Argast that scorched him all along one flank and startled him into a fall.
Another man took up a dramatic stance, a wand raised in his hand. He peppered 
Argast with magic missiles, sending him down to a hard landing on the rubble 
pile.
Argast got up shrieking in fury, but his Art was feeble. He could do little 
against wizards of power. He fled desperately downhill, changing shape into a 
large, bounding jackrabbit for greater speedand outrunning a web of crimson 
bolts from the staff.
Very soon Amdramnar fetched up beside Argast, his eyes blazing. "Somewhere quiet 
in the wilderlands? By the fist of Malaug, what're the cities like?"
"Someone else must have decided this ruin would be quiet and secluded, tooor 
they wouldn't be so eager to throw away powerful magic on two men they haven't 
even spoken to yet," Amdramnar said calmly. "Let's withdraw."
"There seems little point to it," Argast said grimly, pointing at another swarm 
of bright bolts headed their way: magic missiles, unavoidable and painful. "Who 
are the Dead Dragons, anyway? An adventuring band? Some of the Great Foe's 
apprentices, out for some fun?"
Amdramnar suddenly chuckled. "No, I think they're some sort of cult that were 
always bothering the Great Foe idiots who worship skeletal undead dragons."
Argast gave him a disbelieving look, but gritted his teeth as the swarm of magic 
missiles struck home, hurling them both onto their backs in the grass. "Let's 
move out of sight," he said, sounding sick. That hurt." Keeping low, they 
crawled over a ridge and became two wolves, trotting in a wide circle around the 
ruin.
"Shall we go elsewhere?" Amdramnar asked.
"Revenge first," Argast said in iron tones. "No one should try to slay Malaugrym 
out of hand and get away with it!" They trotted on. "So what does worshiping 
un-dead dragons have to do with hurling spells at everyone you glimpse?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "They seize treasure to offer dragons," he said slowly. 
"Perhaps they thought we were thieves come to take it."
"They walk around heavily laden with killing magic all the timer
"Perhaps the Shadowmasters High were not such fools as we thought to ban entry 
into Faerun," Amdramnar said mildly.
"Bah! Bralatar and Lorgyn still liveand have done well here. If those two 
overconfident lackwits can thrive in Faerun, we certainly can!"
"Talking wolves?" A man's voice said from behind them. "Shapeshifters, more 
likely! "Ware a trap!"
Without bothering to look around, the two Malaugrym broke into a run. The 
fireball, when it came, exploded just above their heads.
Somewhere in the red, roaring inferno of the fireball's fringes, Argast fetched 
up very hard against a boulder and felt many things snap. He saw Amdramnar 
hurtle helplessly past, turning over and over in midair, so racked with pain 
that he was losing wolf form. Tentacles and a misshapen gray mass wobbled and 
thrashed the air just before he landed in a cloud of dust.
"A fireball!" snapped the first voice they'd heard. "They must know we're here! 
Attackr
As the two Malaugrym lay in pain among the smoldering grass, forty or more mages 
and warriors boiled up over a ridge ahead of them and raced past, to the place 
whence the fireball had come. The sounds of battle arose from thereabouts.
When Argast had fought down the pain and shifted shape into something resembling 
a long-limbed crocodile, he moved hastily away. He was just in time. A whirling 
cloud of flashing blades suddenly twinkled into being above the rocks where he'd 
lain, clanging and crashing off stonethen turned into slowly drifting white 
butterflies. Not far away, they heard someone curse all gods and wild magic.
Amdramnar managed to slither to where Argast lay panting. "What befalls?" he 
hissed.
"The dragon idiots were waiting for these others, and thought the fireball cast 
at us was an attack meant for them. They rushed the ambush they were planning 
and are attacking here and now. Who these others are is yet beyond me; you're 
supposed to be the expert on Faerun!"
Amdramnar winced. "Truly said. Let's try to work our way over to the ruins. From 
that higher ground we can look back at the fighting."
"And get attacked by all the dragon worshipers who aren't quite so eager to get 
killed as these here are," Argast said sourly. "I await the experience with 
eager glee."
"Ah, be easy! Magic's starting going wild here anywaysee those blades turn to 
butterflies?"
"I'm not overwhelmed with joy," Argast said coldly, "at the prospect of starting 
my exploration of Faerun as a butterfly! Or as anything else twisted or shackled 
by sorcery, strange as it may seem!"
"I'll admit my idea of coming to Irythkeep has turned out badly," Amdramnar 
replied quietly, "but we've seen a wand and a staff in use already, and magic is 
a large part of what we came here for. Why flee from it now that we know what we 
face? Why, they're busy battling each other!"
As he spoke, lightning cracked into the sky, split apart into three bolts with a 
spectacular crash, and leapt to earth, one striking quite close. Their hair 
rose, and their bodies tingled.
Argast said dryly, "That's why. Have you experienced enough yet? Can we go 
somewhere safer?"
"The ruins," Amdramnar insisted, "where we first appearedif these Cult of the 
Dragon fools were preparing an ambush, they must be camped there. It's the only 
landmark in this stretch of country; the people they're fighting must have been 
planning to camp there, or at least use it to keep on the route they intended, 
and pass close by."
"What shapes do you suggest we take? Fireballs, so we can pass unnoticed, 
perhaps?" The sarcasm in Argast's tone was venomous; it was clear he suspected 
Amdramnar of having deliberately sent him into danger.
"Trust me, Argast," Amdramnar said firmly. "This fray was not of my doing. I've 
been hurt as badly as you. We'll both be spending some time healing. We'll need 
a large blood meal as fuel for it, too."
"What if we bite unknowing into a wizard and trigger nasty contingency spells?" 
Argast said warily. "What then?"
"We're a long way out in the uplands; they probably all came here on horses," 
Amdramnar replied patiently. "Now let's move looking like horses ourselves 
might not be a bad idea. Someone might try to catch a horse, but they're hardly 
likely to waste a fireball killing it!"
"Now you speak wisely," Argast said, beginning the shift into equine form. 
Amdramnar sighed in relief and did likewise. He had begun to fear there was some 
sort of curse afflicting this foray into Faerun.
They trotted in a very wide route, keeping to easy ground and almost out of 
sight of the ruined keep to be sure of avoiding the attention of anyone who 
might have a spell to hurl. They approached the ruins in the lee of a stand of 
trees, and made their hooves soft and pliable to keep as silent as possible. 
When they were near enough to hear voices and see men moving, they began to 
graze, drifting slowly around into view, hoping they'd be taken for mounts 
belonging to the camp.
"We'll take losses now, for sure," someone was grumbling. "How could they have 
seen us from so far off?"
"Mayhap they did not," a deeper voice replied.
"Mages don't waste fireballs on nothing, or throw them across grassland at a 
whim! That's sheer foolishness!"
"I've known some wizards whom the mantle of 'fool' would fit right well," the 
deep voice responded.
"Don't let Chaladar hear you say that! Some of the dragons like to chase and eat 
human warriors who put up a fight, you know!"
"Aye, I do know," the deep voice replied calmly. "Why do you think we asked you 
along?"
"What? How can you bedid Chaladar tell yoh, gods! My horse all unsaddled 
sweet Tymora, aid me now!"
"That's not a very judicious prayer for a faithful follower of the Scaly Way, 
wouldn't you say, Malarnus?"
"Quit baiting the lad, Ornthar you'll have him running into things and 
shrieking in a breath or two! Sit down, Felus! He was merely jesting with you!"
"Now what have you done with your wand, boy?" Ornthar growled. "Dropped it, no 
doubt, while running around like a man who can't find the privy seat and 
babbling to Lady Luck!"
The Malaugrym exchanged a look and moved closer.
"Here it is!"
"That's my wand, idiot!" Malarnus told him. "Where did you walk, Felus, and 
where've you been sitting? Go back to all those places and look for it, 
andthere!" There came a thud and a groan. Malarnus added sarcastically, "See 
how easy it is to find things when you trip over them?"
"Dolt!" Ornthar added helpfully.
Amdramnar took a step nearer and had a sudden idea. He began to shift shape, 
turning into a scorched-looking man, hairless and blackened, clothes hanging in 
tatters. When he was done, he turned to Argast and gestured for him to do the 
same. Argast gave him a doubtful look for a moment, but complied.
Amdramnar gestured to Argast to follow. He staggered around the last few trees 
and right into the camp.
"By the Dragon! Keep back!" a scarred veteran in half armor said, raising a wand 
in one hand and holding a blade in the other. Ornthar, no doubt. Seated on 
either side of him were an anxious youth and a sleek man with a spade beard. 
Felus and Malarnus.
"I-I  help us," Amdramnar gasped, staggering a pace closer. "Fireball"
"Who are you?"
"Followers  we were to meet Chaladar here," Amdramnar husked. "All dead now but 
us"
"Felus," the seated man rapped, "get them some water." Malarnus indeed, by his 
voice. How generous.
Amdramnar staggered right over to the lad as he reached for a saddle skin, and 
Argast followed. Ornthar kept his eyes and his wand trained on them all the 
time. Malaug*s curse on all well-trained warriors, Amdramnar thought, and worked 
magic that called forth fire.
Flames flared up right behind Malarnus, who heard the hiss and crackle, looked 
around with a frown, and jumped up with an oath. "Fire! Magic!" He spun around, 
eyes narrowing. "There's none here but y"
He was, of course, too late. A tentacle whipped lash-like around his throat, 
jerked, and broke his neck. He joined Felus and Ornthar, who'd been distracted 
for one fatal moment by Malarnus's shout. All three lay broken on the ground.
"Take anything that looks magical," Amdramnar said. "We can discard things 
later. We'll ride two of their horses."
"And eat them later, too," Argast agreed, bending to the work of feverishly 
examining the camp.
They found three wands and an old cup and that was all. If this Cult of the 
Dragon band carried heavy magic, it was in use beyond the ridge, where green 
smoke was drifting and the bright flashes of spells could still be seen.
Figures ran toward the ruined keep, now! Three more a dozen, but still small 
distant dots. Time to be gone.
"Come," Amdramnar snapped. He turned toward the nearest horse.
Argast hesitated for a moment, looking as if he was about to refuse and go his 
own way. Then he. peered back at the running men, shrugged, and followed.
Amdramnar frowned, and was not gentle with his horse.
"I'd guess he's taken with some scrying spell and we won't see him until dusk," 
the younger and louder of the two men said.
"Peering at wenches in the brothels of Ordulin, most likely," the older man 
grunted. He ran a finger down the script in a thick and dusty book.
"Turnold!" the third apprentice in the library said sharply. She scowled. "You 
know I don't like to hear talk like that!"
The older man sighed. He replied without bothering to look up from his book, 
"You've got to learn about human nature and the ways of the world sometime, 
Irendue. You must notice how he looks at you."
That's a private matter between the master and myself," was the even sharper 
response, "and no concern of yours!"
"Oh, I'm not concerned," Turnold said easily. "If I were in your place I would 
be, but he's not interested in me."
"For your information, Master Prentice Turnold, he's not interested in me in the 
manner you so crudely allude to, either!"
"Oh? And just when I thought I'd got right the scrying spell the master taught 
me ten years ago! I particularly like the black-and-gold gown, by the way ."
"You worm!" Irendue shrieked, leaping to her feet, her face white to the lips. 
"You utter spying snake!"
"Oh, I was following the master's instructions as was Lareth here. The master 
told us we might learn something"
The door banged furiously as Irendue left, and Lareth, who'd blushed as red as 
his scarlet robe, coughed uneasily. "You shouldn't bait her like that. You know 
she'll just run to the master and there'll be trouble."
"We have to pay for our training," Turnold said calmly, "and pay dearly. She 
pays in another way. I don't mind that; I'd just like her to be honest about it 
and not play the prim and prissy high lady with us."
"Why should she be honest?" Lareth asked, amused. "She's training to be a mage, 
not a hermit priest!"
"I could probably tell you things about hermit priests," Turnold replied calmly, 
turning a page.
"My, you have been busy with that scrying spell," Lareth returned. He held the 
grimoire he'd been frowning at under Turnold's nose and pointed at a notation in 
one margin of a battle spell. "Oparl's hand, do you think?"
Turnold shook his head. "Too spidery. Jamryth's, for a gold lion."
"I'll not wager with you, Turnold," Lareth said ruefully. "You're too often 
right!"
"That has always been my trouble," Turnold agreed calmly, eyes on his own book 
again.
"Thirsty work, this," Lareth said. He set down his book and flipping its spine 
ribbon to mark the page with Jamryth's notes. "I'm for a flagon. Join me?"
"Plenty of time left to get drunk today," Turnold replied. "I'll be along 
later."
"Right," Lareth said with a grin, and swept out.
Only a moment later, he added a scream.
By the time Turnold got out into the passage, wand in hand, Lareth had joined 
Irendueand the master!in a web of cold white fire that seemed to fill the 
privy chamber. Two women he'd never seen beforeno, men wearing the faces of 
wencheswere standing in the passage facing him, with wide and ruthless smiles 
on their faces.
As he swept the wand up, Turnold felt the horrible strength of the tentacles 
that were falling on him from all around the door frame tentacles that trailed 
back along the floor to join up with the men-women's bodies!
The wand was slapped from his hand, but a horrified Turnold scarcely noticed. He 
was trying desperately to scream, but discovering, as tentacles crowded into his 
mouth and slid coldly up his nostrils, that it was much too late
Daggerdale, Flamerule
"I begin to think Lunquar's approach is the right one," Argast said as his 
exhausted horse collapsed under him. "Hide as much as possible. Keep to crow 
shape and the like, take human form only when another shape will win suspicion. 
Lie low and learn."
"Well have to lie low for a bit to heal fully," Amdram-nar grunted. "Kill these 
now and eat?"
"Why not? They're too weak to be of any other use!"
The Malaugrym had ridden across half Daggerdale without a break; Argast's mount 
had collapsed on a steep slope in the rolling hills of the southeastern dale, 
hard by the woods that stretched to Shadowdale.
"I think the most important thing is to hide ourselves from the common folk," 
Amdramnar said slowly. "They seem very swift to call on adventurers when they 
see something amiss, and this world does have crude shapeshifters ."
"Doppelgangers, yes, I remember all the tales about how Malaug must have bedded 
one and thus given us the power."
"It matters little now. I just want to hunt down this Sharantyr woman and the 
two men who came to Shad-owhome with her."
"And kill them, slowly and painfully?"
"The two men, yes. The woman's fate depends on what she agrees to"
Argast shook his head and mouthed the words: then I'll kill her. He was careful 
to turn his head so that Amdramnar had no chance to see his lips.
Then he felt a tentacle brush his leg. He was about to strike it away angrily 
when he saw that Amdramnar was sinking down into the shape of a horse, and lying 
as if dead in the grass and that his lone tentacle was pointing urgently across 
the valley.
Argast crouched down. He had already begun to take horse shape when he saw them: 
a dozen or so men and women in drab leather armor. Dirt-caked weapons hung in 
their hands, and they crept cautiously through the trees. A patrol.
Someone's patrol, Argast made himself as much like the real horse beside him as 
possible and lay still.
It seemed a very long time before a voice said, low-pitched and near, "They're 
still warm this one, at least, still lives. Ridden to death."
"So their riders must be close by hiding from us, no doubt."
"Zhent troops, for a gold lion."
"That's a wager I'll never take, Yheldon. If we find them and they have arrows, 
we'll end up just as dead as the mighty Elminsterand the Zhentsll be picking 
the gold coins out of both our purses!"
Argast twitched in excitement. The Great Foe dead!
It was dark before the two Malaugrym dared move again, coming up to clutch each 
other and hiss excitedly, "Elminster, dead!"
"We must confirm this," Amdramnar muttered. "I've heard tell men have thought 
him dead many times before."
"Of course," Argast agreed, "but if it be true, we can hunt freely!"
"Don't forget that woman back at the keep who turned our kin to mushrooms and 
slaughtered us like cattle! He's not the only one in Faerun we must beware of."
"Aye, but he was the one who watched and waited for us. Moreover, with magic 
gone wild and gods walking Faerun and everything in confusion*
"You're right," Amdramnar acknowledged with a sigh, turning to look east.
"You sound disappointed that he's dead."
"I am, a little. I was dreading having to face him but to strike him down 
myself! The honor of our house demands it! Someone has robbed me of the chance 
to fell the Great Foe." Amdramnar shook his head, and chuckled. "With Elminster 
gone, whatever will the elder kin blame their failures on now, I wonder?"
"They'll find something," Argast said. "They always do. I think skill at finding 
targets for blame is part of the wisdom of being an elder."
Near the Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule
"There's a large party on the road south of the Stone," Sharantyr said. She 
leapt lightly down from the lowest bough of the tree. The others were already 
loosening weapons in sheaths and taking up their gauntlets.
"Did you see lots of armor?" Belkram asked eagerly.
Sharantyr shook her head as she unlooped the reins of her mount. "No, bold 
warrior. I saw horses, men's heads above them, and dust. At least twenty horses, 
and probably more." She vaulted into the saddle and looked to Storm.
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled. "It's always good to have a look at the Stone 
before one rides there. It avoids a lot of surprises."
"Could it be another Zhent army?" Itharr asked as they guided their horses 
cautiously around roots, down mossy banks, and out onto the Hillsfar road.
Storm frowned. "Blackhelms riding openly, no. Some of our people"they knew she 
meant the Harpers"would have brought me word of any such force gathering or on 
the move through Sembia. Zhent agents could well have sponsored some 
hireswordsbut on the other hand, were I an honest merchant in times as troubled 
as these, I'd travel in a large band with plenty of bought blades to defend me, 
too." A faint smile crossed her face, and she added, "So, as usual, we'd best be 
ready for anything."
They rode in wary silence past the ancient Standing Stone, seeing the glitter of 
steel in the forefront of the travelers coming north toward them. It was soon 
evident that the front rank consisted of five hard-eyed mercenaries with ready 
crossbows and full armor. They came on without stopping, loading and leveling 
their bows as they saw the armed rangers.
At the sight of those preparations, Storm said, "Stay well back, all of you. 
With magic unreliable, I can't protect you against crossbow bolts."
Itharr made a small sound of protest, but Sylune's soft voice said, "Heed her. 
Your death can be avoided this time if you act wisely, so why not avoid it?"
In the silence that followed, they watched Storm ride to meet the oncoming band.
"Stand aside, brigand," one of the hireswords ordered shortly.
"Surrender your names and business to me, mercenary," Storm replied calmly, 
unmoving. "Stand aside, I said!"
"Is anyone in this mounted assembly of a more reasonable mind?" Storm asked 
mildly. "Most travelers on these roads are well aware that the Knights of Myth 
Drannor patrol here; if your business is lawful, our encounter may be brief and 
pleasant but an exchange of information is expected."
A crossbow snapped, and a quarrel flew. Belkram growled and made to launch his 
mount forward, sword flashing out.
At his ear, Sylune" said in a voice of iron, "Stand and watch! You may even 
learn"
Storm calmly plucked the crossbow bolt from her breast, examined it critically, 
and held it out, looking at the gaping man who'd fired it. "Yours, I believe?"
"Who are you?" another of the mercenaries snapped, face pale and voice sharp 
with alarm,
"Ah," Storm replied pleasantly, "the words you should have spoken first. I am 
Storm Silverhand, Bard of Shadowdale, and am accompanying a road patrol ordered 
by Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale and the Knights of Myth Drannor to keep peace on 
the roads in these perilous times. Again, I ask you your names and business."
She tossed the crossbow bolt, underhanded, back to the man who'd fired it. He 
juggled it but dropped it to the road, and started to dismount.
"What's the delay here?" a man in rich robes called, urging his mount forward.
A man in a yellow cloak, who rode behind the mercenaries, answered, "Some sort 
of road patrol asking our business."
"Ignore them; we're in a hurry."
"A hurry to go where, goodsir?" Storm asked quietly.
"Ride her down!" the man ordered the mercenaries curtly. Seeing one of his men 
out of his saddle, he shouted, "You heard me! Get up and get on!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries said, "this w"
"I'll hear none of it! Onward!"
"Hireswords," Storm asked quietly, "is this most audible man your master?"
A smile flickered on more than one face along the line of armored warriors 
before one said, "Aye, Lady. Rethuld of Saerloon."
"Thank you, good warrior," Storm said politely. She raised her voice. "Rethuld! 
I would speak with you!"
"But 7," the man spat contemptuously, "would not speak with you! Anyone blocking 
the high road is a brigand, and I slay brigands, not bandy words with them!"
"By the treaty of the Stone in whose shadow we stand," Storm said quietly, "any 
dale lord is empowered to send patrols out on the roadsand all travelers on the 
road are bound to obey such patrols and surrender to their queries and 
examinations."
"That treaty is centuries old! We pay no attention to it in Sembia!"
"Old it may be," Storm replied calmly, "but I was there at its making, and I was 
also present not so long ago as all that, when the young land of Sembia in turn 
signed it to gain trade access to the Moonsea North and grow to its present 
wealth. You would do well to pay continued attention to it if you are a merchant 
of Sembia. Treaties ignored may be revokedand with the roads closed, what are 
the prospects for your wealth then?"
"You said the dales were unprotected," the man in the yellow cloak said to 
Rethuld, frowning. "You said we'd be able to"
"Silence! I am not prepared to discuss our private business dealings on the high 
road! We can speak of this laterif there is to be a later for you, Jasten!"
"I think," Storm said quietly, "this has gone far enough. I've no wish to see 
blood spilled this day, so I think we'll have a little truth here." She made a 
gesture.
Another crossbow bolt hummed past her, but missed, and Storm completed her 
spell. She looked slowly around at the row of mercenaries and the half a dozen 
merchants crowded behind them. There were wagons beyond, with a dozen or more 
additional mercenaries flanking them and presumably a rearguard. "If there's no 
harmful intent in this man's replies, you'll all be free to proceedbut I will 
look unfavorably on men who try to slip past me, or offer violence to me, before 
I am done. That means you, sir, trying to stay unseen in the trees come out 
where I can see you!"
A man shouldered sullenly out through the brush, astonishment on his face and a 
sword in his hand. "Whowhat are you, Lady?" he demanded.
"I am Storm Silverhand. Do you believe nothing in Sembia of the tales of Those 
Who Harp, or of the Seven Sisters? Or do you dismiss them as idle fancies and 
turn back to the hard, grasping work of stacking coins ever higher?"
"Minstrels tell many wild tales of the barbaric back-lands of Faerun," a fat 
merchant snapped from behind the line of mercenaries. "If we believed them all, 
we'd not dare leave our bedchambers for fear of flying dragons and dark elves in 
the streets and Red Wizards behind every tree!"
"Tell me," Storm asked, widening her eyes, "is your bedchamber tastefully 
furnished?"
"What?"
"If, as you say, you spend so much time there"
There were chuckles from the men around, and the fat merchant sputtered in 
anger. "Ikill her!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries replied, not turning to take his eyes off Storm, 
"I don't think that's possible. Not for us. Let's just hear her out, andgods 
willingwe can proceed."
Storm gave him a dazzling smile. "Thank you, good-sir. It is always a pleasure 
to know one is in the presence of patience and good sense."
Then she turned to Rethuld, who sat silent and pale, beads of sweat suddenly 
thick on his forehead, and said gently, "While my spell lasts, you will be able 
to answer direct questions only with the truth. I ask you now: for what purpose 
was this band formed?"
Rethuld licked his lips, and his face contorted for an instant before he said, 
"To gain property in the Dale-lands."
"Why?" Storm asked, "and why now?"
"Sembia grows unsafe without watch spells, thieves and brigands are free to 
loot, kidnap, and slay as they like. I gathered men whose business, like mine, 
can be run from any locale, and we came north to find a better place to bide 
until the strife be over."
"How did you plan to find this 'better place'?"
Rethuld looked around helplessly, sweating, and said, "S-Search, until we came 
upon one to our liking."
"And what sort of place would be to your liking?"
"A stout keep or defensible manor." The words came out of Rethuld reluctantly, 
as if he were fighting hard not to utter them.
"Such places are seldom deserted," Storm said mildly. "I can think of only four 
that stand empty at present, and those are isolated ruins infested by 
monstersextremely primitive and dangerous accommodations. How were you planning 
to take possession of a suitable place?"
"I-I " Rethuld looked trapped, his eyes darting wildly from side to side, his 
lips trembling. When he spoke again, his voice was low and despairing. "Ahseize 
it by force of arms."
There was a sigh of resignation from the men all around, and swords grated out, 
but Storm sat still in her saddle and said calmly, "I thought so. Tell me; was 
the idea your own?"
"Ah, no, Lady," Rethuld said, his voice rising to a sudden, desperate squeal, 
"'twas brought to me by another."
"And the name of?"
Rethuld sobbed suddenly; a blade that seemed to be made of bone protruded from 
his chest. He shook, mouth working, looked down at the bloody point in horror, 
and slumped over. The bone slid out of him from behind.
"I thought so," Storm said calmly, ignoring the blades that were slashing 
through her. "Malaugrym."
The man behind Rethuld suddenly writhed and dwindledand a falcon sprang into 
the air, leaving an empty saddle behind. The bird darted south.
The blades were passing through the B.ard of Shadowdale as if her body was made 
of smoke. She said to the men wielding them, "Submit to the others who patrol 
with me, and you shall have peace," but the fearful hacking continued unabated 
as the stone she wore between her breasts flashed with sudden blue fire. She 
rose from her own saddle and flew after the falcon, still in her own form.
"Gods," Belkram said as they ranged their mounts across the road to meet the 
oncoming mercenaries, "how can she take so many wounds?"
"She wears a gorget that protects her with ironguard magic," Sylune replied. 
"Metal weapons pass through her as if she were as insubstantial as I."
Lightnings blazed out from her, and mercenaries cried out, reeling in the 
shadows and dropping their weapons.
"You heard the Bard of Shadowdale," Sharantyr cried, standing up in her saddle. 
"Turn back to Essem-bra, in peace!"
As they stared at her, the ghostly head of Sylune drifted forward, its pale glow 
reflected back from swords and armor all around. She added briskly, "Bat-tledale 
holds manors in plenty left empty by the Zhents. I'm sure their rightful owners 
would be happy to sell them to you. Those who are adamant in their determination 
to press on will, before this day is put, find themselves sharing a grave with 
me."
That was all the Sembian band needed to see and hear. They wheeled their mounts 
in hasty terror and fled from the ghostly female head that flew toward them 
trailing long, silvery hair. They galloped south as fast as they could, leaving 
their wagons behind.
Belkram laughed aloud. "That was the easiest fight I've ever been in!"
Sylune turned. "Be not so quick to laugh; your work is just beginning."
"It is?"
"These wagons must be taken up the Stone, turned around there, and driven back 
to their owners, wherever they may flee to. I'll fly ahead to Essembra to get us 
enough drovers."
"Flying around like that? They'll flee just like all these hardened warriors 
here did!" Itharr protested.
"Not the Harpers," Sylune replied without turning. "The wagons, gentlesirs," She 
flew away down the road like an arrow shot from a bow.
Belkram sighed. "Why do we always get the sweat work, eh?"
"You're Harpers," Sharantyr reminded him sweetly. "Such unpleasantness provides 
meaning and purpose in your lives." Itharr shot her a grin, and she added, "You 
should be grateful: many folk never find meaning or purpose in their existence."
"Huh," Belkram grunted, climbing up onto the boards of the foremost wagon. "Why 
can't they all come and do this for us, then?"
High Eoenf east at Loco Ryth&yn
The falcon winged frantically southward, trailing feathers in reckless haste as 
no real falcon would dare doand growing new ones as no real falcon could hope 
to do.
Storm followed in its wake. Her fly spell thrust her steadily on through the 
air. She kept low above the trees so she might survive her tumble to the ground 
when the magic failed or went wild, and to make sure the falcon could not veer 
off or descend suddenly without her seeing just where it went.
The falcon's flight was southeast over the forest until Essembra lay on their 
right. Once past the town, it heeled westward, passing south across the road to 
Sem-bia and the outlying farms of Battledale, heading for the distant silver 
ribbon of the fast-flowing Ashaba, where it left the Pool of Yeven. Long before 
it got there, the falcon turned north again, flew a little way, and dived 
suddenly to earth.
Storm hurriedly swerved behind a tree to avoid being seen; as she'd expected, 
the shapeshifter halted its descent to skim along the stone walls of an estate, 
and peered into the trees all around as it went.
The falcon completed its circuit of the walls. Apparently satisfied he was 
alone, the Malaugrym sank down beyond the wall.
Storm hastily flew nearer, working her way through the trees; she wanted to be 
inside the walls too, when her spell ran out. Even if this turned out to be a 
garden of deadly Malaugrym.
Beyond the wall was a cluster of towers, one of the many walled villas that rich 
Sembians and wizards had built for themselves. They were enclosed for safety 
against the monsters and brigands that roamed these lush wilderlands. The road 
past the gate would be one of the long, winding lanes that fed into Rauthauvyr's 
Road just north of Blackfeather Bridge.
She dare not tarry or work her way along the wall to avoid detection; her spell 
would run out in moments. Darting over the wall, Storm found herself over 
deserted gardens and a small ornamental pond. She turned sharply to keep herself 
over dry land, and dived hastily down, righting herself to land feet first. It 
was good she did. She was well above the turf when her magic gave out, and she 
fell precipitously to earth.
"Once more to embrace the soft lips and bruising talons of adventure, friends," 
she murmured to herself, quoting a ballad she had written hundreds of summers 
ago. She got up and dusted herself off
The placid waters of a small garden pool showed her a rather fierce-looking lady 
in leathers, so she stripped off her clothes and sword, bundled them up 
together, and said a soft word over them.
They vanished obedientlyat least that small magic had worked right; now for the 
next one. She checked that she still had the dagger in its sheath under her 
hair, at the back of her gorget band. These days, a lady never knew when she'd 
need a good sharp knife. The gorget itself, stuffed with coins, bore a chased 
design that was elegant enough to accompany the attire she planned. To it, then 

Standing nude above the pool, she worked a magic she'd not used in quite this 
way for years, creating an ornate off-the-shoulder gown that would pass muster 
in the most exclusive circles in Sembia, and elegant high sandals to go with it. 
Her silver hair would do as she bid it, so she gave herself a sleek fall of 
tresses over one shoulder, and an elaborate braid over her brow. 'Twould do, 
indeed.
Taking a last look around to mark the place she'd left her gear, Storm strolled 
languidly across the gardens, eyes missing little despite her relaxed manner. 
She spotted the spatters of fresh blood beside a stone bench in a little bower, 
about where the falcon had landed, and wondered which inhabitant of the 
household was now a broken, unrecognizable boneless thing hastily buried nearby.
The Malaugrym awaited her somewhere inside these walls, all right. Storm 
strolled ahead as if no such peril was near, enjoying the gardens. A winding 
path girt with fragrant flowers took her to two small bridges that hopped from 
islet to islet across the large pond, to a terrace where stone urns stood in 
floral ranks along low, scalloped stone walls. Within those walls she could see 
folk movingliveried servants.
Calmly she strolled up the path, ascending a broad stair to where a grizzled, 
monocled man of graying years and mustache was enjoying a row of flagons, each 
containing a different wine. He stared at her in amazement for only a moment 
before springing to his feet and saying, "Great lady, be welcome in Low Rythryn 
Towers!"
He bowed, offered her his hand, and indicated a vacant chair beside his own. "I 
am Lord Thael Sem-bergelt, once a battle commander of Sembia, but now lord only 
of this house. I am delighted the gods have brought me so noble anddare I 
say?beauteous a guest! Pray, make known to me your name."
"I am Storm Silverhand, called by many the Bard of Shadowdale," Storm replied 
with grave charm, "and I must tender my apologies for arriving uninvited. My 
spell travels brought me here unintentionally."
"No apologies are needed, not at all! In truth, you filled me with delight, 
strolling up through the gardens like that as if you were some hidden nymph come 
to greet me! It seemed this house were showing me one of its treasures!"
"Gallantly said, my lord," Storm said with a twinkle in her eyes. "I fear I've 
upset the calm tenor of your days. You must have few guests."
"We see few welcome guests in these troubled times," the old lord agreed 
gravely, offering her an empty goblet and silently beckoning a servant over. 
"But my house is honored by your presence. I heard you sing once in a tavern in 
Selgaunt, when you danced on a table for a room of weary soldiers. I'll not 
forget that."
Storm inclined her head in thanks. The servant, bearing a silver platter of 
decanters, glided to a stop between them.
"Pray take wine, Lady Storm," the old lord said earnestly, leaning forward in 
his chair. "I dearly hope you can stay for evenfeast, or even grace us for a few 
days. My house is yours."
"I would be delighted to dine with you tonight, my lord," Storm replied, 
watching her host trying to keep his eyes away from where her plunging gown was 
designed to make him look, "and see the morning sun rise with you. But as for 
longer, I cannot say."
"I quite understand," Lord Thael rumbled. He ques-tioningly indicated the array 
of decanters.
"The glowfire, I think," Storm said, and enjoyed watching the gnarled old hands 
unstop and deftly pour.
He placed the goblet gently before her. "You are my fourth guest this even! 
There seems to be much strife on the roads in Battledale just now; we seldom see 
so many travelers this far off the road. You'll meet them at evenfeast."
"We?" Storm asked, raising her glass in salute. "You have a family, Lord Thael?"
"Only a nephew, Oburglan," Lord Thael said gruffly. "You'll meet him, too."
Guessing that the lord's nephew was no family prize, Storm savored the delicate 
bouquet of the glowfire for a moment, exchanged smiles with her host over the 
rim of the glass, and sipped. Yes. She kept her face pleasant and drank the wine 
with apparent relish, trying to ignore the burning sting of the poison as it 
slid down her throat
She'd chosen the drink herself. Thael had poured it, a servant had brought it 
ah, gods above, the Malau-grym could be anyone!
As dusk came, Storm was still grimly trying to decide which of the folk of the 
manor was the shapeshifter. The servants came to call them in to evenfeast in 
the candlelit great hall of Low Rythryn Towers.
The waiting had been pleasant. Lord Thael, obviously enchanted with her, had 
treated Storm with all the courtesy he knew, discussed politics with a keen 
worldly interest, laughed appreciatively at her mimicry of dale lords, and gave 
a shrewd summation of the directionless self-interest that governed Sembia.
Now he escorted her to the best seat at the board, at his right hand. A lady of 
rank, Storm bowed as an equal to him, and endured a daggerlike glare from a thin 
and sour young man. Probably Oburglan, furious at being displaced at table in 
front of guests.
"Well met, gracious lady," said Thael's expressionless seneschal, Burldon 
Hawklan. "Even in this isolated hall, we have heard of the valiant deeds of the 
Bard of Shadowdale, and Those Who Harp at her command."
Storm smiled back at him. "Minstrels tend to over-flower what they sing of," she 
responded gently, "but I thank you for your kind words." Hawklan bowed stiffly 
and took his place at the far end of the table; to Storm's eyes, he was every 
inch a professional soldierone who did not consider himself retired.
The other guests were less impressive. One was a smooth-faced, saturnine trader 
in spices and pelts from Ordulin by the name of Loth Shentle; the second was a 
young and handsome priest of Tymora from Selgaunt, Dathtor Vaeldeir, who 
professed to be very excited at the chaos now reigning over the Realms; and the 
last was a grim and dangerous-looking man, Thorlor Drynn, introduced to her as a 
trade envoy of Hillsfar.
The dinner was excellent, consisting of roasts of just about everything that 
could be roasted, smothered in a variety of gravies and sauces, with spiced 
greens served as garnishes. And wine, of course much wine.
There was poison in her goblet again. Storm took a certain dark amusement in the 
fact that she could go on drinking it all night without ill effects because of 
what Mystra had made her into. She let her eyes wander up and down the table, 
wondering which of the eyes meeting hers belonged to a shapeshifterand how soon 
it would be ere the Malaugrym grew restive and attacked.
The conversation began with talk of trade difficulties in these lawless times, 
and came around to unreliable magic and priests rendered helpless or mad and the 
Fall of the Gods. At that point Thael declared he'd heard enough about gods and 
their doings, and diverted talk to the future of trade in the Moonsea lands and 
the Dales, and the difficulties Zhentil Keep's aggressive nature was causing to 
all traders.
The grim envoy of Hillsfar spoke up. "For my part, my lord, we in Hillsfar are 
resolved to meet force with force. For too long the Zhents have taken advantage 
of the absence of strong nearby opposition to force their will on other folk and 
territories not their ownin fact, to behave little better than the brigands we 
universally detest.
"I do not speak of the times they raise armies and march on one of uswhich, by 
the way, seems to happen at least once a spring, ruining harvestsbut of their 
open attempts to control how and where ore is brought out of Glister, and 
anything at all out of
+ 216 +
Daggerdale. They try to dictate where and when ships may sail the Moonsea, on 
what terms we must all trade in the region and even if we may trade at all with 
their rivals Cormyr and Mulmaster."
"Bullies will always be with us, sirif not one, then another," Loth Shentle 
said smoothly. "The trick is to anticipate their moves and take trade advantage 
of the side effects; a shortage of food here, rising prices of scarce items 
there"
"As a fur dealer, you profit well out of Zhentil Keep's aggression, aye," 
Thorlor Drynn said coldly. "It has kept the prices of furs falsely high these 
ten years or more."
"I deal with the world as it is," Loth Shentle replied easily, "not as others 
might wish it to be."
"Yes, yes," the priest of Tymora said excitedly. "Deal with what the gods hurl 
your way, taking chances whenever you strive for something that is not the most 
obvious or easy!"
"But surely, my lords," Storm said quietly, "one should not accept the world as 
it is. Deal with it, yesbut strive always in one's dealings to get something in 
return, to make the world give a little to nudge it in the direction of one's 
dreams."
Loth Shentle snorted. "I dream of vaults full of coins, Lady Storm," he said 
wryly. "Have you any that you can yield unto me?"
"Dreams are just that: dreams. Warriors must deal with the real world, with all 
its harsh brutalities and cold truths," the seneschal said.
Storm turned to look down the table. "I do not see the gulf between dream and 
reality, Sir Hawklan. We must fight Zhents because they actively pursue their 
dreams. In Shadowdale, we have fought them army to army, not merely poison in 
flagons'*she looked up and down the table, but saw no telling expression in the 
faces turned to her"and daggers in the dark. Seven open battles these past ten 
summers. We should all pay very great attention to dreams."
Thorlor leaned forward. "Well said, Lady. I'd say the lords of Zhentil Keep have 
done quite well in their dreaming. Voonlar is already their vassal town, the 
Citadel of the Raven, which was to belong to us all, is firmly in their grasp, 
and Teshwave and Yulash lie in ruins because of them to say nothing of the harm 
done to the once-proud cities of the Moonsea North, Daggerdale, the Border 
Forest, and west along the trade route to far Waterdeep."
"Aye," their host said gruffly, setting down his heavy flagon. "There's a dream: 
the trade route from here across half Faerun to the Sword Coast. An awesome 
undertaking, however base the motives and bloody the doing. What say you, 
Nephew? You once told me you wanted to see Waterdeep."
"I wonder at what tolls I'll have to pay," Oburglan said sullenly, "if I wait 
for the Black Gauntlet to finish this trade route. I heard there was a Zhent 
takeover in Loudwaterand some dealings in Saerloon, too something about a lady 
sorceress." He looked across the table. "What do you know of this, Lady Stormas 
a sorceress yourself?"
Thael turned a look of reproof on his nephew, brows bristling, but Storm smiled 
across the table at the resentful young man. "I'm hardly a sorceress, Oburglan, 
though I can cast a spell or two. I leave that to my more capable sisters. As to 
what befell in Saerloon, the sorceress who seduced those merchants and turned 
them to stone statues was an agent of Zhentil Keep. Over the years I've never 
found such tactics to have lasting success."
Someone chuckled, well down the table, and Obur-glan's eyes were murderous as he 
raised his flagon to cover his mouth.
"Stone statues do furnish a garden, thoughas Bur-gusk of Selgaunt found," Loth 
Shentle joked.
"Not this garden," Lord Thael rumbled. "I'd be too afraid of the spell wearing 
off and discovering I've got some mad Netherese sorceress at the far end of my 
pondand more: that she's furious and happens to have a spell or two that can 
level mountains! What would I say to her, eh?"
"Care to dance, my lady?" Dathtor suggested. There were roars of mirth.
"How about: my name is and my ransom is forty thousand pieces of gold?" Loth 
Shentle suggested.
"No, rather: my name is and my next of kin are" Thorlor put in.
Lord Thael looked at the only woman at his table, and his chuckles died away. "I 
forget that you have freed folk from stone, Lady Storm. What did you say to 
them?"
Storm looked into her glass, and answered, "I usually told them where they were, 
that I meant no harm, and what year it was. They always wanted to visit the 
privy after that."
That innocent and truthful observation brought a general shout of laughter.
When it started to die Storm added, a twinkle in her eyes, "But if I met the 
Netherese lady you mention, I'd probably say: I've had mornings like you're 
having!"
Everyone hooted, even Oburglan. Storm mused briefly to herself about the effects 
of too much wine on folkit made them laugh, or cry, or rage all too easily. She 
plunged the table into awed silence by adding, "The only memorable Netherese 
mage I did meet was a man, and his body had withered away to almost nothing so 
he tried to take mine."
"Gods," Hawklan mumbled after a very long moment had passed. "How did you 
escape?"
Storm shook her head. "I'm sorry," she said gently, "but that's a trade secret I 
keep as close about as any merchant guards his own. Ask Mystra to tell youit is 
hers to reveal."
Oburglan sputtered. "That's right!" he protested. "Say something like that, then 
turn all mysterious!"
"Oburglan!" Thael rapped out. "You speak to a great lady; do so civilly, or 
leave this board."
His nephew's face flamed, and he brought his goblet crashing down. "Right, 
then" he began, placing both palms on the table to shove himself upright.
"Oburglan," Storm said softly, catching his angry gaze, "please stay. You are 
right to be angry'tis a maddening tactic we old wielders of sorcery use, to 
tell half a story and then fall silent when you want to know all. I would say 
more if I could, and I apologize for mentioning the Netherese at all."
Oburglan stared at her for a moment. He fumbled for his goblet. "How old are 
you, then?" he mumbled, eyes surveying Storm's curves. "I mean" he looked away 
and scratched at the lip of his goblet in some confusion, "I don't see any 
wrinkles."
Down the table, someone sighed, someone else loudly stifled laughter, and Lord 
Thael covered his eyes.
"I apologize for this wild-tongued kin of mine," he rumbled. Tray, forgiveness, 
Lady Storm!"
He turned blazing eyes to Oburglan. "Lad, lad, one never asks a lady her age, 
unless perhaps you're her suitor and must needs know what ground you walk upon! 
And even then,'tis best to ask her brother, or father, or anyone else!"
"Your advice is good, Lord, and should be followed by all men of breeding," 
Storm agreed cheerfully, "and yet there are exceptions to every rule and I am 
one of them."
She caught Oburglan's eyes again, and gave him the easy grin of a sister. "Never 
trust a minstrel or bard who speaks of times and ages, for they're always 
stretching a year here and a year there, speaking of long-ago battles or fair 
ladies as if they'd witnessed them themselves. But this once, and before all 
this table, I'll tell you truth: I am half a dozen years shy of my six hundredth 
summer."
Oburglan gulped, stared at her, started to sneer then gaped. "You're serious," 
he whispered.
Storm nodded. With one slim hand she indicated the shoulder that her gown left 
bare. "Not bad, eh?" she said in perfect mimicry of Lord Thael's gruff tones.
The table erupted again, and this time Oburglan joined in the general mirth. 
Lord Thael was practically weeping with laughter, his head nodding almost into 
his platter.
At the other end of the table, Hawklan saluted her with his goblet and said, 
"Remind me never to say anything before you, Lady, that I would not want to hear 
parodied!"
"A good rule for every man, Sir Hawklan, when dealing with any man or maid," she 
returned, raising her own glass. Did his eyes rest on it just a trifle too long?
Ahno. They were fixed a little lower down. This gown hadn't been such a bright 
idea after all. But then, sophistication has its price. Moreover, if all of us 
change what we are and what we do because of the threat of Malaugrym attack, 
shapeshiflers have won the victory without ever having to fight the battle!
"In that time, I have seen Hillsfar governed in many ways," Storm said, turning 
to the envoy as the laughter started to die. "I'd be interested to hear what you 
can tell us of Lord Maalthr's publicly stated aims and intentions."
Thorlor Drynn inclined his head. "I thank you for your diplomacy and 
understanding, Lady Storm, in the wording you just employed. In reply, I can say 
only: very little. Lord Maalthr has often promised to make Hillsfar great and 
to cleanse it of all hardship, suffering, and corruption. Laudable goals that 
none, I daresay, could seriously contest. By his actions, I think you can safely 
add to those general aims his intent not to let Zhentil Keep have possession of 
Yulash, nor to suffer Mulmaster or Zhentil Keep to have control of the river 
Lis, or Moonsea shipping in general. For what it is worthmy words as a 
mouthpiece of Hillsfar being, of course, suspect by definitionI see no great 
preparations for armies to march, nor intentions on my lord's part to seize any 
other city or territory of Faerun."
"I'm relieved to hear it," Loth Shentle said dryly, "as should be all neighbors 
of Hillsfar. Two cities of rampaging warlords are more than enough hereabouts."
"You speak overcautiously, Sir!" the priest of Tymora told him, refilling his 
own goblet for perhaps the fortieth time, his face flushed with its effects. 
"Strife brings change, and change is the natural order of things. It makes men 
and maids able, and quick, and alert! Bold, and"
"Forced to rely on Lady Luck," the seneschal put in from the end of the table. 
"I've heard the litany a time or two before you were born, good Dathtor!"
The priest turned his red face around slowly to fix Hawklan with a bright-eyed 
gaze. "Then you should know e'en better than I that'tis true!"
"I know no such thing," Hawklan said firmly. "I am a simple soldier; I swing my 
sword, obey orders to the letter, and let others worry about causes and outcomes 
and grand strategies."
"And on your off days, you drink too much and wench too muchbeg pardon, 
Ladyand let life carry you on, on to the grave without disruption or 
excitement," Loth Shentle said.
"A summation that sounds familiar, Nephew?" Lord Thael said meaningfully. 
Oburglan flushed.
"No, Uncle! I mean" his eyes darted to Storm, then back to Thael with an almost 
pleading look.
"Don't embarrass me in front of the lady, Uncle?" Storm asked the youth. "Is 
that what you want to say, but dare not find the words?"
Oburglan stared at her, opened his mouth, and shut it again, turning ruby to the 
tips of his ears.
"Oburglan," Storm said, setting down her goblet to lean forward, "never be 
embarrassed to admit truth, or think and talk about life, in front of anyone. 
I'd be more embarrassed to He about my life or refuse to admit that things are 
as they are. I'm not upset to learn that you're drifting the days away hereit's 
not my life wasting away. If you're upset talking about it, that shows you're 
not satisfied in doing so, and that's gods-be-damned good."
Heads turned along the table at her language, but Storm kept her eyes locked on 
Oburglan's. "What you'd best do, when we're all gone, is take a walk in that 
beautiful garden out there with your uncle, and talk about what you want to do 
in life. Not to do what he says, but to decide for yourself. We all have to, 
sooner or later. If it makes you feel better to hear it, I'd passed away almost 
seventy years before I stopped my wild, witless pursuit of fun and started 
wondering what I wanted to do for myself."
Oburglan gulped. "Seventy years?" he said faintly. "I didn't know there was that 
much fun."
The table roared with laughter once more. When Lord Thael could speak again, he 
slapped Oburglan's arm, "Well said!" He turned to Storm and added quietly, "And 
very well said, Lady. I don't think I've a tongue nimble enough to thank you 
rightly for saying those words. I've never heard it said better, in all my er, 
sixty-eight years."
Storm smiled at him. "Shall I come back in two years to ask you what you've 
decided to do with your life?"
There were uneasy chuckles around the table, and Thael shook his head with a 
rueful smile. "I'd forgotten that the tongue can be sharper than a sword."
"I think you have the quotation wrong, Lord," the priest offered jestingly, but 
Storm turned on him with a smile.
"What, Hand of Tymora? You stand in service to a goddess and don't know for 
yourself the truth of that maxim? Truly, you must be a very good priest! All the 
clergy I know would much rather face the swords of foes than the lashing tongues 
of their superiors!"
Dathtor Vaeldeir winced. "I begin to see the truth of another maxim, Lords and 
Lady: 'If thou art captured, do and say anything to keep yourself from the hands 
of your foe's womenfolk.'"
Deep laughter rolled out around the table, and more than one eyebrow in the room 
rose to see Storm laughing as heartily as the others.
She raised her glass of newly filled, still-poisoned wine, her heart light, and 
bid the night continue long.
When the table did rise, her wish had been fulfilled; they'd talked away most of 
the time until dawn, and the first shift of servants had been replaced at table 
by a second. Most of the men were stumbling with drunken weariness as they 
sought out the jakes; Dathtor the priest was roaring drunk, and Oburglan had 
been emboldened enough by his imbibing to ask her how one best chose a wife. 
Storm was still smiling and shaking her head over that as she went to the 
women's garder-obewhich, of course, she had all to herself.
No one attacked her there. Afterward, she went for a walk in the gardens in the 
last faint moonlight, avoiding the torchlit areas. Someone at that friendly 
table was a shapeshifter and a Malaugrym dare not leave her alive, when she 
could call down the Simbul upon him or point him out to half a hundred wizards. 
The poison raging through her veins was proof enough of that.
No, an attack would come. She kept to the shadows as Loth Shentle strolled past, 
a little unsteadily, singing an old familiar ballad about ladies fair and fey. 
He startled her a few steps farther on when he paused on one of the bridges, 
announced, "Gods, but she's beautiful!" and proceeded to vomit his evenfeast 
helplessly into the pond.
Someone else was walking among the far fern beds, impossible to identify in the 
gloom. Storm sat down on a bench in the lee of a spiky bush, only then 
discerning the seneschal, Burldon Hawklan, who strode softly past, hand on 
sword, eyes sober and alert, taking care to make little sound.
Storm rose thoughtfully and watched him vanish into the night. In one hand, she 
hid the small thing she'd taken out in the garderobe.
"Out takin'takeengair, pretty lady?" said a loud voice by her elbow. The 
drunken priest of Tymora tried to lean against the tree, missed, and went for a 
short stagger before finding his balance again. Storm brought her hand to her 
mouth to cover her smile as he grinned loosely at her, sketched a shaky salute, 
and said, "Doandoantdon't you worship the Lady Tymora, e'en as I do? C'mere!"
He was upon her, and the smell of wine was strong, and triumph blazed up in his 
eyes as he embraced her. His arms tightened and seemed to be changing shape.
This was it. Their lips brushed together, and Storm worked her small magic in 
careful haste.
An instant later cruel claws raked her back, tearing away her gown and the flesh 
beneath in ribbons. Storm gasped and stiffened at the raw painbut instead of 
trying to pull away from the Malaugrym, she leaned into his embrace, deepening 
their kiss. His savaging of her back slowed in astonishment, but Storm clung to 
him with all her own great strength, holding him firmly as her tongue thrust her 
saliva into his mouth. With it went the powdered silver from the coin she'd 
dissolved with her spell.
The shapeshifter spasmed in sudden agony, fear, and desperation. The silver was 
as poisonous to him as the liquid he'd been feeding Storm all night. Had she not 
been one of Mystra's Chosen, she'd have died hours ago, after the first sip Lord 
Thael offered her. She kept that in mind as she drew her mouth away from his and 
watched him closely. The creature who was not Dathtor Vaeldeir shuddered in her 
arms, convulsed, and died.
When she was sure he was dead, Storm swung his body over one shoulder, letting 
the claws that still dripped her blood dangle, and carried it grimly toward Lord 
Thael's kitchen wing, where there should be firewood enough to burn it.
She was most of the way there, crossing the great flagstone terrace, when many 
doors opened in the manor walls and a score of servants rushed out with lit 
torches, enclosing her in a wide ring.
Lord Thael stepped out last and faced her, sword in his hand. "What have you 
done, witch?" he bellowed, monocle dangling. He peered at her, and asked, "Or 
is that you, Lunquar?"
Storm met his eyes coldly. "You know what I've done, Malaugrym. And what I must 
do." She lifted one side of her mouth in a mirthless smile, and asked, "Just to 
save time, tell mehow many more are there of you in this house?"
"I need no aid to deal with the likes of you, mortal woman," was the cold 
response. "With your precious El-minster dead, there's no one to watch us  and 
no one to stop us!" His teeth glinted in the torchlight as they lengthened into 
fangs, and he added with soft smile, "Faerun will be ours!"
One of the servants screamed. Lord Thael was turning slowly into a thing with a 
tail and hunched shoulders of corded muscle. He came forward in a slow, careful 
crouch, eyes gleaming.
Storm let the body fall from her shoulder, kicked off her high sandals, and 
walked barefoot to meet him in the bloody tatters of her gown.
When she was only two paces away, the Malaugrym sprang and brought his blade 
around in a vicious arc. Storm strode right at him. His blade whistled through 
her as if she were smoke, and she grappled with him.
The Malaugrym ducked away and hacked at her again, saw that the blade really 
could not touch her, and flung it away with a snarl. It was still clanging 
across the flagstones amid sparks when he flung himself on her.
They strained together in the torchlight, two sets of rippling muscles gleaming. 
The shapeshifter seized her shoulder and wrist and pulled, roaring triumphantly.
He'd intended to tear her limb from limb, slapping her awake and making her 
scream for mercybut he strained and pulled with all his might and she resisted 
him easily, smiling all the while, and whispered the words of an enchantment,
The Malaugrym grunted in amazement at her strength, then felt his mouth and 
tongue moving of their own accordno, her will!to utter the single word 
"Ahorga."
Her magic had forced him to name himself! Enraged, Ahorga grew his neck to 
eel-like length and his fangs into snapping jaws, and he bit savagely at the 
smiling face of his foe. She turned her head away and forced his own arm up into 
the way of his jawssuch strength! He darted his head down and sank his fangs 
deep into her left shoulder and breast.
Now the screaming would start, and she'd plead for mercy but no. This Storm 
woman hissed in pain but did not shriek or collapse. He bit deeply again, and 
twisted his head to tear a great gobbet of flesh free. Her blood fountained over 
them both, running freely to the flagstones, and he raised his head to roar 
exultantly at the high, glittering stars.
Then he felt pain such as he'd never felt before, greater than the fire spells 
that had scarred him in his youth. He writhed helplessly in his torment. Silver 
flames licked along her spilled blood, fire the same hue as her silvery hair, 
blazing up into a pillar nowand he was burning with it!
It was in pain and despair that Ahorga of the Malaugrym roared, struggling to 
break free of her grip, and failing. He stared once into her face, and saw that 
her eyes were two silver flames, too.
"Nooo!" he screamed. "Mercy!"
"I shall give you, Ahorga, the same mercy you gave to
Lord Thael Sembergelt," was the calm response. "The same mercy Malaugrym always 
afford mere mortals none. This is a cleaner death than you deserve." The silver 
flames roared up to claim him.
When the body was a burnt husk, Storm cast it down atop the body of the 
Malaugrym Lunquar, and watched them both blaze. The flagstones beneath them 
cracked and shivered with the heat, and more than one of the servants fainted 
away, torches toppling to the terrace to gutter out. Storm stood motionless 
above the pyre until ashes were all that remained of the two shapeshifters.
She looked up, half-naked, front and back in bleeding ruin. Oburglan and the 
seneschal, Hawklan, gazed white-faced at her, swords in their hands.
"Lady," Hawklan asked, "what are you?"
"One of Mystra's Chosen," Storm answered him wearily. "These were two fell 
shapeshifters; the real Thael Sembergelt and Dathtor Vaeldeir are dead."
The seneschal licked his lips and asked, "Was that, then, Mystra's silver fire?"
Storm smiled wanly. "It was pray that you never see its like again."
"Lady," Oburglan asked, his voice husky with fear, "are you will you be all 
right?"
"I will be fine soon enough, Lord Sembergelt," Storm said to him. "I grieve for 
your uncle. I would have liked to come to know him well."
Tears spilled from both their eyes, then, but Obur-glan's trembling lips shaped 
the wondering words, "Lord Sembergelt? You called me"
One bloody hand came up to trace his chin. He did not raise his blade or flinch 
away. "You are Lord Sembergelt now," Storm said to him, "and if ever you need 
comfort or guidance or the aid of Those Who Harp, come to meor tell any 
Harper." A trace of a smile came to her lips. "We even help spoiled Sembian 
lords." She stepped forward and kissed him.
His face was covered with her blood as she drew back, but his eyes shone with a 
new light through the tears.
"Lady," the seneschal said haltingly, stepping forward, "if there is anything we 
can do any aid we can render" His eyes fell to her wounds, then rose again to 
her face.
Storm shook her head. "My thanks for your offer, noble Hawklan, but no. Ill be 
fine. I'll be even better if I know your new lord enjoys the same loving 
guidance you gave his uncle."
"Lady," Hawklan said quietly, "it shall be so. If you'll permit me?"
And he took her hand, went to his knee, and kissed her bloody fingertips.
Storm smiled at him. "As I bid Oburglan, so also I ask you: Call on me if there 
is need."
She stepped back from them, looked around at Low Rythryn Towers and the ragged 
circle of torches, and shook her head.
"One good thing has come of this, at least," she told the two weeping men. "Lord 
Thael lies where he would have wished: buried in his garden." She smiled at them 
again, then turned away. It was a long walk back to Shadowdaleand she'd need 
all that time to heal herself.
See Mach-and Tay To SciRoioe
In a place of shifting shadows, behind hidden doors, in the heart of the ancient 
castle of the Malaugrym, was a light. The bright, glowing eye of a scrying 
portal floated in the murk, reflected from the tentacled face of a watchful 
figure bent over it a figure whose skin was as dark and ever-shifting as the 
sliding shadows themselves.
His eyes, however, were two bright flames, and the doomstars winked brightly as 
they spun endlessly about his wrist. He stretched, watched them dim momentarily 
as they passed through a dark drift of shadow, sighed, and murmured, "Fools 
this house is breeding fools by the score. Lunquar and Ahorga both goneand they 
deserved it."
He turned again to the light, watching the wounded Storm walk through a merchant 
camp and wave away someone who rose to offer aid. Studying her kind, weary 
smile, he sighed again and passed his hand across the portal.
It rippled, then lit with tongues of leaping fire: a bonfire, this time. Steel 
flashed back its light as three figures in leather armor battled with twice as 
many men in black. They fought in a clearingthe camp of the black-armored 
onesand the three in leather were winning. As he watched, a black-armored 
figure took a blade in the face and fell back into the fire, throwing out a 
shower of sparks. Small wonder; if those three could fight their way alive out 
of the Castle of Shadows and leave more than a score of the blood of Malaug dead 
behind them, a few Zhentilar armsmen should prove no trouble for them at all.
Wearing a smile that did not mean he was amused, the figure let his scrying 
portal fade away, stood up, and melted into the shadows. It was time to do what 
had to be done.
Eaerun, northwest Elven Court woods, Flamerule
"How many?"
"Seven Zhentilar and one ore," Belkram said, counting on his fingers. "Oh, and 
that snake."
"Oh, yesmustn't forget the snake!" Sylune said merrily. She turned to grin at 
Sharantyr. They rolled their eyes in unison.
"I," Itharr said triumphantly, "stand ahead of you. My valiant blade has 
accounted for eleven Zhent deserters, one brigand, and three fingers off the 
left hand of another brigand!"
"Men will be boys," Sharantyr murmured. A ghostly giggle answered her from just 
ahead of her left cheek. She winced; Sylune had become invisible again.
They were tired, filthy, footsoregods, how did anyone stay in armor more than a 
day? The itching, to say nothing of the small things crawling in their matted 
hair. They hadn't expected the last four Zhents, and had wasted a day chasing 
thema day more than their rations. Empty bellies were groaning now, too.
All in all, it had been a successful patrol.
They trudged thankfully past the familiar beauty of
Harpers' Hill. Passing it meant warm baths and familiar beds were only paces 
away.
"Daylight!" Itharr broke into a trot.
Sharantyr gritted her teeth and managed a sprint, her raw joints and blistered 
feet shrieking in protest. Catching up to Itharr a bare three paces from 
Treesedge, she snarled, "Walk across someone's crops, and they'll kill you! We 
go that way until we strike the road!"
She pointed, and Itharr gave her a dirty look. He sighed and began to trudge in 
the indicated direction. Tou never spared two breaths about turnips before!"
"I was never hungry enough to eat raw turnips before!" Sharantyr snarled back at 
him.
Behind them, Belkram chuckled wearily and waved a hand. "Lead on, the pair of 
you  and talk to me of roast goose, and gravy and old ale ham and dressed 
pheasant and stuffed snakenot gods-be-kissed turnipsr
"Ye gods!" Itharr cried, slapping his forehead. "The snake! You forgot to bring 
the snake!" He turned reproachful eyes on Belkram. "We could've eaten that 
snake!"
"No," Belkram corrected, "You could've eaten that snake. I saw all the human 
skulls in its lair."
"Death, death, death," Sharantyr muttered. "Is that all adventurers talk about?"
Belkram gave her a look. "Well, let's seethere are other topics: butchering 
monsters for the stew pot, burning helpless villages, pillage, ra"
"Death it is," Sharantyr said firmly. "Only a few hundred more paces now. Talk 
to me of death."
"Only a few hundred more paces?" Itharr gasped. "Good! Go and make them for me, 
so I can fall asleep right here"
"Oh no, you don't," Sharantyr said, pulling hard on his hair as he sagged. "Come 
onI'm sure that tree wants to grow to reach the light, and it can't if you're 
draped all over it, snoring like a flatulent bull! Mover
"Yes, sir!" Itharr responded sarcastically, moving smartly forward for all of 
three paces before sinking into a weary walk once more,
"Gods above preserve me," Sharantyr said through clenched teeth. "Men!"
"Oh, dear," Belkram said to Itharr. "She's noticed! I guess that means we have 
to go way off into the bushes, now, whenever we have to"
"What she hasn't noticed," Itharr retorted, stumbling in the weariness of utter 
exhaustion, "is that the gods aren't above anymorethat's what this whole 
trouble's about as Elminster said."
"Good old Elminster," Belkram said sadly, putting one foot in front of the other 
and almost falling out into the road.
"Well, granted I look bad this morning," growled the wispy-bearded guard who 
caught hold of his shoulder to steady him, "but I'm sure I don't look that bad. 
No, El-minster's dead, friend and so will ye be if ye don't convince me of thy 
rightful loyaltyand fast."
He gulped as the ghostly head of the Witch of Shadowdale came floating out of 
the trees to hang in front of him. "Well met, Guthtar," she said softly. "You 
remember me, do you not?"
"A-Aye, Lady," the guard stammered as Itharr and Sharantyr came out of the 
trees. "And her, too!" The six guards behind him fell back to get weapon room, 
eyeing all these sudden arrivals warily.
"Aye," Sylune said dryly. "I've noticed you never forget a fair-looking female. 
You are going to let Lord Mourngrym's patrol pass, aren't you?"
"Of course, Lady! Uh, begging thy pardons, sirs and Ladyuh, Lady and Lady 
ahoh, dungr
"And a pleasant good morning to you, too, Guthtar," Sylun6 said with a smile, 
floating serenely past the sputtering guard. Belkram met Guthtar's eyes, spread 
his hands in silent commiseration, and followed. Itharr and Sharantyr trudged 
along in Belkram's wake, leaning on each other.
"Oh, gods," the lady ranger yawned. At a weary stagger, she neared the 
crossroads. "We must never let ourselves get this tired again!"
"I tried to tell those last four Zhents that," Belkram told her, "I really did! 
But they just kept on snarling and waving swords at us, and, well. "
"Back from patrol, I see," Hammerhand Bucko called cheerfully from his doorway. 
They waved at himthe gesture almost made Itharr fall overand went on, not 
daring to stop now for fear of collapse.
"Lhaeo? Lhaeo!" Sylune called, her head dancing up and down in the air to snare 
the scribe's attention. "Lhaeo!"
Elminster's scribe was a morose figure, trudging along every bit as wearily as 
they were walking. He looked up at Sylune's call, brightening visibly. "Well 
met, friends!"
"Itharr, give my stone to Lhaeo, will you?" Sylune floated close to the scribe's 
head and asked him, "Could you take me to Storm, please, good scribe? We have 
much to talk about."
Lhaeo blinked at her as Itharr handed him the stone. "Of course, Lady'tis where 
I'm headed." He turned his head to look at the unshaven ranger, and said, "You 
folks look tired."
"No, really? And I spent all morning doing my hair!" Itharr told him with weary 
sarcasm. He set off grimly toward the tower.
"Fare you well, Lhaeo," Sharantyr added.
The scribe smiled wanly and waved. The three rangers nodded wearily to him and 
walked the last stretch of road to the Twisted Tower.
"Ohh, I'm so tired!" Sharantyr wailed. "And my feet hurt so muchr
"At least you've still got feet," Belkram said darkly. "Mine wore off about ten 
hours back."
"Try scratching all your itches," Itharr said without turning. "It helps to keep 
you awake."
"Could we ride on patrol next time?" Shar asked as they turned up the tower 
path.
'Through all those trees? We'd be wanting some eel-horses, rd guess," said 
Belkram.
"Just a few more steps, friends," Itharr mumbled. "Just a few more steps"
Then he noticed the row of gleaming breastplates and crossed forearms blocking 
their way. His eyes traveled up to the hard faces above them, but he recognized 
no one. Seven guards he'd never seen before were ranged across the open doorway 
of the Tower of Ashaba. They wore splendid chased armor and light helms in the 
hot summer sun, and their hairy forearms and corded thighs glistened with sweat. 
They were not moving aside.
"Stand aside, friends," Itharr said wearily, "before we fall over."
"And who are you three?" the centermost guard asked coolly. "Travelers generally 
stay at the Old Skull Innat the crossroads, down there. Beggars had best go to 
the temples there's a house of Tymora just across the river, there."
As he'd spoken, Belkram and Sharantyr had straggled up to face the guards. Shar 
sighed and let her head sink into her hands. No. No, not now. Her knees sagged, 
and Belkram put his arms around her to hold her up, swaying himself.
"We have chambers awaiting us in the tower behind you," Itharr said quietly, 
taking two steps to the right so he could lean on the nearest hitching post.
"Oh? How so? Are you, then, lords and ladies of Shadowdale?"
"She is," Itharr said, waving a hand. "The Lady Sharantyr."
"Sharantyr? It's not a name known to me," the guard-captain said jovially. "Any 
of you heard of a Sharantyr, lads? Eh?"
There was a general chorus of chuckled nays. Itharr regarded them with dull 
eyes. "You're all new hires, aren't you?"
"Thurbal engaged us some days ago," the guardcap-tain said a trifle stiffly. "We 
hail from Westgate."
"Belgard's boys?" Belgard was a retired mercenary whose school turned out guards 
known for their efficient cruelty and alertness; his graduates had gained swift 
popularity among the merchants of Sembia, and generally cost a client food, 
accommodation, armor, and over five silver pieces a day.
"Yes," the guardcaptain said shortly, "and we've been hired to keep brigands and 
ZhentiJar out of this tower, see? So clear off, all of younow!"
The three bedraggled figures in leather made no move. A light, rhythmic sound 
came from the female among themthe sound of snoring.
One of the guards snorted in amusement, and stepped forward. He bore a long 
baton in his hand, and used it to rap Sharantyr none too gently on the shoulder. 
"Hey! Wake up and clear off! You've heard the order. Now go!"
"Stand back, friend," Belkram suggested gently, "or I'll awaken enough to grow 
annoyed."
The guard cocked his head to one side, hands on hips. "Oh you will, will you?" 
he said sarcastically. "I quaver at the prospect!"
"Are you lot going to stand aside?" Itharr said. "We'd very much like to report 
in to Mourngrym."
"Lord Mourngrym's out riding the northern reaches," the guardcaptain told him 
silkily, "as all in Shadowdale know. I don't think you're anything more than 
brigands looking for a chance to slip inside. If you don't move on, it's 
brigands' chains you'll be feeling."
"In one of the cells where we can lie down?" Sharantyr asked sleepily.
"No," the guardcaptain said with a cruel grin, "our orders are to hang brigands 
from the dangle-bars."
"We're not brigands," Belkram said sourly, dragging Sharantyr to the hitching 
post on the other side of the path and draping her over it, "and you'd do well 
to let us into Hie tower!"
"We're not hired to do well," the guardcaptain said. "We're hired to follow 
orders. You're not getting past, and you've spent enough of our time. We're 
supposed to watch who passes on the road, not waste words with ruffians on our 
doorstep. So get you gone, now, or there'll be trouble."
"There will indeed," Itharr said, from his post.
The guardcaptain looked at him coldly, then turned his head back to catch the 
eyes of the guard with the baton, who stood menacingly close to Belkram, and 
said pleasantly, "Aldus, pray dispose of these petty annoyances."
"Gladly, Captain," Aldus replied, raising his baton and reaching forward to take 
Belkram by the throat.
"Have a care, Aldus," Belkram said softly to him, "that's my Harper pin you're 
hauling on."
"So?"
"A Harper pin should mean something to you, Aldus."
"Oh, aye." The guard stepped back and turned to the guardcaptain. "This one's 
stolen a Harper pin, Captain!"
"Hit him and take it, then!"
"Gladly, Captain!" Aldus spun around and brought his baton around in a wicked 
arc. Belkram stumbled back with inches to spare, and the guard rushed forward, 
pulling his baton back for another blow.
It never landed. As he charged forward, a slim hand rose from the post, caught 
hold of his arm, and pulled. Aldus's head rammed the post with all the strength 
of his charge, and Sharantyr stepped back, turned to survey the line of guards 
witheringly, and asked, "Who's next, dolts?"
There came a roar of anger, and five men started forward. "Hold hard!" their 
captain roared out, but none of them paid him heed.
Two reached the Lady of Shadowdale first, batons outand she dropped to the path 
and flung herself at their boots. They went over her with a crash.
The third man in snarled a curse and kicked at her; Shar grabbed the boot 
flashing past her and hauled sharply upward. With a ground-shaking crash, the 
man fell on his rear. Then the batons of the fourth and fifth were raining down 
on herfor a few instants, before Belkram hit them from one side and Itharr from 
the other, and two helmed heads rang together.
Itharr fell on his knees atop the groaning third guard. The man emitted a sort 
of strangled whistle and thrashed around, struggling for breath enough to shout 
out his pain. Itharr rolled away, letting the senseless fourth and fifth guards 
fall on him.
The guardcaptain started forward hesitantly, seeing only two of his men left. 
They were rising with murder on their faces and swords in their hands.
Shar got to her own feet in time to face them, her hands emptybut by then 
Belkram had smashed aside the captain's hastily drawn blade and run the man up 
against the lintel, hands on his throat.
"Call your men off attacking the Lady of Shadow-dale," the Harper snarled at him 
as they strained eyeball to eyeball, "or so help me I'll tear your throat out!" 
Iron fingers dug deep into the man's flesh to back up those words, then loosened 
enough to let the man whimper.
"Aid!" he called out in a raw voice. "An attack!"
Disgusted, Belkram bounced the man's head forcefully off the stones. The 
captain's eyes rolled up for a brief instant before he slid to the ground, but 
the Harper was already snatching the captain's blade out of his hands and 
whirling around.
The retreating Shar had fallen back over the tangled trio of unconscious guards, 
and Itharr was crouched over her, trying to ward off two jabbing blades with a 
pair of batons he'd snatched up.
Belkram snarled an oath and charged around the pile of bodies. He lunged at the 
two guards, waving his captured blade. They turned to meet him and fell back to 
force him to come between them. Belkram obliged, swerving at the last instant to 
bind the blade of one with his own. He grabbed the man by the armpit, swung him 
around into the path of the other guard's blade, and with his free hand smashed 
the man across the throat.
Gagging, the man fell. Belkram clubbed the back of his helm and sprang back.
The last guard's blade flashed through the leathers at Belkram's wrist, and the 
stolen sword spun away from the Harper's numbed fingers. The guard's face 
widened into an unpleasant grin. He sidled a foot or so, still smiling, as a 
stool Itharr had snatched up from inside the door struck the side of his head 
and carried him a pace to the south into the realm of dreams.
The two Harpers looked wearily at each other, went to pick up Shar from the 
tangle of sprawled bodies, and trudged into the tower.
They'd almost reached the end of the long central passage when Shaerl and 
Thurbal, captain-of-arms of the Twisted Tower, strode briskly across it. The 
Lady of Shadowdale was speaking. "Well, I don't think those new men are trained 
eno"
"I couldn't agree more," Belkram snarled, cradling Sharantyr's head against his 
shoulder.
"Aye," Itharr agreed, casting a guard's sword to the tiles at Thurbal's feet. 
"Next time you hire seven dolts from Belgard, be sure he remembers to send their 
brains along with them!"
Thurbal gaped at the three of them, but Shaerl turned to her captain-of-arms and 
snapped, "Get fresh guards for the doorsand send all the servants you can find 
here, as fast as they can move!"
She guided the three rangers to a bench and rang the nearest gong furiously. To 
the first servant who appeared, she snapped, "Send everyone here at once! Then 
fill my lord's baththe new big one, and mind the water's hot! Get help, but do 
it fast!"
To the second she snarled, "Three carry-chairs, and men to bear them, back here 
as fast as you're able!"
Then she turned her head as the kitchen door opened. Turk? Bring whatever you 
have roastingand all the breads and cheeses you can lay hands on, and the best 
wine you can getto my lord's chamber at once!"
"Impressive," Belkram murmured to her just before he fell asleep.
"Indeed," Shaerl told him gently. She looked down the hall to the doors, where 
armsmen were carrying in seven limp armored forms under Thurbal's coldly furious 
eye.
Itharr woke once on the stairs, swaying in his chair to murmur, "Killed a lot of 
Zhents for you"
"Eat first," Shaerl told him, guiding the chair across the parlor. "We'll talk 
later."
"Bathe first," Sharantyr announced firmly.
"Nay, Lady," one of the armsmen said gently as he set her chair down. "For ye, 
it's sleep first." The lady ranger's head lolled to one side as she began to 
gently snore; she heard him only in her dreams.
"Get this armor off them," Shaerl told the armsman, unbuckling and tugging at 
Sharantyr's body for all she was worth.
"Haste or care, Lady?"
"Care for them haste otherwise," she replied briskly, hurling a vambrace across 
the room. It struck the far wall with a crash that made a serving girl winceand 
when the armsmen enthusiastically followed Shaerl's example, the maid covered 
her ears and fled. The air quickly filled with flying pieces of armor.
Amid the clangor, puffing relays of servants speedily filled the gigantic copper 
tub. Shaerl herself added the soap and wyverntail oil, then turned back to the 
armsmen. "Get some rope," she ordered the nearest one. "I don't want them 
drowning."
"Aye, Lady."
Striding to her wardrobe, Shaerl snatched the doors open and took the first 
three garments off their pegs without looking. Sliding them under the arms of 
each rangergods, the reek!and across their chests, she flipped the ends of the 
three gowns up for the armsmen to tie the ropes to, noticed that one garment was 
a favorite of hers, shrugged, and began to disrobe.
An armsman hovering uncertainly nearby gulped, looked away, and a sash slapped 
into him. He caught it reflexively, then looked up to see his Lady's gown coming 
his way, mastered a calm expression as he fielded it, and stepped forward to 
take the rest as they were offered.
The Lady Shaerl was stepping unconcernedly into the hot depths of the tub as the 
other armsmen rushed back in with coils of rope, goggled at her for an instant, 
and wisely set about their task without comment or delay.
"More soap!" Shaerl ordered briskly as servants scurried, "and that scratcher!"
The wooden back scratcher was handed to her, and she set to work. Lice floated 
away almost immediately atop the scummy water. "Bethra," she said, without 
looking up, "Draw Lady Sharantyr's hair out over the edge, put a bowl under it, 
and start washing! Use my seafoam ointment!"
So it was that when Purk bustled up at the head of a procession bringing 
platters of hot fowl from the kitchens, he found three rangers, grimy and 
snoring, slumped over asleep in the huge bath, and the lady of the tower in 
their midst, as bare as the day she was born, scrubbing and rinsing for all she 
was worth.
"A feast is served, my lady," he announced with quiet dignityand was most 
startled a moment later when Shaerl looked up at him through her dripping hair 
and snapped, "Well, off with your clothes and get in, Purk!
Wake them up and feed themthe others can pass you the platters as you need 
them! And have wine ready so that no one chokesah, gods, give a bottle here 
first! This is thirsty work!"
A grinning kitchen-boy uncorked a bottle and handed it to his lady, who winked 
at him and said, "You're small enough! Pick up a brush, off with those, and get 
in here!" She took a swig of wine, gasped in satisfaction, looked at one of the 
armsmen, and snapped, "More hot water!"
Hastening down the stairs to obey, the armsman met one of his fellows hastening 
the other way with a basin slopping in his hands. The first said, "The lady's 
passion for bathing is crazed! Have they all washed their wits out of their 
heads in Cormyr? What's wrong with just going down to the millpond when your 
stink starts to drive the dogs away?"
The other shrugged. "Overcrowding?" he jested innocently, and went on up the 
stairs, redoubling his speed as they heard the faint but imperious call:
"Where's that water?"
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule
Bralatar and Lorgyn stepped back into the privy chamber of the Tower of Mortoth 
and exchanged coldly triumphant smiles. "Worked perfectly," Bralatar announced, 
setting down his chest. It clinked.
Lorgyn raised an eyebrow at the sound. "7 went back for my wand and some 
favorite food I thought you were getting your best spells"
Bralatar raised a decanter into view. "And some real wine, to celebrate!"
Lorgyn chuckled and set down his own coffer to study the four spread-eagled, 
motionless figures hanging in the webwork of cold fire.
"Hmm  see? It drains the mage first," he said, indicating the shrunken, nearly 
skeletal body of Mortoth the Mighty.
"Is that because we put him in it first, do you think, or because he wields the 
most magic?"
Lorgyn shrugged. "We'll have to gather some more wizards to see and we'll need 
more, anyway, to keep this open. If these apprentices here don't work properly 
or hold enough life-force, we could be stranded here after just one more 
back-and-forth trip."
"Plenty of time to go mage-gathering after we've mastered a little more magic 
and had some fun," Bralatar said, picking up the chest again and starting toward 
the door.
He stopped and turned, indicating the female apprentice with a jerk of his head. 
Irendue stared endlessly and sightlessly at the privy wall, her mouth agape. 
"Shall we free her for a little dalliance tonight?"
"I don't know if that's such a wise idea," Lorgyn said with a frown. "I thought 
of that myselfshe could show us the magic of this place, for one thingbut then 
I thought of the chance it would give her to turn some spell we don't know about 
against us. There're so many enchantments in this place, one overlaid atop 
another, that I can't see any way to keep clear of them all."
"We still have to find a way out past those things in the moat," Bralatar 
pointed out, "and the stone golem, and the cat on the lawn, to say nothing of 
whatever servants he's got in the house, and any magic they can call on! I think 
we've no choice but to pull this one out of the thrall and question her."
"What's to stop her hurling a dozen spells at us the moment her wits're her 
own?"
Bralatar frowned. "Strip her to take away any magic she carries, tie her hands 
together to stop her casting spells, and with the same rope hang her down the 
privy shaft. Dangle her just above the water, where we can threaten her with the 
things in the moat. Then each of us stretch a tentacle down there with her; mine 
with an eye to watch her closelyso she knows we're seeing what she doesand 
yours to hold your wand trained right on her!"
Lorgyn thought about it, then began to smile slowly. He looked over at the 
unseeing female apprentice and said, "First, we'll have to find some rope"
Shadowdale, Flamerule
"Shadowdale  a fitting name indeed," Argast said, peering through the leaves of 
the last tree on the west bank of the river Ashaba. "Where the Great Foe lived," 
he mused, "and so many of our kin died. Well conquer this place first."
"And rule it as a slave farm, anon," Amdramnar agreed, looking across the water 
at the twisted spire of the Tower of Ashaba. "Pretty, this all these trees, and 
the water"
Argast looked at him. "That's not what you said when we were in the swamp."
Amdramnar snarled. "If I hadn't shifted fast enough, I'd be dead now. What was 
that?"
"'Quicksand,' they call it. Didn't you hear the nice man who hauled me out?"
"Not until he screamed when you started to eat him," Amdramnar replied archly. 
"I was too busy washing the mud off I can feel grit inside me, even now!"
"We only lost a day," Argast said. "Should we cross the river here?"
Amdramnar shook his head, putting an entire day of floundering through the 
mud-choked swamp west of them out of his mind hopefully forever. "Let's work 
our way around and come in from the east. That man I talked to most of the 
night"
"Before you ate him," Argast reminded, just as archly.
"was from Hillsfar. I can talk as he did, and say the same things about Great 
Lord Maalthr and the cursed Zhents and all that. We have to talk our way past 
guards no matter how we get in."
"Why not just turn to eels and swim down to the millpond? Up onto the bank, take 
human shape, and"
"Get challenged by the first guards we meet, or a wench in the tavern, or a 
shopkeeper," Amdramnar finished the sentence for him. "I want to talk to 
someone, to confirm that Elminster's dead and this Hillsfar place is east of 
here, so we'd best be coming from the east."
"And doing what?"
"Going to ask Elminsterabout some strange shapeshifting beings our master 
Dundifolus of the Sixteen Unlit Black Candles saw. He'd come himself, but they 
changed both his feet into fish fins, and he hasn't yet managed to reverse the 
strange enchantment!"
Argast smirked. "You expect them to believe that?"
"Ill tone it down but we should ask for Elminster, and say we've been sent by 
some mage. How will they know we aren't telling the truth? Their magics can't 
read the minds of any of the blood of Malaug!"
Argast nodded slowly. "Your plans are sound. Lead on."
And so it was, not long after, that two footsore wizard's servants from Hillsfar 
trudged into Shadowdale along the Voonlar roadand passed by three 
leather-armored folk who were quietly taking a woodcutter's trail out of the 
dale due east into Myth Drannor. The three rangers were refreshed and 
reprovisioned after a day-long sleep and a bath personally administered by Lady 
Shaerl of Shadowdale. With heavy packs on their hacks, they were setting out on 
another patrol and wondering when they'd meet with lurking Malaugrym. By the 
humor of the gods, neither band saw the other.
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule
"M-Mercy," Irendue sobbed as they hauled her up through the privy hole she'd sat 
above so many times before, holding her bound wrists back behind her, over her 
head, so that she could barely keep her balance. "Mercy!"
Bralatar smiled at her as his tentacles took her by the throat and around both 
elbows, holding her so tightly she could barely breathe through her aching 
throat. Her eyes were large and dark in terror as Lorgyn's tentacles untied the 
ropes that cut into her wrists. He thrust her back, back once more into the cold 
embrace of the flames that did not burn
Irendue's body trembled as the spell energy raced through it, and she whimpered 
once before the surging energy drove away her wits once more. "You see?" 
Bralatar told her as the light in her eyes slowly died, "you are untouched. This 
is mercy."
He chuckled coldly while Lorgyn arranged the apprentice's limbs apart as they 
had been earlier. The endless hum of the spell flames grew stable once more.
"The gate is unharmed," he said at last. The two Malaugrym exchanged a smile and 
went to the study, snaking out tentacles ahead of them to uncork the wine and 
bring out some roast shadowbeast.
"Profitable, that," Bralatar said, flopping down in an old armchair that until 
recently had been the exclusive preserve of Mortoth, and raising one of 
Mortoth's best glasses in salute to Lorgyn. "The wench certainly knows how to 
talk with a wand nearly down her gullet."
"More to the point, she's seen Faerun shrewdly, and knows what lies behind what 
can be readily seen," Lorgyn replied, sipping at his own glass.
"Ah," Bralatar said slyly, "do I hear the tones of a Shadowmaster looking for a 
mate?"
Lorgyn looked at him levelly. "No," he replied, "you do not. I merely meant that 
what she knows makes her too valuable for us to destroy. How else would we have 
found out all that about the Realms and the wizards in less than a day?"
Bralatar nodded, levity gone. "You speak truth she yielded much to us, and 
swiftly. Enough for me to conclude we'd best avoid Thay, the islands Lantan and 
Nimbral, and the slave keepersCalimshan, that was the nameuntil we know a lot 
more about Faerun. These Red Wizards'll bear a lot of watching. They could be 
almost as much trouble as Elminster was. The Zhen-tarim, on the other hand, seem 
more persistent than competent. Would you say that sums up what she said?"
Lorgyn nodded. "I would and so long as we keep these things in mind, and keep 
humans from realizing that there are shapeshifters among them, nothing and no 
one stands between us and our ruling any part of Faerun that we please. You'll 
take your preferred lands, and I'll take mine."
"I want to see those lands for myself first," Bralatar replied as they shared a 
grin. "And what better way than to have some real fun hunting this time, across 
half Faerun!"
"Chasing down wizards?"
"Chasing down and slaughtering," Bralatar said with a sudden flame in his eyes, 
"any humans we fancy."
Shadows So Sharp
Only the eyes of the two guards moved to follow him as Lord Mourngrym of 
Shadowdale strode past the door of the forecourt, heading for the kitchens. He'd 
come straight in from a patrol in the northern reaches of the dale, and there 
was fresh bloodZhent bloodon his mud-spattered armor. He was bareheaded and 
unshaven, and his reddened, sunken eyes told of little sleep and hard going.
"Belmer!" he called back, turning, as he went on. "Get something hot from the 
kitchens, and a bottle of zzar, and take it to the Old Skull as quick as you 
can. A lady guest is giving birth, and the father needs a good meal and a walk 
with someone who's been a father not long pastso the gods've chosen you!"
"Aye, Lord," Belmer said with a smile, and left his post just inside the front 
doors to rush down the hall. Guthtar, who'd heard the exchange, was already 
moving to take his place.
Mourngrym stuck his head through the kitchen door, dipped a flagon into the stew 
pot, brought it out dripping, put a towel underneath it, and turned back down 
the hall, armor rattling in his haste.
"That too, Lord?" Belmer asked, hesitating.
"No, this is my evenfeast," Mourngrym told him with a grin. "Sylune tells me the 
audience chamber is full of folk with troubles, so Til be eating on the throne 
again. Just tell the cooks to send someone to the chamber a little later on to 
see if any of the supplicants are in need of something hot to eat."
Belmer turned pale at the mention of the Witch of Shadowdale, and muttered some 
prayer or other under his breath as he went into the steam-filled, noisy, 
bustling kitchens.
For a moment, Mourngrym stopped beside Guthtar with the steaming flagon in his 
hand. "Good Guthtartell Thurbal from me that I want all of you men to do half 
shifts until I order otherwise. You've been done out of a lot of sleep, and it's 
time someone gave some back to you."
The normally terse Guthtar practically bounded into a salute. "Aye, my lordr he 
said.
Mourngrym chuckled and clapped him on the shoulder. "I thought you'd find those 
orders rode easier than most." He turned to the forecourt and nodded to his two 
new guards as he stepped between them. They stiffened in salute.
When the double doors of the audience chamber boomed closed and they heard the 
guards within thunk their spears on the stone floor, Argast turned his head to 
be sure the forecourt was now empty. Finding it so, he said to Amdramnar, "In 
spite of myself, I begin to respect this young lordling. If one is to be a 
weakling, why not go all the way and serve the people rather than commanding 
them?"
Amdramnar nodded. "I like him, toobut'tis too early to tell until we can spend 
a session or two in there, hearing him sit in judgment."
They fell hastily silent as Guthtar moved closer to open the door for the 
departing Belmer. Though they'd slain two of the newly hired Westgate men and 
taken their shapes, the two Malaugrym hadn't had a chance to hear either of 
their victims speakingin a sober state, at leastand didn't want anyone to 
overhear them now and think the speech of Aunsible and Haratch had suddenly and 
curiously changed.
Belmer went out of the tower, and a magnificently robed, bearded man of middling 
years came in, with the Lady Shaerl on his arm. The holy hammer of Tyr, worked 
in silver, rode on a heavy chain around his neck. "I find Shadowdale dispirited 
for the first time since the Knights of Myth Drannor rode into it for their 
first time," he was saying in a rich, sonorous voice, "and that is ill. Have you 
had much trouble in this time of strife?"
"We are only days away from turning back the armies of Zhentil Keep, good 
justicar," Shaerl said gently, "a victory that cost us greatly. The Witch-Queen 
of Aglarond"
The two guards clearly heard the priest's hiss of indrawn breath as he was 
turning to walk between them at that moment. He looked awed.
"tells us that the Zhent troops were led by the god Bane himself. In the fight 
against him, the temple of Lathander, which formerly stood across the way, was 
destroyed, along with the archmage Elminster and, some have testified under 
oath, the goddess Mystra, herself."
The priest came to an abrupt halt. "You credit this to be true?" he asked, his 
voice incredulous.
"I do, holy lord, and can produce witnesses whose testimony will, I know, 
impress you," Shaerl said firmly.
The priest waved a dismissive hand. "Well enough, so let us grant that the tales 
are true. Bane, Mystra, and Elminster all destroyed along with that temple over 
there." He drew a deep breath, shook his head, and bid gruffly, "Say on."
"Over half of our soldiers fell in defending the dale," Shaerl told him, "and 
are now pyre ashes; scarce a farm in this dale did not lose someone. Moreover, 
magic has gone wild here, and Storm Silverhand, the Bard of Shadowdale, has been 
missing for five days."
The priest suddenly looked very old, and felt behind him for the bench he knew 
was there. Shaerl smoothly guided him to it, keeping hold of his hand as the 
justicar of Tyr sank down onto the bench and whispered hoarsely, "Storm. I we 
were very close, once. I'd hoped to see her this night, after my audience with 
the younwith your Mourngrym."
Shaerl patted his arm. "She told us she was looking forward to your visit, 
because you had been so noble to her," she said softly. "She spoke of your valor 
and kindness."
For just a moment, the proud priest looked like a young boya young boy on the 
verge of tears. "She did?" he asked, his voice rising in wonder.
"Yes," Shaerl said, "and I've never known her judgment to be wrong yet. I feel 
as if you are an old friend."
Argast leaned a trifle closer to Amdramnar and muttered, "She's smooth, this 
one."
Amdramnar agreed with the slightest of nods, but just then the doors between the 
audience chamber and the forecourt scraped open and three farm folk came out. 
"The gods bless him!" the stout old woman in the forefront was saying.
"If he keeps his promise," her hired hand said doubtfully as they went out, not 
even seeing the two people on the bench.
The old woman turned and poked out a bony finger. "Now ye list and learn, 
Thurton! If there's one thing this young lord of ours does, it's keep his word! 
When my man, Undlejack, was still alive, he won a hand of card's off Mourngrym, 
playin' the night away at the Old Skull, and the lord asked him his price A new 
roof, my man says, as bold as anything'cuz that's what we needed, in truthan' 
the next day, gods be blowed if the lord doesn't show up with half a dozen 
guards, n' do the roof right then! The lord himself, up on our cottage, sweatin' 
along with the rest of 'em! And when he's done, he asks if we want the fence set 
straight, seein' as they're here an' up comes a cart, after, when we're 
talkin'and out of it he serves us a feast, an' the neighbors what come to 
watch, too! Tells us it's no more'n we deserve!"
She turned and marched out of the forecourt, then pivoted back to face the 
astonished Thurton. "Ye find me another lord anywhere as does that for mean' 
others what ain't high and mighty, an' can't do him anything great in return! 
Ye'll be lookin' from the Sword Coast to the weird lands past Thay, an' not be 
findin' one, neither!"
Another two dalefolk strode out, one of them weeping, and the other walking 
awkwardly beside her. "Now, Nanhe can't raise to life someone he can't find! He 
did say he'd walk you around those laid out in the temple for burial, to see if 
we can find him. No one could do more."
The next person to come to the door was Mourngrym, his face pinched with sorrow. 
Shaerl leapt up and threw her arms around him. "My love," she said in a low, 
tender voice as their arms tightened around each other. He kissed her gently, as 
if they were alone in the room, before lifting his head and saying, "Shaerl, ask 
Thurbal to pass the word. No one's seen Aglyn's grandsire since the battle, and 
Nan's beside herself not knowing. If anyone"
Mourngrym's gaze fell upon the priest of Tyr, waiting patiently to be 
introduced, and his face lit up. "Most Holy Arbeth! Be welcome, please, in 
Shadowdale! I'm sorry I didn't see you at once! Have you eaten?"
"If we could talk for just a few breaths, Lord Mourngrym, I'd be delighted to 
dine with you and your beautiful lady. I'd hoped also to meet the Lady Storm, 
but I hear she's not to be found."
"That is so, I fear," Mourngrym said, "but come in, and we'll talk, the three of 
usoh, yes: my lady and I rule as one." The priest's eyebrows were still raised 
as the doors of the audience chamber swung shut behind the three of them.
"He's a good ruler," Amdramnar said grudgingly.
"All the better for us, then," Argast said. "Let him manage our cattle until 
we're ready to rule here."
"Our foes the three bold rangers seem to have just departed on patrol do we 
chase after them?"
"No, let them go. They'll return to usand then we'll feed."
"Eat them?"
"YesI mean to eat them alive, limb by limb, slowly, while they plead. Well use 
our everfire wand to seal the joints and keep them living. They may last several 
days."
"And then?"
Then we'll reveal ourselves, and start on the rest of these cattle."
They had just time to fall silent and look as if they'd been that way for some 
time when a tall, silver-haired figure strode through the front doors, exchanged 
a salute, a wink, and a blown kiss that left old Guthtar blushing, turned into 
the forecourt, and strode to the audience chamber doors.
Argast turned. "Ah, my La"
"Hist!" Amdramnar and Guthtar said together, reaching to silence him. Storm 
turned, gave them all a cheery wave, and flung the doors wide.
That's Lady Storm!" Guthtar snarled in a whisper. "Never stop her going 
anywhere!" By common accord, the three guards had moved hurriedly to look 
through the closing doorsin time to see Storm, with a joyous laugh, sweep the 
justicar of Tyr up into the air as if he was a boy, then bring him down to her 
lips.
"Ye gods," Argast said, for Guthtar's benefit. "Guarding folk around here's 
going to be a lot more interesting than I'd dared hope!"
"A lot more fun, too," Guthtar whispered hoarsely, and trotted back to his post.
The two Malaugrym exchanged glances. These folk of
Faerun seemed to care for each other a lot more than any of the blood of Malaug 
ever had  and laughed a lot more, too 'f- his tentacles as she fought for 
calm.
The Malaugrym smiled softly. "Not yet, so long as you are obedient, Lady not 
yet."
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule
Cold fire flickered, and Irendue was free of the endless nothingness and 
blinking away tears to stare into the darkly handsome face of one of the cruel 
shapeshifters a human face whose eyes were two dark flames.
Irendue swallowed as he took her hand and lowered her gently to the privy 
chamber floor. The air was cool on her bare skin. She shivered as the monster 
smiled at her.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, voice quavering despite herself.
"Not yet, Lady." He drew her firmly out of the room, past the humming lines of 
white fire that held the suspended bodies of the master and her two fellow 
apprentices.
"My name is Bralatar," he said as he guided her into the study and sat her in 
the master's chair. Once she was seated, two tentacles slid gently around her 
wrists, and another captured both of her ankles, but their coils held her 
loosely, almost gently.
"What do you want of me?" she whispered. "And where is the other one?"
"Not far away, exploring this impressive estate," Bralatar replied, "but we can 
speak more freely later after you've shown me how to do a certain something 
with this."
He held up Mortoth's crystal ball. The glossy sphere, larger than a man's head, 
shone back the fire of his eyes. His smile was not a pleasant thing to see.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, trembling under
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Flamerule
"1 understand Storm's concern about their living on to rise behind her and slay 
again after the battle seems won," Khelben muttered in exasperation, "but when 
one uses Mystra's fire on anything, not a lot is left to work with!"
"Alassra turned a dozen or more Malaugrym into mushrooms at Irythkeep," Laeral 
reminded him, "and they fell from a height to shatter on rocks. Surely some 
residue remains there, however small, that we could use"
"Then go to the Cavern Perilous and cast whatever is needful to bring some of 
that residue here!"
Laeral glided close to plant a fond kiss on the ear of the lord mage of 
Waterdeep as he stood staring and sweating into the heart of a slowly spinning 
magical construct in the air before him. She left the chamber.
The construct wavered, billowed varicolored smoke, and collapsed, flying apart 
into spreading motes of dust and light. Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun gave the 
scattering residue his best scowl, sighed, and strode to his favorite armchair. 
For more than a day now, with Laeral at his side, he'd been working feverishly 
on a spell to trace Malaugrym or prevent them from shapeshifting freely 
preferably both.
He sipped at the elverquisst in his glass, turning it slightly so that the 
flecks of gold in the smooth, iridescent heart of the ruby liquor sparkled in 
the light of Laeral's latest spella spell that conjured a ring of dancing 
radiances that looked like candle flames.
Briefly he wondered if he should watch over his lady, to see that nothing ill 
befell her in the Cavern Perilous, a vast cave in the heart of Mount Waterdeep, 
which they used when working magics that might prove damaging to the 
surroundings. Nowadays, with magic gone wild, Khelben thought sourly, just about 
any spell could prove damaging to the surroundings.
He'd barely had that thought when the air across the room shimmered and 
sparkled. His beloved smiled at him as she crossed the room, a stone in her 
hands, the black spatters of long-dried mushroom clear upon it.
With a smile, Khelben bounded up out of his chair, feeling the familiar 
excitement of the chance to work truly new magic.
Then he saw the brightness of unshed tears in Laeral's eyes, and looked a 
wordless question at her as he came forward, arms out to hold and comfort her.
His lady sighed as she came into his embrace. "I wish Elminster were still with 
us. Even more than holy Mys-tra, his presencegruff ways and allmade me feel 
all was right in Faerun, underneath the troubles of the day."
Elven Court woods, Flamerule
"I'm sure I saw someone walking through the trees just about here," Shar 
whispered. The three rangers crouched together amid a close-grown stand of 
massive dark trunksshadowtops that had stood on this slope for nigh a thousand 
years.
""What sort of someone?" Itharr asked her. "Human?"
"A youngish man, in robes, going from down there, along this slope, toward 
somewhere that way. I think he was on his way back after a call of nature."
"On his way back to a camp, or a halted group of wayfarers," Belkram mused. 
"Either way, we'd best be cautious when going where this knave you saw was 
headed, for fear of being seen by a sentryor blundering into the heart of a 
group of foes."
Sharantyr laid a silencing hand on his arm and pointed back the way they'd come. 
All three strained to see and hear something. After a moment, Itharr caught 
sight of a furry animal moving away and said reassuringly, "Badger a big one, 
but a badger."
"That's not reassuring," Shar said, her face inches from his, "because I saw it, 
too and what I saw go behind that tree stood on two legs and had several eyes, 
on stalks."
"Malaugrym," Belkram said bleakly. "Hunting us?"
"Why else would it be here, in the depths of the Elven Court woods, where 
creatures to devour or hide among are relatively few?" Shar replied. 
"Doppelgangers like cities, where there's prey in every alley and folk to hide 
among on every corner. Of course it's after us."
"I'm vastly reassured to know we now know what's going on," Itharr said with a 
grin. "I'll be ecstatic if someone details what, by the skulls of the Seven Lost 
Gods, we do now?"
Behind them, from just about where they'd been peering at the probable 
Malaugrym, there came a sudden shout of alarm and the sharp 'whump' of a 
spell-burst, followed by a crackling of brush and somebody crying out an 
incantation in desperate haste.
"That's easy," Belkram said with a wolfish grin. He waved a hand in the 
direction of the commotion. "We sit and watch."
Thuruthein Tlar was determined to impress his master. Orth Lantar was the wisest 
Red Wizard Thuruthein had ever metand wise Red Wizards guarded and rewarded 
those who were truly loyal to them, for there was no more rare commodity in all 
of Thay.
Prestym, lyrit, and the others were the sort of ambitious, scheming apprentices 
that surrounded every Red Wizard; a seething mass of fawning back-stabbers who 
were little better than fodder. Thuruthein suspected Orth Lantar knew their true 
worthand probably intended to spend the lives of more than a few of them in his 
stated attempt to penetrate the ruined elven city of Myth Drannor and find some 
of its fabled magic. Thuruthein was determined not to be counted among the 
expendable.
So when three humans in leather armor came skulking around the campbrigands, 
for certainin his watch field and during his sentry duty, Thuruthein knew just 
what to do.
He'd stood up behind his tree and was aiming the wand very carefully at the face 
of the woman, humming in anticipation and noting her wild beauty with the 
briefest of appreciative regretwhen he heard the smallest of sounds close 
behind him and whirled about, heart leaping into his throat.
To see himself grinning back at him! A Thuruthein Tlar with tentacles instead of 
hands. Those tentacles were stretched out an impossibly long way, like two 
hungry snakes, so as to be almost around Thuruthein's throat!
Orth Lantar's senior apprentice trembled, swallowed, and fired his wand with 
commendable calmnessonly to have his foe collapse like a felled tree before the 
spell-burst, falling beneath most of its harm.
It gathered itself and lunged at him with a forest of tentacles.
Backing away in sudden real terror, Thuruthein stammered the most powerful 
incantation he knew.
The blazing beam of destruction seared the body that so resembled his own almost 
entirely away to ashesbut something dark and huge and very fast indeed reared 
up out of the leaves right in front of him, and seven mouths opened hungrily.
Thuruthein had barely time left to scream, "No! Noooo! I was loyal, Master! I 
was loyaaaaaah"
"A loyal Red Wizard's apprentice?" Belkram asked, raising his eyebrows. "A rare 
gem indeed!"
"Belt up," Shar hissed at him, "and let's get out of here! / don't want to get 
caught between a Malaugrym looking for us and an angry Red Wizard!"
"You don't?" Itharr asked as they sprinted frantically away through the woods. 
"Where's your sense of adventurer
The map held in midair before him, in the teeth of four floating skulls, was 
finally beginning to make sense. If one placed the balefire rune in the 
emptiness within the circle of nine black blades, a sequence of directions was 
revealed, leading to what, by the fires?
Orth Lantar's head snapped up from the map as his crystal ball flashed a 
blinding red and began to shudder, rattling in the carved cup that formed the 
head of his staff. At the same time, a binding in his mind shifted uneasilythen 
snapped, flooding his thoughts with a brief, fading pain and a frantic calling
Thuruthein? By the Seven Serpents! Orth Lantar whirled, snatching up his most 
mighty wand from the table. "To me!" he called, and flung up his hand. His most 
powerful staff was leaping across the tent toward it when he felt an inward 
tremor, and sighed. His best apprentice was dead.
The staff smacked into his palm, and the Red Wizard spun around again to fix the 
crystal ball with coldly furious eyes. Under his steady glare the scrying sphere 
quieted and clearedand in its depths he saw a wolf lift bloody jaws from 
Thuruthein's torn face. The creature twisted horribly and become a larger thing, 
like a bear with four long, spidery arms, shaggy hair, and piercing talons. It 
raised its head and sniffed the air, gave a horribly human laugh, and shambled 
purposefully away, not even glancing back at the apprentice's sprawled body and 
vainly lifted hands.
"An attack that robs me of something so valuable must be swiftly avenged," Orth 
Lantar told the nearest skull, "lest some rival behind it misread it as weakness 
and send all sorts of petty annoyances in its wake."
"Swift strikes the avenger, and towers topple toward the sunset," the skull 
intoned. The Red Wizard stiffened and stared at it in amazement. He shook his 
head, feeling suddenly dangerously close to tears. This must be one of 
Thuruthein's last pranks!
He set the warding rod to guard the magic in his tent from interlopers and shot 
a last look at the scene in the crystal. Rings winked on his fingersand he 
vanished. Four skulls tumbled to the floor, the conjured map fading away to 
nothingness once more. There came a startled exclamation from the apprentice on 
watch outside the tent.
"Master?" an anxious male voice called. "Master?"
At the lack of reply, its owner was emboldened enough to part the tent with the 
rod that bore the hand of a dead man, and peer within. In eerie silence, four 
human skulls rose to face him. Radiances deep within the rod on the table and 
the crystal ball atop its staff winked in unison, faster, and faster
Prudently, the apprentice withdrew, letting the hangings fall.
"Craven dullard," one of the skulls murmured as it sank down to the carpets 
again. Thuruthein Tlar had been busy in the idle time he'd had earlier this day, 
when the tent was up and his master was busy setting the wards around the camp. 
Now his time was all gone.
The crystal sphere flashed a sudden scarlet, and another of the skulls began to 
moan.
"Where, by the beard of Elminster, are we running to, anyway?" Belkram gasped as 
they topped a rise and headed down a fern-choked gully. "What makes one part of 
this old forest any safer than another?"
"Ask her," Itharr grunted as, side by side, they rounded a riven stump. He 
jerked his hand back at Sharantyr, who was watching their rear, ready blade in 
hand. "She's t"
The rest of his words were lost in a sudden rush from the side of the gully, a 
plunging fury of flashing talons and dark hairy bulk and gleaming fangs.
Belkram was thrown off his feet to crash heavily through thorns and dead 
branches, and heard Sharantyr scream as she charged. He snatched at his blade as 
something large and dark and hairy clawed him something that was crouched atop 
Itharr, raking its talons and surging forward to bite down at the ranger beneath 
it with a horrible wet crunching sound that made Belkram wince as his blade 
finally grated free of its scabbard. Too late.
All Too Much Magic
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule
The fire was so cold, so utterly cold. Its chill made her limbs tremble, 
helplessly and endlessly, as it rushed through her and on around the web. 
Irendue gasped at its icy searing, feeling her teeth chatter uncontrollably as 
she stared at the all-too-familiar walls and ceiling of the privy chamber and 
wished she could die.
The one called Bralatar had promised her death after he and his companion were 
finished with her. She could still feel the cold slime of his tentacles 
slithering into her ear and out her nose, and the casual way in which he'd 
pointed out, as she gagged and wept, that simply expanding his tentacle at this 
moment would cause her head to explode like a rotten fruit, giving him his most 
favorite of meals still-warm human.
Irendue swallowed, sick at the thought, and almost let her head sink back into 
the endless white fire. It would be so easy to just surrender
Aye, surrender and die in slow, screaming agony while the two shapeshifting 
monsters gloated over her
Irendue swallowed again, and looked beside her at the master, hanging 
slack-jawed and unseeing, virtually a skeleton, his hair falling out in clumps 
from a shriveled scalp. Mortoth had been vigorous and strong, brusque even, but 
when he took her to his bed, he'd shaken with passion long pent up She looked 
again at his shriveled ruin and shuddered at what he'd become.
It was the first time she'd been free to see or think about anything without one 
of the shapeshifters ordering her about. The one called Bralatar had been 
careless in his haste, so confident of her trembling fear that he'd thrust her 
back into the web of fire and simply pushed at her face as he turned away. But 
her head had passed between two strands of the enchanted everfire, and so 
remained free.
His eagerness to be ahunting had let Irendue Nuen-tar, most favored but least 
powerful of the apprentices of Mortoth the Mighty, keep her wits, but she could 
take no advantage of that while she trembled in the grip of the spell. She was 
caught in some sort of gate that took the two monsters to and from their home. 
Even more chilling than the thoughts that her lifeand that of the master and 
Turnold and Larethkept the gate open, that it sucked energy out of them to do 
its work, was the thought of how many more shapeshifters might dwell at the 
other end of that gate free to spill into Faerun at any time, to take the 
shapes of kings and merchant princes and wizards alike, and ruthlessly rise to 
rule all.
And what if they disagreed, as men always seem to, and fell to war? They could 
change shapes like flitting leaves to suit their purposes. The men, so helpless 
by comparison, would fall in their thousands and stain all Toril dark crimson 
with their spilled blood She had to get free.
So much depended on her. She simply must win free of this evil spell, but how?
Even now, one shapeshifter must be tiring of the hangings and statues and little 
carved things Mortoth had gathered in his long life of sorcery and be turning 
back through the labyrinthine ring-shaped house, toward this tower. The other 
must be hunting down the three grim rangers she'd seen him watching on their 
cautious creepings through an ancient forest.
The ball! The master's scrying crystal! She'd never dared do this for fear of 
Mortoth's wrath, but She looked at the thing of bones beside her, then looked 
away again.
Slowly and carefully, Irendue lifted her head and called, "Buldimer! To me!"
There was a thrumming sound from the unseen doorway behind her, and Irendue's 
heart leapt. It pleased Mortoth to give names to the items he'd personally 
enchanted, that he might summon them in need. With this evil spell linking her 
to the master, it seemed the items would answer her call!
To me!" she called again, putting all her will behind it this time. The sphere 
of crystal sailed into view around the fiery web, flying smoothly through the 
air to come scudding to a stop in the air before her, a little to one sidethe 
master's side.
She could see into its depths, where there was a forest and tiny running 
figures, and the flash of swords, and a bear that grew a human face and hands. 
One of those hands rose from a fold of pelt holding some-tiling she knew well: 
the master's wand of pain.
She'd seen him use it on the cat that prowled the garden, and on Lareth once. 
She'd even felt its peculiar burning sting herself when she'd disagreed with 
Mortoth on what beast shape he'd change her into, and what use of her he'd make 
then. She'd never forgotten its lash, or the softly spoken word the master had 
used to make it hurt her so.
She spoke that word now. "Anamauthree," she said, softly but clearly, staring 
into the crystal, and feeling a sudden surge in the white fire around her as the 
crystal flickered.
The only flesh the wand was touching as she spoke was the grasping hand of the 
creature called Bralatarand so, of course, its magic was visited upon him. She 
saw him stiffen and stagger. From out of the forest beyond, something came 
roaring. Something blue-white and deadly, which washed across the crystal with 
blinding fury, sending out a lance of light through the web beside her.
The endless fire faltered for a momentand with a sob of desperation, Irendue 
flung herself forward through a moment of twisting, churning agony and fell 
free.
She'd never thought falling on her face on the cold, hard privy chamber floor 
would be such a welcome thing even with the sick, weak feeling in her right 
arm. She looked at it, shuddered, and bit her lip as fresh tears came.
Her once smooth, shapely arm was now wrinkles of skin over bones, from forearm 
to shoulder a thing of death. She lifted it, and watched it move normally. She 
flexed the fingers of her unblemished hand, beyond the ruin, and watched them 
respond as usual. She touched the floor with one and felt nothing.
Irendue swallowed and looked back up at the web of fire, a thing of stars 
through the tears on her lashes. The master hung there more dead than alive, and 
Turnold and Lareth, too.
She knelt on the floor below it and shuddered, gathering all her strength for 
what she knew she must do. The crystal ball flashed and spun silently above her, 
but she did not bother to look at it. Whatever befell in that distant battle, 
she must prevail here and now.
Here, andnow. Grimly she wobbled to her feet, unbalanced by her shriveled arm, 
and swayed, fighting for calm and stable footing. If she fell back into the web, 
this would all be for naught.
She wept anew when she stared into the master's sunken face. It was little 
better than a skull, a skull with staring white eyes, no pupils to be seen in 
those deep-sunken sockets.
Irendue swallowed. With her good arm, she reached out and tugged at his hair. A 
good handful of it came away; she flung it aside in revulsion and tried again, 
twisting her fingers into what little hair was left and shaking him. His scalp 
began to tear and no blood welled forth!
"Master! Brave Mortoth! My master! Irendue calls thee!" she cried desperately, 
her face inches from his own. His lips moved slightly, but no sound came forth. 
He made no further reaction. She shook him again, and patted at his forehead and 
shoulderthe only other places in the flowing fire that she dared reach, earning 
an almost painful tingling in her fingertips as she did so. There was no 
response at all this time.
Irendue stepped back. Tears fell unheeded to the floor at her feet, and she 
regarded her master soberly. "Fare better than this, Mortoth," she said 
formally, once she'd fought down sobs to find a voice. Then, with a last great 
sigh, she turned away. The great wizard was beyond her help.
His hands were spread, the fingers awash with white fire. There was no way for 
her to get them free to open the spellbooks that would respond only to his 
touch. The only spell she knew to banish magic was in one of those books and 
without its touch, this web of fire remained a doorway for legions of 
shapeshifters, and Faerun stood unguarded.
The words seemed to echo in her head, as if declaimed as a doom by a great 
herald. "Faerun stands unguarded," she whispered aloud, and looked wildly around 
the room, half-expecting shapeshifters to curl out of the air in all corners.
Nothing happened. The cold fires raged on, humming endlessly, and the crystal 
ball hung in the air beside her, flashing and flickering. She looked once into 
its depths, then at her two fellow apprentices, spread-eagled and sightless in 
the grip of the spell.
Lareth's hair was long enough, and one of Turnold's knees projected out of the 
streaming fire. She stepped forward, calling their names in a soft but insistent 
whisper, shaking them until the very flames around them snarled in protest. She 
was rewarded at last with eyes swimming open, questing dully about for a moment 
before fixing on her.
"Lareth! Turnold!" she hissed. "I need you!"
Lareth's mouth worked silently, but Turnold licked his lips and said, slowly and 
carefully, "I have always suspected this."
The words were followed by the faintest of smiles. Irendue would normally have 
answered such a gibe with stinging words, but now it made her eyes fill with 
tears. Turnold's wits were still his own something, at least, was as it should 
be in the Tower of Mortoth.
"Turnold," she said, ignoring the tremor in her voice, "do you know where the 
master keeps scrolls or items to dispel magic?"
Turnold's eyes held sorrow. "In his grimoires, only. He didn't want us unweaving 
his wards and getting into things he wanted undisturbed."
"How can I get you free?"
Turnold managed the smallest of shrugs in his bonds of flame and said, "I know 
not, but this gate must be destroyedor all Toril stands in danger."
Irendue nodded and with an impatient hand wiped tears from her cheeks. "But 
how?" she'asked, thinking of all the unusable staves and rods and floating 
scepters in the rooms around her. Either one of the shapeshifters might step 
into the room at any moment. She had no time.
"The web," Lareth said haltingly, his voice sharp and high with fear at what he 
was suggesting, "lives through our life. Slay us, and it will fade."
Turnold's eyes blazed with sudden fire. Irendue looked helplessly from one 
imprisoned apprentice to the other until her eyes were snared by those of the 
older, wiser apprentice.
"Do it," Turnold whispered hoarsely, transfixing her with eyes of steel. " 'Tis 
the only way."
"I can't!" Irendue hissed helplessly, standing nude before him, tears rolling 
down her cheeks once more. She could not look away from his blazing eyes.
Hanging in the web of fire, Turnold said carefully, "You must. Know, Irendue, 
that I have always loved you'tis why I baited you so often."
"I can't harm anyone!" she wailed, clenching her fists.
"Take the sword the master keeps behind the door," Turnold said faintly. "Put it 
in my mouthand then push. Please."
Her tears almost blinded her as she found the sword in the study, fumbled its 
heavy length back through the passage, and came to face Turnold once more.
"I can't do this to you," she whispered. "I just can't."
"You must," he said fiercely, straining forward in the web of flames, "and you 
will. Put the blade in my mouth."
Irendue shook her head, weeping wildly. The sword point danced and glittered 
wildly in front of his-face until he growled, "I suppose one of my eyes would do 
as well, but I hardly think taking off my ears will suffice."
His familiar sarcasm steadied her. Irendue slid the steel between his teeth. 
Resting it there, she asked quietly, "Turnold, are you sure?"
"Of clorse hlyime shlure," he managed to say around the tip. "Do it!"
Irendue swallowed, blew him a kiss, closed her eyesand thrust the blade 
forward.
"Gods greet ye, Turnold," she said huskily, giving him the formal farewell. Her 
stomach heaved, and she almost flung the blade away in her haste to tear it 
free. When she opened her eyes again, she tried not to look at the limp thing 
that had been Turnold, but his blood was blazing up around him in flames of 
orange and red, and the web of white fires was dim, fading as she watched!
Irendue let out a tremulous breath and looked at Lareth. "CanCan you pull 
free?" she asked him, and watched his face tighten as he struggled. Cold fire 
flickered around his trembling limbs, but after a long, silent battle he gave 
up, sagging forward. His teeth were chattering in fear as he raised a gray face 
to her and said, "D-Do it."
She did. It was easier the second time and as the apprentices' bodies slumped, 
the web of fire faded silently away, gone as if it had never been. Its passing 
was marked by the hollow clatter of Mortoth's bones bouncing on the floor.
With dull eyes, Irendue stared at his grinning skull. She went to her knees 
among the dead men, and the dust that had been the skin of her master eddied 
around her. The bloody sword was cold and heavy in her hands as the world 
dissolved in tears again
The voice, when it came, was menacingly quiet. "What have you done?"
Irendue lifted her head and the sword together, glaring up through tangled hair 
at the other shapeshifter. He wore the form of a handsome, sandy-haired man with 
a mustache but his eyes glittered dark and deadly, like those of a hawk.
"Freed us," Irendue gave him her fiercely whispered answer. "Freed us all."
"You shall die for this," Lorgyn said softly.
"I know," the woman replied calmly, embracing the sword as if it was a babe in 
her arms. "Kill me, then, and have done monster."
Lorgyn showed his teeth in a smile. "Ah, no," he said in almost friendly tones. 
"Death need not be so fast and easy as all that. I shall use your sorcery to 
help me raise another gate and your body to power it. Of course, that body need 
not be whole"
Still wearing that terrible grin, he advanced on her.
Elven Court woods, Flamerule
"Die!" Belkram roared in fury, forgetting all thoughts of stealth and nearby 
wizards as he thrust his blade repeatedly into the shapeshifter's hairy, 
many-taloned bulk. If only it were still silver, he thought fiercely as he drove 
his steel home once more and struck something hard within, making the Malaugrym 
quiver.
It snarled and shrank away, and Belkram lunged after it, catching sight of 
Sharantyr's blade flashing on its far flank. The lady ranger's blade glistened 
as it rose and fell with a green-hued, translucent slime that must be the 
monster's blood.
"Right," Belkram snarled, "let's see all of your blood, beast! All of it!"
His blade thrust down to its hilt into the shifting bulk before him, and the 
Malaugrym recoiled, drawing flailing tentacles back into itself in struggling 
spasms of pain.
As it receded, it left Itharr behind, writhing weakly on the ground, his 
lifeblood drenching the moss and dead leaves around him. The Harper's mouth 
worked, and his eyes were blood-red; Belkram knew his friend was sorely wounded.
Delude yourself not, Belkram told himself sourly, he's dying.
Frantically he chopped and slashed at the shapeshifter, hearing Sharantyr's 
sobbing as she did the same thing. Her hair swirling around her, and she leapt 
high to throw all her weight behind her blade.
Something blazed with sudden fire behind her. A rolling wave offeree, like a 
wave she'd once waded through on the beaches of Sembia, took her behind the 
knees and flung her forward onto the Shadowmaster.
Gray flesh opened up around her, seeking to suck her down in and smother her. 
Sharantyr screamed in fear and fury, clawed her way clear, and wriggled off the 
beasts's far side.
She came up wild-eyed, with blade in hand and breast heavingand gaped in 
astonishment at a cold-eyed man in the robes of a Red Wizard, who stood over 
Itharr with staff in hand, glaring at a rainbow-hued radiance in the air around 
him.
"Must all spells go wild?" he snarled, leveling his staff in both hands as if it 
were a lance. Sparks raced down its length, and from its end burst brilliantly 
blue butterflies.
Belkram was still cutting at the heaving, roiling ten-tacled mass that was the 
Malaugrym, but trying at the same time to keep watch on this newcomer. The 
shapeshifter rose into a pillar of flesh, reached spade-shaped arms toward the 
Red Wizard, slimmed those arms into needlelike pincers
The Red Wizard said something soft and briefand fire seemed to be born within 
the Malaugrym, hurling its flesh and tentacles apart in an eruption of hissing 
steam.
The riven body fell back onto scorched moss, dwindling into something that was 
almost human. Something faceless and sprawled, which blazed with many small 
fires.
Shar faced the Red Wizard across their smoke and asked in a shaking voice, "Why 
 why did you aid us?"
The wizard's cold eyes met hers, and Sharantyr was suddenly aware of how easily 
he could destroy them. Even with magic fraying wild, he bore several wands at 
his belt, something longer and more impressive sheathed like a sword at his hip, 
and the staff. Lights winked here and there along its carved length, and were 
answered by glows from among the many rings on his fingers. The Knight swallowed 
and stepped back, raising her sword. Belkram moved to her side, his blade also 
ready.
The Red Wizard smiled thinly. "Another day we might be foes to the death," he 
said in a voice strong with confidence and power. "But against such a one as 
this"
The sorcerer gestured down at the collapsing ashes that had been the Malaugrym, 
and went on, "Against such a one, all must stand togetheror no man in Faerun 
will know freedom, in the end."
He did something to his staff, and a glass vial appeared in the air above 
Sharantyr's hand. As it came to rest gently in her palm, he bowed to them both 
and turned away.
The flash of his departure lit up the rune graven in the glass. "A healing 
potion of the utmost power," Sharantyr said wonderingly. She went to her knees 
beside Itharr.
Blood was bubbling at his lips with every breath. She unstoppered the vial with 
infinite care and tipped it deep within, feeling his teeth tighten on the glass 
as a sudden spasm racked him.
"May the gods ascend to their rightful places, so that we can pray to them once 
more,17 she said feelingly, holding the vial firmly in place as Itharr bucked 
and writhed in Belkram's arms.
"May these accursed shapeshifters return to their rightful places," Belkram said 
to her, "so that we don't have to!"
"Gnorlgh," Itharr agreed weakly, from beneath them. "Gut thlisgh out ou 
mymouth!" He spat out the vial and struggled to sit up.
"Itharr!" Shar said joyfully, and embraced him, covering his lips with her own.
"Some men," Belkram said, watching her weep and meeting one of Itharr's eyes 
through her hair, "are far luckier than they have any right to be." Then he 
discovered something must have gotten into his own eye. The world suddenly 
glimmered and blurred and a sound large and raw rose in his throat
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, early Midsummer Day
A crystal ball spun unheeded in a darkened room in the Tower of Mortoth. It 
flickered fitfully, then came to a sudden halt. As its inner glow died and it 
crashed to the privy chamber floor, a woman screamed nearby, high and 
despairing, and drowned out the sound of the crystal shattering
Tilverton, early Midsummer Day
A solitary lantern guttered outside the gates in the gray hour before dawn, but 
its light was enough to reveal the Purple Dragon emblazoned proudly on the 
wrinkled surcoat of a yawning sentry. The armsman came alert with a grunt and 
stepped back to lower the tip of his spear. Something small and sleek and dark 
slid around the gatepost.
He relaxed and gave it a grin. Surmalkin back from mousing and irritated at a 
lack of success, by the look of him.
"How now, little one?" the armsman growled, bending over fondly. The cat gave 
him a warning, defiant look and minced past. The guard watched him go. Grinning, 
the man leaned on his spear. It must be a nice, soft life, being a cat
Something that was strong and swift instead of nice and soft smashed him across 
the back of the head. He stumbled forward, dazedand was still gathering wits 
and breath to shout for aid when the same something took him by the throat. It 
wrung his neck.
Blood ran from the armsman's nose and mouth as the Malaugrym propped him against 
the gatepost, hooking the shoulder straps of his armor upon the gate so he 
seemed to be leaning on it, lost in slumber.
After that, it was the work of a few breaths to scale the crumbling stone walls 
of the mansion that served the visiting high and mighty of Cormyr as home in 
Tilverton. From its high site, Lorgyn could see the lamps of the town winking 
below as his tentacles pulled him onto the balcony. He slid easily into human 
form or at least, the appearance of an elegant old Cor-myrean courtier he'd 
once seen, but with hands like large, flexible webbed paddlesakin to the hind 
feet of a beaver. He glided into the room.
The small blue glimmering of the lady's ward spun her awake in alarm.
But he was already bending low over the bed and whispering, "Good morning, my 
dear. Alambrara, isn't it?"
With one of those broad hands, he smothered whatever reply she might have made. 
His iron strength held her down until her sudden struggles subsided.
When she fell limp under him and the tiny lightnings of her collapsing ward had 
finished jittering through him, Lorgyn checked that she yet breathed. She was 
alive.
He nodded in satisfaction and set about stripping away the gems she wore at her 
ears, throat, and ankles. Who knew what sort of tracing magic could be linked to 
the jewelry of a powerful war wizard?
Her own bedclothessoft samite sheets, no lessserved admirably to gag and bind 
her, and he was gone from the room before the first light of dawn broke the 
eastern sky, low beyond the gray walls of Tilverton.
Breaths later, that wan, rosy light fell upon the wagon marked "Pendle's Fine 
Meats." Lorgyn unlatched its side door and thrust his bundle inside.
It was his wagon now, he thought as he melted into the heavy, grizzled form of 
Pendle once more and undid the sheet that had covered his prize from the eyes of 
any overly curious early risers.
Carefully drawing the door closed, he tore the sheet into strips and bound the 
war wizard Alambrara beside the fat Amnian, Gorluth the Great. He chuckled at 
the contrast between the shapely limbs of the Cormyrean, the fat and hairy 
little mage from Amn, and beyond him, Irendue's slim beauty. She was awake, her 
eyes blazing at him over the gag that was her only garment.
Lorgyn winked at her as he tightened a lashing and stood back to survey the 
three naked people bound to the meat bars.
The beginnings of a fine collection. If more folk collected wizards thus, 
there'd be less trouble all over Faerun, to be sure. Still, he'd be needing more 
if a new gate were to be a truly lasting thing. Two gates, with a hidden one 
only he knew about, would be even more secure.
Two mages that would be easily found were Jhessail and Ulistyl, Knights based in 
Shadowdale.
Giving Irendue a cheery wave and miming the biting off of a finger (he'd 
devoured her thumbs thus far, while punishing her, and planned to make of her 
fingers a long-lasting snack), Lorgyn replaced the padlock that only he had a 
key for, and went to the next wagon to rouse his men. He wondered briefly how 
they could sleep through each other's snoring.
"Up, lads," he said, shaking and slapping with brisk enthusiasm. " Tis time we 
set off for Shadowdale. I think we're all due for a little rest and that's the 
place."
"Urggh," his cook said, "ye want dawnfry first?"
Lorgyn shook his head. The cook eyed him for a moment, then shrugged. Pendle 
never refused an early meal, even when it was only cold partridge from the night 
beforebut this was three days now
Lorgyn gave the man's back a soft smile, and resolved to eliminate him as soon 
as the wagon was rumbling along the last stretch, between Shadowdale and the 
Tower of Mortoth. Yesroasted alive on a spit in his own oversalty brown sauce 
would be fitting, too.
The gate guards were almost as sleepy and surly as his own grumbling men, but at 
last they did their work with bars and chains. Pendle's three wagons rumbled out 
of Tilverton, the first farers forth onto the road.
Even the horses complained as their burdens groaned and bumped along east toward 
Shadowdale. Pendle's men rode all around them with ready weapons and sleepy 
faces, wondering what madness had taken their master this time. Pendle smiled 
back at them all, and more than one man shivered at the soft promise in that 
smile.
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
The glimmer of the scrying portal faded as it sank into the shadows, spinning 
away into nothingness. The face above its dissolution was a mask of wiggling, 
questing worms, but owned eyes that blazed like two lanterns of raging 
spellfire. Worms beneath them parted, and a calm voice said to the vast, 
long-empty chamber of the Castle of Shadows, "It is time to move at last. Let 
the hunt begin in earnest."
Faerun, Shadowdale, Midsummer Day
The horn had cried out peace and parley, so the guards at the bridge over the 
Ashaba had not roused the folk of the tower in swift earnest. Lord Mourngrym and 
Lady Shaerl had been in the morning room over a leisurely dawnfry when their 
heralds brought word of the coming of a special envoy of Cormyr, Sir Tantor 
Dauntinghorn.
Just as they were, the lord and lady hastened down to the sward outside the 
tower, intent on welcoming the envoy and seeing to the needs of his large escort 
of Purple Dragons and war wizards.
With a glint in his eye, Mourngrym assured the stiff and magnificently 
mustachioed Sir Tantor that he was not now standing in a holding of Zhentil 
Keep, and that all minds in the dale were free of insidious Zhentarim spells. He 
thanked Cormyr for its obvious intent to do battle with the Zhent evil, given 
the handsome array of battle might and ready sorcery, come so long and dusty a 
way from the Forest Kingdom to Shadowdalestill proudly independent. He added 
that he hoped there would always be warm friendship between Cormyr and 
Shadowdalecoupled with mutual respect for each other's views, aims, and 
continued freedom.
The lord of the dale invited all of Cormyr into the Tower of Ashaba for a 
highsun meal as he made himself and his lady available to Sir Tantor, to hear 
the most important of messages and views from the Forest Kingdom.
The invitation was accepted. Bells rang to bring servants flooding into the 
feast hall just steps ahead of the hard-striding armsmen of Cormyrand transform 
the already-bustling kitchens into a frantic whirlwind of steam and rushing folk 
and shouts.
"Pray come up to my morning room," Lord Mourngrym said to Sir Tantor. He led the 
way up the stairs. Shaerl followed beside the envoy's personal escort, a senior 
war wizard, as they ascended from the tumult below.
"If we can speak bald truth for a breath or two" Mourngrym added as they 
stepped into a room still aromatic with the odor of buttered bread, sausages, 
roast pheasant in sauce, melted cheese with mustard on biscuits, and the other 
dishes of a light dawnfry, and he drew the door firmly closed "pray tell me 
plainly why you're here."
Sir Tantor drew himself up to his full height and growled, "My lord, this is 
most irregular! While a free and open exchange of views is"
"Mourngrym," said the old, gaunt war wizard standing at ShaeiTs side, "I am 
Luthtor of Suzail, empowered to speak to you with the voice of Azoun and the 
candor of Vangerdahast. We're here to investigate rumors of Elminster's death, 
to make sure Zhentil Keep hasn't gained control of, or influence over, this 
daleand to strongly put forth the sixtieth or so offer from Azoun that 
Shadowdale become a protectorate of Cormyr."
"My thanks for your candor," Mouragrym said dryly. "Let us gently refuse 
Cormyr's kind offer once more, at once, so that no unpleasantness need follow 
between us. I want to be Azoun's friendbut not his subject. He cannot have me 
continue as the one if he must insist on the other."
"Well, if v/e're being quite candid," Sir Tantor growled, "what's to stop us 
from simply seizing Shadowdale?"
"Me," Shaerl said sweetly. They all turned to stare at her. "I have Azoun's 
personal promise," she told them, "that I'd have a free hand in Shadowdale, and 
that no Purple Dragon nor war wizard of fair Cormyr would meddle east of the 
Ashaba until I gave them leave to do so."
"My lady," Luthtor said sternly, "you know very well that Azoun's word held only 
so long as you were on your promised mission for the crown a mission 
Vangerda-hast considers you abandoned on your wedding day, cleaving to this 
man"he bowed to Mourngrym"rather than your sworn duty."
"My lord," Shaerl said, her eyes gleaming with a dangerous light, "you are 
obviously unaware of the precise wording of Azoun's bidding and my promise, so 
I'll not argue the point with you. Be assured that if you move against us, Azoun 
will be foresworn."
"And if we know nothing of these ah, private words, and present the throne of 
Shadowdale to him anyway?" Sir Tantor huffed.
"It will be my duty to resist you," Mourngrym said, "and that of all the Knights 
of Myth Drannor."
"Their fame is not inconsiderable," the war wizard Luthtor granted. "But do you 
seriously think a handful of adventurers, however bold, can stand against the 
forces accompanying us? More than a dozen war wizards are watching over more 
than two hundred and sixty veteran armsmen in your feast hall right now."
"And just how long, Lord Luthtor," Shaerl asked sweetly, "do you think all of 
them would last against the Queen of Aglarond?"
Both Cormyreans paled slightly. The war wizard shrugged and asked, "And what 
evidence can you give us you can even contact her, let alone command her to 
battle at your bidding?"
"None," Shaerl said softly. "As with other armed endeavors in life, goodsirs, 
you'll just have to take that risk and find out the hard way. Or back down, as 
is far more prudent, and go home wondering for the rest of your lives if we were 
bluffing." She seemed to think of something, and added calmly, "Of course, the 
second way, you will have a'rest of your lives' to wonder in."
*Trforeover," Mourngrym said pleasantly, "the second way preserves our 
friendship, whereas the first loses forever any hope Cormyr may have that 
Shadowdale will not ally with Hillsfar, say, or Sembia, against the Purple 
Dragon."
"I " Sir Tantor seemed unsure of how to proceed. He looked quickly to Luthtor.
The war wizard nodded, smiled, and said, "Perhaps, indeed, we've speculated with 
extreme imprudence. Permit me to tender our deepest apologies, and pass on to 
the other matters we mentioned, to whit*
"What?" The envoy had turned a dangerous shade of purple. He glared at Luthtor, 
and snarled, "You're just going toback down? Abandon our mission, just like 
that? Well, be advised that my first recommendation, upon seeing Vangerdahast at 
our return, will be to repl"
"Enough of this," Shaerl snapped in tones that brought the envoy to instant 
silence. "Why don't we involve Azoun and Vangy in this discussion directly? I'd 
like to hear just what they intend." She held up one finger, and turned a ring 
upon it so that its black sapphire caught the light. It winked with a blue-white 
radiance as she stroked itand both Cormyreans stared at it in surprise.
Like two coldly leveled spears, Shaerl's eyes caught those of the war wizard. 
"Shall I speak to them myself, Lordor will Vangy stop merely listening through 
you, and have the grace to introduce himself?"
Sir Tantor stared again at the war wizard, and Mourngrym looked as if he were 
hiding a smile.
Luthtor sat very still, his eyes suddenly older and sadder than they had been. 
When he spoke, his voice was deeper and rougher than before. "Well played, li"
Suddenly the scene before them melted away into swirling mists of gold and gray, 
and left the two Malaugrym staring at the fetid insides of a dungeon.
"By the blood of Malaug!" Argast snarled, "is every spell you cast going to 
twist wild?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "I've another." He strode across the cavern and muttered an 
incantation, raising his hands to trace intricate gestures. The golden mists 
returned. They swirled around him for a momentand then turned into bunches of 
grapes and fell.
Argast watched the fruit splatter on the stone floor and cast a quick look 
behind him. The torch in its sconce blazed as before, and there was no watching 
helmed head nor shout of alarm. They were alone in the dungeons of the tower, on 
the worst guard duty one could draw unless one were really a Malaugrym, and 
wanted a little privacy for some spell-casting.
That is, if any spell would work. Amdramnar looked up from the grapes and 
muttered, "We don't have time to study that spell againhalf their talkingll be 
done before we're ready."
Argast growled in slow anger, and said, "Then it's time for you to take the 
shape of two guards for a while."
Amdramnar lifted a questioning eyebrow. His fellow Malaugrym was already 
blurring and dwindling until a rat blinked at him, winked once, and then turned 
to dash away into the darkness.
Amdramnar sighed, sat down, and stretched into the semblance of two bored guards 
sitting together on a crate, down here in the storage cavern. He arranged 
weapons and armor to conceal the place at the thighs where the two bodies were 
joined, and settled down to wait, hoping Argast wasn't making a fatal mistake.
A Gathering in Shadoojdale
From the dungeons, old and dusty rat holes led up to the pantry. In the 
confusion of all the cooks and scullery maids working in frantic haste and doors 
everywhere propped open to keep the heat down, the rat was able to streak 
through the kitchens and outside. The yard behind the tower was crowded with 
youngsters peeling potatoes and carting away greens, but no one noticed a rodent 
scuttling around the corner, into the tall grass.
In a trice, the rat became a pigeon, and ascended hi a flutter of wings to an 
open tower window.
The casement gave in to the end of a hall lined with tapestries, paintings, and 
closed doors. At the far end of the corridor, where it opened out into a meeting 
with other passages, daylight gleamed on the armor of a tower guard. The guard 
turned his head as the pigeon's wings blocked the sunlight, but Argast hastily 
landed on the windowsill. The guard gave the pigeon a glance, then looked away 
again.
It was sheer mischance that he yawned and looked back down the hall as the 
pigeon was rising up into a man.
"Hold!" the guard bellowed, leveling his spear as he broke into a charge.
Argast snarled in disgust and ducked behind the nearest tapestry, shifting shape 
as fast as he could.
All too soon a spear point thrust through the hanging, its point skittering 
along the stone wallbut the Malaugrym had shrunk down into a wadded mass by the 
floor to watch the spear strike sparks overhead. He surged upright as it 
withdrew. As he'd expected, it reappeared more cautiously, drawing the hanging 
aside. By then he was ready.
The guard found himself blinking at a buxom, very bare female the most 
beautiful woman he'd ever seen. He swallowed as she smiled at him, and blinked 
again as she held out her arms, beckoning
An inconspicuous taloned tentacle that had snaked across the floor rose up 
behind his head, reached around, and tore his face off.
Argast stared down at the twisted, blood-spattered body, satisfied the death had 
made little noise. But what now? If he posed as the guard, he'd be attacked if 
he left his post and was seen listening at doors and this body would be found 
soon enough. He positioned it against the wall behind the tapestry, using the 
spear as a prop, but anyone who even glanced into the passage was sure to see 
the bulge and the blood all over the floor.
He shrugged then, and became a rat again. They were only humans, after all
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Midsummer Day
Khelben looked up from his work, startled, as Laeral stiffened and laid a hand 
on his arm. "Malaugrym!" she snapped, eyes closed, and clutched at her forehead, 
listening to an inner voice. "Jhessail's found a guard murdered in the tower and 
suspects Malaugrym did the killing. He was torn by talons on an upper floor, 
where no beast could reach unseen and no strong magic has been worked lately"
The sending ended, and Laeral raised her head, her eyes grave.
"Aye, it would be in Shadowdale," Khelben said gloomily, reaching out to stroke 
her long, curly silver hair. "Have you never noticed: nothing much in Faerun 
happens anywhere else."
Laeral gave him a tight smile, but said nothing. She was already bustling about 
the room, gathering cloaks, wands, and boots.
Khelben stared down at his scribblings and litter of material components, and 
admitted to himself what they both already knew: his Malaugrym spell was going 
nowhere, right speedily. He pushed back from the table and sprang to his feet. 
"I'm not trusting teleporting in this, mind," the Blackstaff told his lady 
irritably.
"I know," she replied brightly. That's why I'm rushing about gathering things 
instead of being there already." She held out a wand.
Khelben stared down at it for a long, silent breath. Then the corners of his 
mouth curled up slightly, and he took it from her. Stepping into the boots she 
was holding ready, he took both their cloaks over his arm, strode without pause 
to the door, and held it wide. Laeral gave him a twinkling smile and brushed his 
cheek with a kiss as she went out.
One of their younger, newer apprentices, Paershym Woodstoke of Neverwinter, was 
trotting excitedly along a passage, his head down and a precious spell tome 
clutched in his hands. Its covers, two polished plates of ever-bright silver, 
flashed suddenly as the lord and lady mage of Waterdeep stepped out of a side 
door, spilling light into the dim hallway. They leapt across the passage like a 
pair of pranksome apprentices. With a softly spoken password, they opened the 
door of a closet that had to be tiny, crunched between two flanking rooms, and 
crowded into it together, giggling.
Lady Laeral winked at Paershym just before the door closed behind herleaving 
the apprentice, who'd halted to gape in astonishment, quite alone in the 
passage. He blushed a brilliant crimson and stared in disbelief at the closed 
door of the tiny closet. Slowly, almost reluctantly, he stole up to it and tried 
the handle. It was locked.
He turned away feeling almost relievedand stiffened as the doorknob behind him 
emitted a faint, girlish giggle.
Clutching the book very firmly, he hurried away, wondering how his father would 
take the news if he wrote a letter home explaining that he'd changed his mind 
about becoming a wizard
In a chamber deep within Twilight Hall, a lady laughed. "We've more than earned 
this, beloved," she purred to the person in the heart of the canopied bed. His 
reply was a wordless growl that left her gigglinguntil the closet door beside 
the bed burst open.
"Please excuse the intrusion," the lord mage of Waterdeep said gravely to the 
astonished Harper couple as he marched briskly across the room to the closed 
door of another closet.
Laeral mouthed, "Sorry," to the shocked faces above the covers, waved a 
farewell, and stepped into the closet behind Khelben.
There were a lot of dusty cloaks inside, and she sneezed more than once before 
Khelben found the catch on the secret door and led her on into a lightless 
passage that zigged, zagged, and opened into the back of yet another closet.
As the Blackstaff briskly opened the closet door, they saw a bored Harper guard 
sitting in the room beyond, sharpening his blade. No intruders ever got this 
far, after all, and
The guard sprang up as the wizards strode into the room. He waved his sword 
menacingly. "Halt, by the silver Harp and the blood spilled for it!" he charged 
sternlybut the two mages were already past him, heading for one of the doors 
across the room.
The Harper gaped. "But you'reyou're Khelben!"
The archwizard sighed. "Has the disguise spell failed again? Oh, dear " He 
rolled his eyes theatrically.
Laeral chimed in breathlessly, "We've tried everything"
As she spread her hands in despair, Khelben touched the door in a certain 
spotand it flared into a blinding glow. The Harper threw up his hand to shield 
his eyes, just in time to see the two mages fade away
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
In a room where shadows were rarely still, two tenta-cled things met, exchanged 
grunts of recognition, and rose into manlike forms.
"It's even worse than I'd thought," Hulurran said without preamble or greeting. 
"Since Dhalgrave was slain and the intruders first came, over sixty of the kin 
have perished or disappeared perhaps as many as seventy!"
"Seventy!" Gathran sighed gloomily. "Will we live to see the House of Malaug 
dwindle to nothing, and the shadowbeasts finally slither in to tear the last few 
of us apart?"
Hulurran shrugged. There's just one good thing," he said. "Milhvar was working 
on a cloak that shielded him from the prying magics of the mages of Faerun a 
'cloak of shadows,' he called it in his notes. If any-thing's befallen them, the 
secret of its making is gone with him."
"You saw his notes?" Gathran did not bother to hide his astonishment.
Hulurran smiled. "Milhvar was so old that he sometimes forgot that others of us 
have seen just as many years He hid some of his notesand the finished cloak; I 
saw him testing itin a hideaway Anduthil created for safe storage. Since 
Anduthil's passing, I believe he thought only he remembered its existence." He 
turned slightly, and made a gesture. "It's right here," he added, "and"
Hulurran fell abruptly silent. Gathran peered over his shoulder to see why. The 
hideaway was a small room with a cot, a chair, a desk, and a chamberpot. A few 
blank scraps of parchment were strewn on the desk, but the cotwhere his 
companion was probing emptinesswas quite bare. " Twas right here," Hulurran 
said, frowning, "and he wasn't wearing it when he met his endI saw him die."
"Then where is it?" Their eyes met and held in silence for a long while.
Hulurran sighed. "Let us hope one of us is wearing it in Faerun right now."
"A prudent one of us," Gathran agreed.
They both sighed then, and left that place.
When the world stopped whirling, they were sitting together on a bench in 
Shadowdale, with Elminster's Tower rising crookedly in front of themand a 
startled guard scrambling up from where he'd been lounging on the bench beside 
them. He swung his gleaming pike down.
Khelben calmly struck it aside and twisted it out of the armsman's hands.
Laeral said mildly, "Perhaps it's the clothes we're wearing"
"With all due respect, sir merchant," the guardcap-tain said firmly, "no one 
brings wagons into Shadow-dale without our looking inside them."
The paunchy, unshaven merchant glared at him. "Aye, I know your sort of 
searching. What's the point o' my coming all the way from fair Cormyr"one of 
his men gave him a strange look, and the guardcaptain almost smiled"if you 
steal half my stock, eh? Pendle's Fine Meats are known from Suzail to Selgaunt, 
and I'll be damned by all the gods if I let some uniformed thugs in a backwater 
dale rob me of what I've worked so hard for!"
"Then turn your wagons about, merchant, and go around Shadowdale," the 
guardcaptain said softly, his hand on his sword.
"This one's open, sir," one of the guards spoke out, pointing at the second 
wagon back. Without taking his eyes from the guardcaptain, Pendle grew a 
tentacle thirty feet long that snapped like a lash around the armsman's throat.
There was a collective gasp of horror and fear from men on both sides of the 
roadblock. The guardcaptain stared hard at Pendle as his sword flashed out. 
"What are you?" he asked, white to the lips.
Lorgyn smiled a wintry smile at him as two tentacles smashed the man's sword 
away, and a third rose with a bony spear to stab him in one eye. "I wondered 
when you'd get around to asking that," he said softly.
Men were screaming on all sides now. There was a general rush from the wagons 
into the woods. Pendle's outriders turned their horses and spurred westward as 
fast as the horses would go.
The Malaugrym reached out and calmly slew another man, and another, reaching 
always for those trying to flee or raising horns to arouse the dale. Some of the 
guards got their bows out, and arrows hissed and hummed. Lorgyn ignored them as 
he went on killing.
By the time all the guards were dead, lying twisted and broken in the road 
around him, the Malaugrym was feathered with many arrows. Heedless of the blood 
streaming from him in a dozen places, Lorgyn shifted to oxen form to drag the 
lead wagon aside; its draft horses had taken even more arrows than he had, and 
lay dead in the traces.
The wagon of wizards was all that mattered now. Lorgyn led the frightened horses 
past all the blood, into Shadowdale. The time for skulking was past now, let 
all in Faerun beware the Malaugrym, and cringe in fear!
"There it is again," Belkram said, pointing at Sharan-tyr's pack. "You'd better 
see what it is!"
The lady ranger set down her pack with more haste than grace, and drew her 
sword.
"I'll open it," Belkram offered, "and you keep blade ready, right?"
She nodded, and Itharr stood back to keep watch on the woods around as Shar bent 
over her pack. Something had quivered in its depths at least twice now. Belkram 
was cautiously turning out the kindling, her candles, her spare boots and 
undershift, her gloves "There!"
Two blades flashed downto hover above a small cloth bundle. "Lhaeo was holding 
that before we left," Shar said slowly. "What is it? And why would he put it in 
my pack?"
The tip of Belkram's blade touched it very cautiously. Then the ranger grinned, 
reached over, and unwrapped it, revealinga stone.
A ghostly vapor swirled up from it as it said, "Finally! Draw together, all of 
you, and bide here until I returnI only hope we're not too late!"
Open-mouthed, the three rangers watched Sylune of Shadowdale fly off through the 
trees.
"She can leave her stone?"
"Storm or Lhaeo must have worked some magic," Bel-kram said, grunting as he 
reached beyond comfort's stretch to pluck up Shar's gloves. "Let's get you 
packed again," he said. "When a mage tells you to stay together, she usually 
means it's teleport time."
Itharr nodded agreementthen they all gaped again as the air shimmered. The Red 
Wizard was standing before them again, Sylune's head floating above his open 
palm. He gave the three a curt nod of greeting.
The Witch of Shadowdale asked crisply, "Have we a bargain, then?"
Orth Lantar nodded again. "We do."
"Right. Know then that the Lost Ring of Blaestarn lies beneath the third 
flagstone south of the unicorn fountain, in the house where you've been 
searching; the white dragon Glandananglar is no more, and her treasure lies 
under her bones in a cave on the east side of Mount Ahaeraghits mouth is 
covered by an illusion, but lies below the tallest horn; and the ioun stones of 
Thavilar Halcontar are buried a long pace to the south of the duskwood tree in 
the northwestern corner of his garden. I'll tell you where the rest of the 
treasures lie after you've sent these three safely to Shadowdale."
The Red Wizard bowed. "It will be my pleasure to so serve." He raised his hands 
and began, and the three rangers saw a blue-white radiance stream from Sylune to 
surround his head and shoulders, steadying him against the magic twisting wild.
Soberly and carefully the Red Wizard worked a mass teleport spell, and the world 
began to whirl into blue-white mists.
"Holy Mystra, aid us," the three rangers heard Sylune say as the magic took 
effect.
Then the floating head of the Witch of Shadowdale gasped, and her ghostly eyes 
widened. "Wh-Who are you?"
"Midnight," came the reply, echoing in all their heads.
Sudden force flooded into Sylune; her fading spectral form flickered, and then 
grew strong and bright. "But you can call me Mystrafor so I am, henceforth."
Sylune gaped at a face only she could seeand beside her, the Red Wizard went to 
his knees, babbling a prayer.
He had not prayed to the Lady of All Mysteries since he'd been a young 
apprentice, and that had been very long ago.
The world danced, and the three rangers suddenly found themselves standing at 
the crossroads by the Old Skull Inn in Shadowdale, with startled armsmen and 
villagers staring at them from all sides.
They peered around, wondering why Sylun6 had been so suddenly adamant that they 
be here, now.
"Is that the Blackstaff?" Itharr asked, eyes wide. He pointed toward Elminster's 
Tower.
Belkram peered. "AyeI spoke to him once, and to Laeral several times; that's 
her, too, beside him."
Khelben Arunsun was casting a spellor rather, miscasting it. A shower of blue 
furry jungle plants abruptly rained down around him. He cursed loudly, like any 
merchant who's made a mistake, and strode toward the road. Two laborers, who 
were walking along it with heavy hods on their shoulders, looked back.
They let the hods fall, and boiled up into things out of nightmare.
A small forest of tentacles reached for folk all around, and the street became a 
chaos of screaming, fleeing people, with armsmen trying to wade through them. 
Tentacles grew many-fanged mouths and bit down mercilessly.
"Malaugrym," the three rangers shouted, breaking into a run.
Laeral hurled a spelland the two monsters were girt with an amber radiance, out 
of which darted dozens of butterflies.
Laeral stared in disgust at the clouds of insects, unbelted her robe, and let it 
fall to the turf behind her. Beneath it she wore a short kirtle bristling with 
daggers. Drawing one in either hand, she raced across the meadow toward the 
road, Khelben lumbering along beside her.
Horns were ringing out from the Tower of Ashaba, and armored men were streaming 
from its gatesmen who wore the Purple Dragon of Cormyr.
The Malaugrym were undulating along the road toward the three rangers. As the 
three hefted their blades and eyed reaching tentacles, they heard the deep, 
bubbling voice of one tentacled monster ask, "Argast, what's that?"
They all stared at what was rising up from the road in front of the towera 
gigantic black dragon, clutching a wagon in its claws!
"By all the blinded, crawling gods" Shar cursed in disbelief, watching the 
dragon spread its great wings. One beat sent it over the meadow, where it set 
the wagon down as tenderly as a newly laid egg. It banked and roared down at the 
crossroads, jaws gaping
Jhessail looked up sharply as a roar split the air outside. "What was that?" she 
snapped.
Illistyl beat her to the window. "Gods!" she gasped. "A dragon!"
Jhessail thrust her head past her apprentice's shoulder and glared out. "Out of 
nowhere? Impossible!"
She snatched something out of her bodice and tugged. A fine gold chain parted, 
and Jhessail held up a pendant that was shaped like a sphere, with windows 
enclosing a smaller windowed sphereand another, and yet another.
Illistyl stared at it. Elminster had given her that, and she'd never said what 
it was for
Jhessail thrust it out the window and whispered a single wordand the pendant 
was gone in a flash of spreading light that all but blinded them both.
The swooping dragon flashed with that same light, and was suddenly no huge black 
scaled wynn at all, but a small, manlike thing trailing tentacles as it fell 
from the sky.
Laeral leapt desperately out of the way as the twisting, changing thing crashed 
to earth.
Both Malaugrym hissed, "Lorgyn!"
Around the cursing lord mage of Waterdeep, spells were going awry in a 
continuous swirl of radiances and odd manifestations. Laeral scrambled through a 
shower of green lizards, the snapping fangs of Malaugrym tentacles close behind 
her.
"Gods," Sharantyr said, her face paling as the three rangers charged together, 
pounding along the road toward the two gigantic snake-things that were writhing 
and snapping in earnest now, crushing guards and sweeping horses and men into 
the air with their lashing tails, "Are we really going into that"?"
"Of course," Belkram shouted merrily. "We're reckless, crazed heroes, remember?"
"More than that," Itharr bellowed, "we're the Rangers Three!"
"The Rangers Three!" they shouted in chorus as their blades struck home.
The world rapidly became a place of constant slashing and hacking, with 
Malaugrym tentacles smashing and slapping from everywhere as armsmen shouted and 
died.
The lady mage of Waterdeep was stabbing with silver-bladed daggers, and 
Malaugrym tentacles were shriveling at their touch or cringing away before her. 
To avoid the bite of silver blades, the monsters began to hurl hapless armsmen 
and villagers at her, seeking to crush or suffocate her beneath broken bodies. 
Khelben stood over Laeral, the broken haft of a pike in his hands, trying to 
protect his lady against too many stabbing tentacles.
An annsman was flung through the air, his broken limbs flailing like smashed 
twigs. Sharantyr ducked under him, slashed aside one last tentacle, and drew 
back her blade to plunge it deep into one gigantic yellow Malaugrym eye.
Out of the eye burst Amdramnar's face, pleading: "Stay your blade, Sharantyr! 
Know that I love you"
Shar gazed at the Malaugrym in astonished horror, blade raised. She never saw 
the scorpionlike tail that rose behind her, lifting from a broken thing that had 
once been a dragon.
The bony spur stabbed downand burst out through the lady ranger's breast in a 
rain of blood.
Itharr and Belkram shrieked in horror and went mad with their blades, screaming 
and stabbing in all directions.
The lady ranger stiffened, and blood sprayed from her sagging lips.
A great roar of anguish rose over the fray as the monster that was Amdramnar 
cried, "No! Lorgyn, you fool! She was to be my mate! SharantyrF
Storm Silverhand was almost home from patrol now, and contentment welled up 
within her. The familiar woods rose green and deep around her. She did not 
hurry. Her boots followed trails she hadn't walked in a while, and chances to 
relax were few enough, these days.
A roaring sound rose into the air ahead, muffled by the trees. Storm frowned and 
stopped to listen. Were those shouts? Yes!
Shadowdale must t* under attack! With a soft curse, the Bard of Shadowdale drew 
her blade and broke into a trot, weaving through the trees as quickly as she 
could.
Laeral darted through a dancing chaos of tentacles, desperately stammering a 
healing spell. Too late.
The rearing tail of the Malaugrym thrust the limp lady ranger high into the air, 
then smashed her into the dust of the road. Again it rose, Sharantyr dangling, 
and again flung her down.
Itharr and Belkram all but clawed their way through a forest of writhing 
tentacles to get at that tail.
A tentacle struck Laeral. She rolled in the dust herself, slashing her way free 
and scrambling upto find the air in front of her shimmering! She drew back her 
hand to hurl a spell of searing destruction
But two white-faced women in robes appearedKnights of Myth Drannor. They raised 
their hands and snapped out incantations. Their magic twisted wild as they 
hurled it, and the tentacles swept down at them, too
"Here!" Laeral called. She tossed two of her silver-bladed daggers to the 
Knightswho fielded them expertly, waved in thanks, and set to work.
The Malaugrym Amdramnar was writhing under the blades of the two furious Harper 
rangers, and the other onethe one he'd called Argastwas shrinking into a 
xornlike beast with many massive clawed arms instead of tentacles. The shifting 
body of Argast was flickering with strange magics as Khelben Blackstaff 
struggled to control spell after spell hurled at the shapeshifter.
Itharr was weeping incoherently now. He stood hip-deep in a gory hole he'd 
hacked in Amdramnar, and stabbed down endlessly.
None of the armsmen of Connyr saw Storm Silver-hand burst out of the trees, 
running hard, but they all saw her swarm up the scorpionlike third Malaugrym and 
plunge her sword deep into ffne of its eyes. It shuddered and convulsed madly 
under her, and she grimly clung to it as she tumbled to the ground, one arm 
around Sharantyr's broken body.
"Burn it! Burn the things with oil!" she bellowed at the armsmen. She found her 
feet amid writhing ropes of shapeshifting fleshropes that rose to fling Khelben 
and Belkram together in a helpless tangle into the gathered armsmen.
The soldiers stared at Storm; who was this woman? An old woman staring at the 
fray from the door of the Old Skull suddenly tossed away her tankard, plucked 
down one of the lanterns from beside the inn door, and flung it.
It shattered, spilling oil down the tentacled bulk of Amdramnarand Illistyl 
murmured the simplest fire spell she knew.
Flames flared. The oil caught, boiling up with a roar. The Malaugrym convulsed 
and reared, shrieking, and the air was suddenly full of oil as every armsman 
scrambled to find and fling any lamps they could.
The Malaugrym shrieked as flames rose around them, and through the growing roar 
of the flames, Belkram cried, "Khelben! Can't you do something for Shar?"
He practically dragged the lord mage of Waterdeep to his feet. Khelben blinked 
at him, then said grimly, "Erehwell, 111 try."
The archwizard looked at Sharantyr's sprawled body and raised his hands to cast 
a spellonly to pitch forward, falling on his face in the dirt.
Belkram stared at the man whose pike had struck Khelben down from behind: a 
warrior of Cormyr, who smiled coldly, shivered slightly for an instant and 
became someone else.
Someone who wore doomstars at his wrist, and answered to the name of Dhalgrave.
We, the Ranges Three
Blue stones flashed and pulsed, spitting out beams that cut the air to strike 
Laeral and Storm. The two silver-haired women stiffened as blue fire raged 
around themand then fell limply to the ground, their eyes dark.
"With the Chosen out of the way," Dhalgrave said almost pleasantly, "I can 
really enjoy what I came for."
The Shadowmaster High ignored an armsman's sword that thrust through him, and 
when another warrior thrust a torch in his face, he grew a bone spur and 
casually stabbed the man through the face. All the while wearing that deadly 
smile, the senior Malaugrym advanced leisurely toward the weary, panting 
rangers.
Belkram and Itharr watched him come; they grimly stood their ground, leaning on 
battered blades. The three Malaugrym burned behind them, and from the flickering 
flames a weak voice called, "Shadowmaster High! Aid, please, in the name of 
Malaug! I'm burning! Great Dhalgrave, aid me!"
Dhalgrave never took his eyes from the two rangers, and never paused in his 
slow, menacing advance. Ar-gast soon fell silent and joined Amdramnar and 
Lorgyn in death.
Deep in the Castle of Shadows, in a place where thinking shadows glided, was a 
grotto. At its heart were two stone seats that faced each other in the 
bone-white glow. On one of them, something blazed briefly, then burst.
A hand promptly reached down out of darkness to pick up the largest of the 
fragments and sweep the seat clean and a soft chuckle echoed through the 
grotto.
Dhalgrave stopped just beyond the reach of the two weary rangers and smiled a 
gloating smile at the fearful warriors, noting many Purple Dragon surcoats. "All 
the way from Cormyr, just to die?" he asked in mock sorrow, shaking his head.
From among the warriors, lightning lashed at the Malaugrym, and on his other 
flank something that looked like a white mist driven by churning human bones 
rose and drifted speedily toward him.
Dhalgrave simply watched those deaths come for him. The spells faded away as 
they reached him, and he sketched a mocking bow.
"My thanks, Ladies," he said. "Jhessail and Illistyl, isn't it?" He gestured 
lazily down at himself. "Unfortunately for your valiant endeavors, I wear a 
cloak of shadows that wards all your spells and hides me even from the Chosen. 
I had to'die' for a time to get it, but watching my underlings scramble to try 
to take my throne was richly entertaining compensation."
The doomstars lashed out again, and four armsmen were hurled back against their 
fellows, their bodies trailing blue fire. Blades fell from their hands blades 
that shone with silver. Sir Tantor Dauntinghorn peered at the dead and trembled 
with anger, reaching for his own blade.
"No, envoy, keep your life," the Malaugrym told him. "I shall need your services 
to inform Azoun that the
Purple Dragon throne is mine now. My realm will take in Sembia, too, of course 
but you won't be bored. Ill be sending all the brave warriors of both lands 
against Zhentil Keepand none of you shall rest, nor fail me, until that city 
and all its folk are eradicated."
He took another slow pace forward. "Before all of that, however, I must attend 
to the business that brought all of the blood of Malaug lately to Faerun a 
little matter of revenge."
Dhalgrave looked at Belkram and Itharr and smiled again. "Your deaths will be 
slow," he said softly, "very slow." A frown crossed the handsome human face he 
wore, and he asked the world at large, "I wonder if I can transform them to 
mushrooms, as that woman did?"
He raised his hands slowly, nodding in sudden satisfaction, and said, "Yes!"
The doomstars hummed, dimmed, and grew still. The Malaugrym began the gestures 
of a spelland the two Harper rangers erupted into a last desperate charge, 
swinging their blades as they came.
The cloak Dhalgrave wore spoke.
"Yes, indeed," it agreed, and two gnarled old hands grew out of it on the 
shapeshifter's flanks, and dug fingers deep into Dhalgravefingers that blazed 
with spellfire!
The Malaugrym screamed. His hands faltered, the doomstars winking wildly, and 
the hands literally tore him apart.
Dhalgrave convulsed, struggling to throw out a tentacle here and an eyestalk 
there amid the spreading spellfireand as the two Harpers came to hasty halts, 
blades held ready, the Malaugrym sported the long, jagged jaws of a crocodile 
for just a moment before collapsing into a swirling cloud of ash. What remained 
was a raging, man-high column of spellfire, with the hands that had slain 
Dhalgrave protruding from it.
The doomstars spun and winked by themselves in midair for a breath, then drifted 
obediently into one of those old, waiting hands.
As they settled, all of the spellfire seemed to roar down into themand burst in 
a flash that made unwary men cry out and clutch at their eyes.
Those stricken did not see the beams that lanced out from the destruction of the 
doomstars to touch Storm, Laeral, and Khelben, and awaken them to vibrant life.
As the Bard of Shadowdale came unsteadily to her feet and reached down to help 
her sister up, a familiar voice said disgustedly, "Do I have to do everything 
myself, look ye?"
"Elminster!" Laeral cried delightedly.
The Old Mage puffed one last time on his pipe before calmly tapping out its 
coals onto the ash that had been the Shadowmaster High.
"But youyou died!" Mourngrym said, laughing, as he shouldered through the 
armsmen, Shaerl at his side.
"Reports of my death," the Old Mage said solemnly, "have beenahemgreatly 
exaggerated."
The scrying portal shook as Hulurran's rage almost ended his control over it. 
"No!" he snarled, but the other two who stood in the shadows with him kept 
silent. One of them laid a silent tentacle against his cheek for a moment.
After they'd stood staring into Faerun for a long time, Gathran stirred.
"If we could get that cloak," he began, "we"
He fell silent again as, below, Elminster stirred the ashes, held up a tattered 
scrapand firmly burned it to nothingness with a jet of spellfire from his 
finger.
"By the blazing blood of Malaug," Hulurran raged in a voice that trembled with 
emotion, "111 never rest un"
"Hold your wind!" snapped the youngest and smallest of the Malaugrym. "This 
disaster is born directly of reckless overconfidence even on my father's part."
Huerbara's eyes blazed with resolve as she scattered the scrying portal with one 
slim tentacle. "We must not actwe must never actagainst folk of Faerun until 
we are strong, and prepared even for the unexpected. Revenge can be won, yes 
but it may take years. We must rebuild the House of Malaug first. To do it, 111 
need your help."
"You?" Hulurran asked, slack-jawed in disbelief.
Gathran, however, said quietly, "Command me, daughter of Ahorga."
Huerbara nodded to him before turning to the elder shapeshifter. "Are you with 
me also, Hulurran of the Winds?" The query was soft with menace.
After a long silence, Hulurran nodded. "Aye. Aye, you have fire enough to be 
Shadowmaster High. I am yours." He turned to meet her gaze squarely, and added, 
"But we must move very carefully, lest our house be torn apart by strife between 
you and rivals for the throne."
"Teach me, then," Huerbara said to them both, gliding nearer, "how to move very 
carefully"
"Lady, we will," they agreed in chorus, and three sets of eager tentacles met 
and entwined.
The folk in Shadowdale fortunate enough to survive the events of that morning 
had seen wonder upon wonder but there were still gasps and mutterings and a 
shrinking back as a ghostly, silver-haired head came floating over the grass. 
Gawking dalefolk and weary Cormyreans alike melted out of its path, and stared 
at the three naked, bedraggled folk who followed it.
"It seems one of the Malaugrym was collecting wizards," Sylun6 told Elminster. 
"And as both you and Mystra seem to be back with us, we'd best be using these 
three to bring Sharantyr back."
The Old Mage stared searchingly at the short, fat man and the two women, and 
they all nodded their agreement. Jhessail and Illistyl pushed through the crowd, 
and Sir Tantor was jostled aside by Lord Luth-tor, firmly leading a line of war 
wizards.
"What did you say?" Itharr hissed to Sylune.
Belkram put an arm around his shoulder. Weeping, the rangers watched Khelben, 
Laeral, and even Storm join the circle of wizards. The mages joined hands around 
Sharantyr's broken body, then looked to the Old Mage.
Elminster said softly, "Do it."
For a breath or two, it seemed nothing was happening. In silence the wizards 
stood, unmoving, as warriors craned their necks to look. Next came gasps here 
and there as folk noticed the radiance silently forming in the air above the 
circle. Small motes of light twinkled, grew, and shone more brightly. Swiftly 
the light swelled until a great sphere of white radiance blazed above the 
wizards.
They heard Elminster and Khelben grunt in unisonand a shaft of light stabbed 
down from the sphere to strike the still form of Sharantyr.
The wizards trembled, and on the bodies of the three unclad mages the watchers 
could see sweat streaming. The wizards strained as the beam slowly rose from the 
ground, taking the lady ranger's body with it.
Through their tears the two Harpers held each other, wild hope leaping within 
them, and saw the body of their lady disappear into the light.
One of the war wizards cried out, and slumped over, but Luthtor firmly held one 
of his hands and Irendue clung like grim death to the other, and the circle was 
not broken. The mages wavered. More than one sagged to his knees, but held fast 
to the hands of the chain.
Then a great, collective gasp went up from them, the light faded, and out of its 
heart something sprang.
Something soft and shapely and wholeand alive!
Sharantyr fell from the sky as naked as the day she was born, and something 
seemed to boost her abruptly sidewaysof all the assembly, only Mourngrym saw 
El-minster's momentary grinin her fall, so that she landed, heavily, atop 
Belkram.
He went to the ground with a startled "Whumpf!" A moment later, Itharr, Belkram, 
and Sharantyr were rolling over and over in a happy embrace, weeping and kissing 
and laughing for joy.
Khelben looked down at them and frowned. "Must they?" he complained to his lady. 
"And her without a stitch on, too!"
Laeral grinned happily up at the lord mage of Water-deep through the sweat 
glistening on her faceand bowled him over with her own sudden embrace.
"Whumpf!" Khelben said as he hit the ground. "Get off!" he shouted when he had 
breath enough to speak again. Grinning faces of armsmen and dalefolk surrounded 
him. "I said get off!"
Shadowdale, Midsummer Night
The fire spat sparks in the kitchen hearth, and Sharantyr put her bare feet up 
on Storm's kitchen table, crossed one shapely ankle over the other, and sighed 
in satisfaction. A huge tankard of strong home brew was ready at her elbow, and 
she was leaning back against Belkram. Itharr smiled and reached out a hand to 
stroke her foot.
"Ann," Sharantyr said happily, "all this, and we're done with the Malaugrym for 
now, too!"
"We are," Storm agreed. "Elminster rode the shadows through their castle this 
afternoon, and tells me it is a place of confusion and back-stabbing disorder. 
Only three of them know what befell here, and plan any sort of revenge."
"Oh, joy," Belkram said, raising his tankard.
"Oh, joy, indeed," Storm said with a smile, turning from her cooking cauldron 
and crossing her arms. Itharr decided not to tell her that her ladle had decided 
to drip all down her hip. "That means, Harpers bold," she continued briskly, 
"that it's time for your next assignment."
Belkram choked, and brought his tankard down onto the table with a crash as he 
sputtered and coughed. There were titters from some of the other Knights at the 
table.
"Which is?" Itharr asked, giving his companion an amused look.
Storm noticed the spill, ran a finger up her hip, and licked it. "Aid embattled 
Randal Morn in Daggerdale," she told her ladle.
"A simple matter," Belkram said with airy dignity.
"Well, after battling Malaugrym, aye," Mourngrym agreed, "but you'll no doubt 
have the lord-devouring Sir Tantor and Luthtor's war wizards to contend with." 
Shaerl dealt her lord's shoulder a mock blow, and he put an arm around her with 
a chuckle.
"Does this mean your students are taught, and they'll be leaving Shadowdale?" 
Sharantyr asked quietly.
Storm nodded. "It does."
Sharantyr swung her feet down from the table and stood up. "Then I have to tell 
all of you something." She looked around the table at the assembled Knights, 
from Florin and Dove at one end to Jhessail and her new apprentice, the shyly 
silent Irendue, at the other. "Whether it costs me my place among you or not, I 
will go with Belkram and Itharr because"her voice sank almost to a whisper, 
but she stared across the room at Elminster's encouraging smile, where he sat in 
a dark corner, and continued steadily"I can't bear to be parted from them."
And as the room erupted with cries of "Well said!"
"Of course!" and "A Knight forever, wherever you go!" the tears came.
Sharantyr leaned on the table and wept until two pairs of strong arms went 
around her, and Belkram and Itharr said into her ears in unison, "The Rangers 
Threeforever!"
The crystal ball glimmered, and Laeral turned away from it with misty eyes and a 
sigh of satisfaction. "She did the right thing," the lady mage of Waterdeep told 
Khelben happily. "She's following her heart."
"That's nice," Khelben said absently, his attention deep in a spell tome. Laeral 
looked at him, shook her head fondly, and grinned impishly as she rose.
Three gliding steps brought her to the table, and a little jump and turn brought 
her behind down firmly atop the open book, even before her arms went around her 
man in a fierce embrace.
She fondly kissed the balding pate of the lord mage of Waterdeep, and felt his 
muffled roar as he snarled into her bosom, "Get off! I said, get off!"
It was very late when the floating, disembodied head said to Elminster, "You 
promised me another body of my own, Old Mage."
"Aye," he said as they stood together in the dusty, paper-choked main room of 
his tower. "Would n"
The front door flew open, startling them both, and a wild-eyed woman, garbed in 
the black tatters of a once fine gown, strode in. Without slowing, the Simbul 
smiled at Sylune, took Elminster's hand in her own, and practically snatched him 
up the stairs to the bedchamber.
"My body?" Sylune asked softly.
"It will be the first act I set him to when we awaken," the Simbul told her 
sister as they vanished around the first curve of the stair. "I'll see to it."
"Perhaps I should get to it now," Elminster's voice came floating down the 
stairs, sounding a trifle anxious.
"I have other uses for you first," the Simbul told him fiercely. "Gods, El, I've 
missed you!"
Her arms went around him hungrily. In the room below, Sylune listened, a smile 
growing on her face. Then she chuckled softly, and flew out into the night.
Lhaeo bid her a pleasant night as she drifted down the path. The floating head 
turned to face him. "Lhaeo? I thought you were abed!"
"I was," Elminster's scribe said dryly, "until the Queen of Aglarond arrived. 
Then I suddenly found myself dressed, awake, and out herewith this bottle of 
elverquisst to keep me company." He sipped at the glass in his hand and sighed 
appreciatively. "Superb stuff."
Sylune hesitated, looking out over the moon-drenched, placid pool toward the 
flickering torches on the walls of the Tower of Ashaba. "Would you mind if I 
stayed to talk for a bit?"
The scribe looked up at her. "Lady," he said softly, "I would be honored. Stay 
with me so long as it pleases you." He drained his glass and added slyly, "You 
can tell me what it's like to get a head in this world!"
The floating head growled at him. "You may be surprised to learn," the Witch of 
Shadowdale said sweetly as she drifted nearer, "that I can still tickle."
"Ah, no," Lhaeo said with a groan, putting his glass carefully out of harm's 
way. "No"
The farmhouse shook, and the night outside was briefly as bright as day.
"What was that?" Mourngrym snarled.
There was a confused snatching at weapons and a rush to the door.
The Rangers Three, Storm, and the lord and lady of Shadowdale reached the 
flagstone path outside Storm's house in time to see a bright stream of stars 
rising from Elminster's Tower, in the wake of a radiant orb in which two 
familiar figures danced and swam. They heard a happy, wordless cry before the 
sphere that held Elminster and the Simbul turned suddenly and streaked away 
northward, into the stars.
"Gods above," Itharr said wonderingly. He turned his head and saw Sharantyr's 
awed face looking up into the sky beside his. Leaning close, he asked quietly, 
"Do you think we could try that?"
Still watching the distant sphere dwindle into the night, Sharantyr drew back 
her arm and punched him enthusiastically.
Shaerl and Storm hooted with laughter.
The moonlight of another night washed down over the ruined pillars and walls of 
Irythkeep. Itharr looked up at Selune, yawned, and said, "High time for 
slumber."
A slim lady rose from banking the fire beside him, took his chin in her hands, 
and kissed him fondly. "The *.watch is mine, of course, O King of Snorers," the 
Witch of Shadowdale told him, and patted his arm. "Go on."
"Are you sure?" Belkram asked sleepily, coming out of the tent with Sharantyr's 
leathers and his own, to drape them over a line for the night.
"I don't need to sleep, remember?" Sylune told him.
Both Harpers nodded, more asleep than awake, and said, more or less in chorus, 
"May the night be good, then." They turned together to go into the tent where 
Shar was already lost in slumberand bumped together.
"Ugliness first," Belkram said, indicating the tent mouth.
"Stupidity first," Itharr countered, waving his friend toward the sleeping furs.
"Pigheaded Harpers first," a smiling Sylune said in both their ears, and shoved 
at their backs. They fell into the tent in a chuckling heap, and the Witch of 
Shadowdale turned away to look out over Daggerdale, a smile on her face.
"Sharantyr's first child, at least," Azuth said softly as the two gods stood 
together by the fire, magically hidden from mortals and Chosen, "will be thine."
Midnight nodded. "She'll need to be strong, and soon magic may be biddable 
again, and the gods back in their places."
The goddess sighed then, and added almost in a whisper, "More than that: 
Elminster cannot last forever."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
All characters in this book are fictitious. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.
This book is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc.
All TSR characters, character names, and the distinct likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc.
Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book trade for English language products of TSR, Inc.
Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd.
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Cover art by Fred Fields.
FORGOTTEN REALMS is a registered trademark owned by TSR, Inc. The TSR logo is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc.
First Printing: October 1995
Printed in the United States of America.
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 94-61677
987654321 ISBN: 0-7869-0302-3
TSR, Inc.
201 Sheridan Springs Rd.
Lake Geneva, WI 53147
U.S.A.
TSR Ltd.
120 Church End, Cherry Hinton
Cambridge CB1 3LB
United Kingdom
To Jenny, for literally everything.
cha mhisd'a thig dhuit am boidag
Away, Shadows, away! I grow tired of slaying thee . ..
and presently I shall grow angry. Then you'll be sorry!
The Simbul, Queen of Aglarond
Said in spell-battle before all her court
Year of Shadows
PRologue
Three living heroes and a ghost dared to take an enchanted blade out of the world, hunting shapeshifters in their ancient Castle of Shadows. . . .
For centuries, the Malaugrym had been dark figures of legend, fey sorcerers who could take any shape they chose. They came to Faerun to impersonate kings and reavers and archmages, to entertain themselves with the havoc they could wreakand to seize mortal women as breeding slaves, carrying them off across the planes to the place they called Shadowhome.
When the famous archmage Elminster of Shadow-dale caught Malaugrym in Faerun, they paid with their lives. Twice he journeyed to the Castle of Shadows to humble the House of Malaug . . . but no mere mortal had ever made such a foray and returned to Faerun to tell of it.
Until Lady Sharantyr, Knight of Myth Drannor; Bel-kram and Itharr of the Harpers; and the ghostly remnant of Sylune, Witch of Shadowdale, went up against the shapeshifters armed with the Sword of Mystra. And with that sword, Sharantyr cut her way back from the brink of death and out of the Castle of Shadows, slaying many of the evil shapeshifters as she went.
Unfortunately, most of them still lived, and vowed revenge on four new foes. More entered Faerun with the returning heroes and escaped to wander the
En GREENWOOD
Realms at will.
Even worse, Faerun was much as they'd left it: in the throes of the magical chaos, bloodshed, and lawlessness of the Time of Troubles, when the gods themselves walked the Realms, no magic could be trusted, and fire and fury raged across the lands.
It was a time for heroes, and the four who'd escaped the Castle of Shadows found Elminster, the Old Mage, waiting for them, with orders to undertake still more perilous tasks in the desperate work of saving civilized Faerun.
And the Malaugrym were waiting for them, too.. . .
If Begins with a Flame
Faerun, Daggerdale, Kythorn 20, Year of Shadows
The wind rose and whistled through the stones of a roofless, ruined manor house on a grassy hillside in Daggerdale. The trampled slope was strewn with tenta-cled, jellylike, eye-studded nightmare bodies.
Three weary, wild-eyed rangers and a ghostly lady hastened up the hill from the monsters they'd slain, running like starving men to a banquet table. They hurried toward a man who sat in the ruins.
The gaunt, white-bearded old man sat on what was left of a crumbling wall and serenely smoked a pipe. He looked at them all, smiled, and spat out this smoke belcher. It rose smoothly upward to float by his ear, spouting wisps of smoke that curled away to be lost in the quickening breeze. *Te deserve congratulations for one thing, at least," he announced.
After the silence had begun to stretch, Itharr sighed and asked in tones that were just respectful, "And what, Lord Elminster, would that be?"
"Keeping thyselves alive," Elminster told him dryly.
"I heard an 'at least' in there," Sylune put in. Her silvery tresses hung still around her eerily translucent face despite the gusting wind. Beside her, the blood-spattered lady ranger Shar shot her an amused look
ED GREENWOOD
through her own wind-whipped hair.
Elminster glared severely at the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale. "There is a little matter of bringing a trio or more of Malaugrym into Faenin, and allowing'them to wander off untraced and untrammeled, to work their wanton wills across the land."
" *Work their wanton wills' ... I like that; 'twould fit nicely into a purple Harper ballad," Sylune replied serenely. "My choice, Old Mage, was between the lives of these three heroesnay, no wincing, now; they've more than earned the titleand those of a few shapeshifters. / think my decision was the right one . . . and if you disagree so strongly, why did you not take action yourself? You must have been here watching us."
"Been here, aye. Watching, no," the Old Mage replied, eyes on the hillside below themwhere, at his magical bidding, the horribly distorted bodies of the Malaugrym were rising into the air and catching fire. "I was tossing meteor swarms over the turrets of Telflamm, half a world away."
"By the gods, the bardic phrases keep flowing, like . .." The ghost sorceress paused meaningfully.
"Nightsoil from a hurled bucket?" Belkram offered helpfully.
Sylune rolled her eyes and continued, "And your reason for this . . . ah, fiery behavior?"
El grinned. "I was feeding a wild magic area to make it grow into a shield against Red Wizards ... so I could turn my attention closer to home."
Belkram caught the first whiff of burning flesh and spun around, raising the gory daggers he held ready in both hands. Seeing the source of the smell, he relaxed. A certain grim satisfaction grew on his face as he watched the bodies of their foes burn. Sharantyr gave the midair cremation a single quick glance and turned her gaze back to the Old Mage.
"I know you well enough, Elminster," she said levelly,
4
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"to know that such words always lead us to another of your 'little tasks'. . . and I'd appreciate knowing what this one is without a lot of clever tongue-fencing. Several Malaugrymone in particularhave about used up my patience for today." As she stared challengingly at the Old Mage, Shar flexed her aching jaw. Her mouth, scorched by a Malaugrym tentacle whose foul taste she could still remember, was throbbing painfully, and her tongue was a thick, numb thing.
As her companions looked at the usually merry Shar in surprise, Elminster inclined his head and said, "Plain speaking is wise in any case, Lady Knight. Know, then: thy swords and spellsand all of ye, with themare urgently needed in the coming defense of Shadowdale. I'm here to send ye where ye're most needed in that fight."
"The Zhentarim?" Sylune asked shortly. It was more statement than question.
As if her words had been some sort of cue, the world around them was suddenly a cold place of endlessly streaming white flames, and her companions stood frozen amid the conflagration. The last thing the Witch of Shadowdale heard was Elminster's disgusted cry: "Ah, no! Not again!" And then his tattered words were whirled away from her, and all that was left was the ceaseless roaring. . . .
After what must have been a very long time, Sylune knew herself again. She was all that was left of the woman widely known as the Witch of Shadowdale. .. .
She was Sylune. Still a ghost. . . and still in Faerun. Hanging in the heart of the roaring.
All around her, flames that did not burn streamed endlessly past her motionless friends and the crumbling stones of the manor. But she could move and think . . . though the cold white flames made her
ED GREENWOOD
tremble uncontrollably as they roared through her.
Sylune found she could move, if she bent her will hard to the doing. Let us be doing, then.
With slow determination, she drifted nearer the Old Mage, sitting motionless on his bit of wall. His hands were uplifted and his lips open, wearing the disgusted frown of his realization that whatever it was had caught him again.
So they were in some sort of trap. A magical trap, though its flameswhich didn't seem to harm anythinghad withstood the wildness of magic stalking Faerun for some time; it seemed. Some of the wildflowers growing amid the stones had bloomed and withered since the magic had begun. The companions had been here for days, then. Sylune wished she could sigh. I've not been a ghost long enough to learn patience for waits that may well take years.
She looked at the Old Mage's pipe, still floating beside his head where he'd left it, and saw that the flames bent around it.
They seemed to be avoiding it! Sylune stared at the spell-flames narrowly for a time; they boiled up out of nowhere on one side of the ruins, arced over her frozen companions, and then returned in an endless rush to nowhere on the far side of the broken walls. It was some sort of stasis field that avoided Elminster's small, curved, ever-smoking pipe.
So, the pipe yet radiated its own magicand floated on its own, not frozen by the flames. She frowned. He'd once been able to teleport with it, hadn't he?
She drifted nearer, noticing faint wisps of smoke curling up out of the pipe bowl ever so slowly and rising to mingle with the onrushing flames.
She eyed it. This was probably going to hurt.
Mystra, if any part of you is still around to hear, she thought firmly, aid me now. And with the resolve still strong in her, she surged forward, thinning a part of her essence into the pipe.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Magics swirled and tore at her, defenses against tampering that bore Elminster's trademark spell-upon-spell interlacing. Gods, the pain!
Whirling around in a silent scream, Sylune found that the pipe could teleport vapor in and away, in an endless cyclegiving her an escape whenever she wishedand could also transport anyone who touched it and willed it, thus, from place to place.
Elminster sat frozen, but perhaps she could guide the pipe to him . . . yes! That very movement was a direction he'd given the pipe several times recently, so how to do it was displayed right in front of her!
Sylune swirled around the pipe and moved it down toward the Old Mage's mouth. The flames bent away from her, and grim satisfaction rose within her as she made the slow, drifting journey. This was going to work!
At last the pipe touched the Old Mage's lips, but he sat open-mouthed, unmoving, and she could feel no quickening of will within him, only the endless roaring. The magic was binding his wits, then. Of course it must be, or he'd have used spellfire to drink it down to nothingness long ago. Sylune wanted to sigh again.
Perhaps she could force a teleport byoh, gods, this might well be the last thing she ever did, the last moment she knew.
Farewell, Faerun, Sylune thought, and flowed back into the pipe. She must will it to take the Old Mage away from here, to the meadow. The meadow where Sharantyr had danced about with a glowing sword in the depths of the nighta lifetime ago, it seemedin the meadow just over there.
And then white flames roared up between her ears and up her throat and the world exploded, whirling her away.. . .
ED GREENWOOD
Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 15  
"I have seen enough shadow weaving and clearing away of dead kin and rubble to last me many an eon," the gigantic horned worm declared in a voice that echoed in the far corners of the cavernous room, "and Shadowhome is rebuilt sufficiently to set my gorge at easefor now."
With a rattle of huge chitin plates, he glided into the dim, shadowed chamber, and there dwindled into a bald, long-tailed, gray-scaled humanoid. Othortyn of the Malaugrym eyed his minions, a pair of tentacled lesser kin who peered into the flickering, floating light of a scrying portal at the center of the chamber. Othortyn shifted his tail and asked irritably, "So how've you two been wasting your time?"
"Watching what befalls in the world of the humans," Inder said boldly, "as you commanded." His quiet companion, Hastrim, nodded but said nothing.
"And what have you found?" Othortyn asked, settling himself on a crumbling stone throne that was almost as old as he.
"The ambitious humans who dwell in Zhentil Keep, bolstered by their godor one who claims to be Bane have gone to war," Inder said in a voice swift and shrill with excitement. "They've sent four armies into adjacent lands, the largest by road into Shadowdale . . . where the Great Foe dwells."
"And what befell this force sent against Elminster?" Othortyn asked quietly.
"Some local human mage called down lightnings and cooked many in their armor . . . and then the Foe turned a few thousand into boulders while they were camped at a place called Voonlar. No doubt he planned to transform them all, but"
Othortyn blanched. "Mass transformation? You dare to tell me that the Great Foe can turn whole armies into toads? I've not heard that sort of nonsense since I
ALL SHADOWS FLED
was a youngling and pranksome elders tried to scare me with wild tales of human wizards!"
Inder met his master's gaze steadily. "Didn't you believe those tales?" he asked quietly.
Othortyn glowered. "So, just how many spells, oh wise apprentice, do these wizards hurl around that I don't know about?" he asked, voice heavy with sarcasm. As he eyed the younger Malaugrym, his tail curled out to open a door that had been secret for long years. He took out a dusty bottle from the dark niche beyond.
Inder shrugged. "Several thousand, perhaps."
"So, with all this magic to hurl about, reshaping worlds," Othortyn snarled, the end of his tail rearing back and lengthening into a hollow stinger, "why did oh-so-mighty Elminster stop making his rocks before the whole host was done?"
Inder frowned as his master pierced the cork of the bottle and drank deeply. The apprentice said, "His spellas would any mighty magic, we believecreated an area of wild magic . . . which is still spreading. A wizard would see such a thing as the greatest danger of all, and would do nothing to aid its spreadnor dare to risk himself in its vicinity."
"So the Great Foe did not confront his own foes directly," Hastrim added, "fearing for his skin."
"He turned instead to the other armies, where only lesser mages stood against him," Inder continued, "and"
"Speak no more of the Foe," the old Shadowmaster said sharply. "What has become of our kin who reached Faerun?"
"Atari, Yinthrim, and Revered Elder Ahorga survived the battle with the three accursed humans who came here," Inder said in more sober tones, "and seem to be roaming Faerun in many shapes, learning its ways and uses."
"Others of our house have found their own, separate ways into Faerun," Hastrim added. "We have scryed
ED GREENWOOD
Bralatar and Lorgyn, and seen one other, whom we believe to be Lunquar, get of Byatra. . . ." His voice trailed away, and there was a little silence.
"Is that all?" Othortyn growled. "I thought Jaster had gathered a dozen or more eager younglings around him!"
"He did," Inder said quickly, "but when Starner came to you with word that the Great Foe was caught in the loop trap you cast at their gate, you told him to gather all kin with spells to spare and make haste to"
"Blast all who defy me!" Othortyn roared, and lightning leapt from his eyes like two darting white flames, roaring across the chamber to swallow up Inder and the scrying portal with him.
Hastrim staggered back with a startled sob as his companion and their spell vanished into wisps of curling smoke.
"I did tell you, Inder, not to mention the Great Foe again," Othortyn said chidingly. Then he turned his head from the drifting smoke and said politely to Hastrim, "Please continue with the exposition of events that Inder so abruptly abandoned . . ."
Hastrim stared at him in stunned silence, face pale. Muscles rippled around his mouth as he fought for calm.
"Feel free to be as clever as you feel necessary," the old Shadowmaster said soothingly.
Hastrim looked at Othortyn, and then his gaze fell again to regard the greasy curls of smoke that had been Inder. He swallowed.
"Well," he said unhappily, "perhaps it would be best to begin when it was first noticed that three humans bearing a magic swordhad somehow stepped from Faerun into the heart of Shadowhome . . . undetected."
"Good, good," the old, bald Shadowmaster said encouragingly, opening another bottle. "Would you like something to drink?"
"Er" Hastrim began, and then added with sudden
1O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
firmness, "Yes," and a long, snakelike tentacle put a dusty bottle in his hand.
*****
Faerun, Dagger-dale, Flamerule 15
"Easy, lass," a familiar voice rumbled as Sylune" of Shadowdale slowly blinked her way back into awareness. " Twas well done, to be sure. Ye shattered a spell loop, a very nasty Malaugrym magicand there were a dozen of them waiting with all the spells they could think of, for us to break out. It's probably best that Shar and the lads were stunned when ye hurled me elsewhere. It saved them from about forty mind-rending attacks, and left me free to use the sort of Art that was really necessary."
Elminster gestured down the hillside, and Sylune saw rainbow swirlings there, above torn earth and blasted stumps. The trees around the stream and the leaning bridge were no more . . . and no doubt the gate to the Shadowmasters' home plane was gone too.
"A wild magic area?" she whispered.
"I fear so," Elminster replied grimly, "but the gate is gone forever, and a score or so more Malaugrym with it."
Sylune shuddered and drifted up out of his hands. Except for the few stones where the Old Mage was sittingwell west of where he had beenthe ruined manor was now a crater of mud and gravel.
She swirled back to face him. "How long has it been since we came back from the Castle of Shadows?"
"Nigh on a month," Elminster said quietly.
Sylune" nodded grimly. "I thought so. Has Shadow-dale fallen?"
Elminster gave her a twisted grin. "Not yet." He got up and trudged west, into the trees. "Come to the meadow."
11
ED GREENWOOD
Sylune drifted along beside him, suddenly reluctant to be alone. The old wizard had taken only a few paces before they emerged into a field of trodden grass where Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr sat, looking up with welcoming smiles.
"Thankee, and all that," Itharr said, his broad shoulders shifting as he smiled.
"All part of my orders," Sylune told him briskly, giving Elminster a meaningful look, "as enunciated by the tyrant mage here."
"Ah, yes," Belkram said. "I believe I know just how you feel."
"Yes," Sharantyr agreed crisply. "I think it's about time, Old Mage, that you told us what befell Faerun while we were all caught in this magic."
"You might have revived us sooner," Itharr added darkly.
Elminster looked at the burly ranger. "It took me days to repair and rebuild thy bodies, all three of ye. I had to use necromantic spells I haven't looked at in ages . . . and I do mean ages." He lifted an eyebrow. "Perhaps I didn't get thy head screwed on quite right."
"I" Itharr began, but Belkram interrupted him.
"If that's so, sirwhy do I feel weary, and in pain?"
"Aye!" Itharr agreed.
"The only way I could save ye at all," Elminster muttered, "was to restore ye to exactly as ye were before the trap took us. As it was, I nearly lost ye more than onceye in particular, Belkram, five times! The gods know I've grown used to never receiving the slightest thanks when I help folk, but betimes I think certain beneficiaries of my arts close enough to meand perceptive enough, toah, ne'er mind ..." He glared at the handsome Harper.
Belkram returned his look of anger.
"All right," Sharantyr said, looking from one to the other. "Enough. Tell us about the Realms, El."
Elminster's face grew calm as he nodded and said
ALL SHADOWS FLED
briskly, "Zhentilar armies march on Shadowdale from all sidesand the avatar of the god Bane rides with them, leading the main body himself."
"Faerun's flying dung," Sylune said crisply. The unaccustomed oath drew startled gazes her way. "Even if the dale can withstand such an assault," she said bitterly, "it'll be torn into smoking ruins in the doing." She turned to look south. "And after all these years, I'll see it destroyed after all."
"Be not so quick to surrender our home to the Black Gauntlet," Elminster said firmly. "/ shall be there, fighting to the last. . . and I've sent Zhentilar troops running bootless away from Shadowdale more times than I care to recall."
"If three swords can make a difference in this, sir," Belkram said heavily, "things must be bad. Tell us in truth what's befallen thus far ... where are the Zhents now?"
Elminster nodded. "Four armies are on the march," he said, all trace of testiness gone. "The one coming down through Voonlar is the largest, though my friend Perendra took care of a goodly number of the fools by calling up a lightning storm. Fancy marching through a downpour in full armor; some of these warriors must have cold iron between their ears, not just over them! Meanwhile, I dealt with a few thousand more."
"Oh? How do you 'deal with' a few thousand Zhent troops?" Belkram asked, shifting into a more comfortable slouch in the grass. The more he dealt with arch-mages, the more it was becoming obvious that their shared concept of 'haste' allowed time for thorough discussions of everything.
"Carefully, lad," Elminster told him predictably. "Carefully."
The two Harpers sighed together . . . and had many other opportunities to sigh as the wizard rambled on. At one point Belkram muttered despairingly, "Get on with it!" under his breath.
13
ED GREENWOOD
He'd spoken a trifle too loudly. The Old Mage's eyebrows rose, and Belkram gulped,
"Patience certainly seems to be the provision ye used up most in the shadows," El observed mildly as his pipe glided in to find its way to his lips. He blew a slow, spreading smoke ring and then banished his pipe again. Teleportation is one thing that still seems reliable among all this chaos of Art, so I spent the better part of the highsun hours yesterday transporting a dozen monstershydras, firedrakes, wyverns, behirs, death kisses, and the likeinto the camp of the second, central force, north of the Flaming Tower."
Belkram chuckled, but Shar looked troubled. "What's to stop their using spells to drive those beasts before them, south into the heart of Shadowdale?"
"Me," the Old Mage told her impishly. "I took care of their mages first." He watched another smoke ring drift away on the wind and added, "Some of the beasts I sent into their midst were rather hungry, too."
"Can't Bane teleport just as easily as you can?" Itharr asked quietly.
Elminster nodded his approval at such tactical thought. "Of course. Hell have to come to the aid of his Central Blade or lose the lot of them . . . but the doing will keep him occupied for a time, too busy to work other mischief." He ran fingers through his beard. "The same consideration governed my treatment of the smallest force. Fzoul's leading four hundred or so mounted men-at-arms past us right now, through Daggerdale."
"Four hundred Zhentilar?" Belkram asked, holding up his daggers. "You want us to take down four hundred warriors? Shouldn't we get horses to ride on, just to make it a little fairer?"
Shar and Itharr snorted together. Sylune reclined gracefully on thin air, as if sprawled on a couch, and awaited Elminster's answer.
The Old Mage shook his head and asked softly, "Bold
14
Aii SHADOWS FLED
today, aren't we, friend Harper?"
Lesser men might have quailed before that tone, but Belkram merely shrugged, smiled, and waved at Elminster to continue.
Inclining his head in a mock bow of thanks, Elminster said, "That task is not yours." He lifted his lips in a mirthless grin. "I suspect a few ores can do it better."
"A few ores?" Sharantyr roared, her voice rising from deep and ragged tones, for all the world as if she were a burly male and not a lithe lady. "Elminster!" That last squeaked word of reproach sounded more like a lady's pique, and goaded Sylune into peals of tinkling laughter.
"Yestereve," Elminster told them in tones of injured innocence, "I approached several ore bands foraging in Daggerdale, and undertook to alert them that a well-provisioned Zhent force was entering the territory. That should make things a little warmer for Fzoul than he anticipated, and rob him of most opportunities to reach Shadowdale ahead of the other Zhent forces, hole up in the woods around Grimstead, and amuse himself by using his spells to harass the good folk of the dale."
"All right, El. You've been both clever and busy," Sylun6 reassured him, her voice soothing. Her next words, however, came out as sharp as the crack of a whip: "But so have we. My friends here grow stiff and tired and hungry. Armies march on Shadowdale from all sides, you said, and have told us of three, so what attack is coming from the southand what is our duty in dealing with it?"
Elminster bowed his head again to hide a grin, cleared his throat in apparent embarrassment, and said, "I need ye four to deal with the fourth Zhent attack: the Sword of the South. It's a band of Sembian mercenaries and the covert Zhentarim agents who hired them. They've been assembling in Battledale for a month and more, drawn from all over Sembia and the eastern dales."
"They're going to try to march through the Elven
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Court woods?" Shar asked, one shapely eyebrow raised. That's not a wise tactic for any armed band."
The Old Mage shook his head. "Their orders are to take and subdue Mistledale, and without pause press on up the Mistle Trail, to drive into Shadowdale from the south." He smiled gently. "You will stop them."
"I thought we were going to defend Shadowdale," Bel-kram said. "You may be able to dance around the Realms with a thought and a wiggle of your hips, but we have to walk . . . and I don't feel like running back and forth between two dales, sword in hand, through gods know how many Zhent blackhelms!"
Elminster held up a quelling hand. "I said I'd come to send ye where ye are most needed. Right now Shadow-dale is crowded with frightened troops bustling about. I don't want them to relax because the heroes have come to town, and I don't want them in thy way, or ye in theirs. Mistledale is thy battlefield. The defense of Mistledale will be the southern defense of Shadowdale."
"How strong is this fourth host?" Belkram asked suspiciously.
Elminster shrugged. "About seven thousand, when last I counted."
"Seven thousand!" Itharr burst out as jaws dropped all round.
Shar shook her head. "You love us, don't you?" she murmured.
El chuckled. "Oh, yell have help. All of Shar's battle companions, the Knights of Myth Drannor, are in Mistledale already, mustering the Riders."
"There are only thirty Riders, perhaps six more if the graybeards who can still walk and breathe at the same time come out of retirement, and another dozen if their sword apprentices ride with them, too," Sylune said softly, "and barely a dozen Knights, even if all who've retired or strayed off come running to Mistledale."
El frowned. "And ye, of course . . . isn't that battle might enough?"
"Ah, Old Mage," Sylune said gently, "you may not have noticed, being old and terribly important and even busier than usual . . . but I'm not . . . er, the woman I used to be."
El chuckled. "I've been spreading stories of the Ghost Witch of Shadowdale these last few months ... I think ye'll find, on a battlefield, that ye're rather more than ye used to be."
Sylune glared at him, her eyes two white flames dancing in the air. "And just what does that mean?"
"I've had half Twilight Hall modifying their best battle spells since the seasons turned," the old wizard told her. "If it all works, they can cast them simultaneously through ye, so a dozen or more battle magicswhich ye can aimlash out from ye at once."
"And the catch?"
"The power involved will burn ye out from within, leaving thy body only ashes . . . killing ye."
"El, I don't haveoh. I see. As I'm dead already, I should survive the destruction of whatever body you're going to give me."
El nodded. "It's waiting for ye in Mistledale," he said quietly. "Not the last one 111 give ye ifgods willingI survive this Time of Troubles."
Tears welled up in her phantom eyes, and he added quickly, "Ye'd best get down there speedily. Torm's been dressing the bodyyein all sorts of black leather, red evening lace, and fishnet gauze apparel, most evenings, and seating ye in the porch window of the Six Shields to entertain the locals."
"Oh he has, has he?" Ghostly eyes flashed. "I think 111 just slip into this body of mine at an opportune moment and give him the fright of his life!"
Shar grinned broadly. "May I watch?"
"No, that's 'may we watch?'" Belkram corrected her.
"Of course," Sylune told them grandly. "This Six Shields place is unfamiliar to me, though ..."
"A cheap rooming house east of Lhuin's tannery," El
+ 1(5
17
ALL SHADOWS FLED
told her in the manner of a pompous guide, "opened recently to house field workers, drovers, and others too cheap to stay at the Hart or the Arms."
Shar and the Witch of Shadowdale sniffed in unison. "It sounds like the sort of place where Torm would stay, tight-pockets that he is,"
"Much as I'd like to watch ye roast Torm on a spit, just to see him wriggle for once, there is some haste," the Old Mage added. "By sundown, the scouts of the Sword of the South may well reach Galath's Roost."
"How can we possibly reach Mistledale in time, then?" Itharr askedunwisely, as it turned out.
Sharantyr gave him a weary look. "He's going to mass teleport us," she said grimly. "It always makes me feel sick for hours afterward." She sighed and put one arm across her bosom and the other over her stomach, bracing herself. "Get on with it, then."
"Wait," Belkram said, brow wrinkling. "We haven't even"
The last, fading thing the Harper saw as he struggled to finish his sentence was Elminster's cheery grin. Around him the world flashed and changedinto blue, swirling misty emptiness. Next came a sense of falling, for just one wrenching moment, and then they were standing on a bare board floor in a loft lit by two barrel-sized lamps that hung down on dusty chains from the roof beam. Frowning men in armor stood staring down at large maps whose corners were held down by daggers and gauntletsor looking up at the newcomers in startled consternation, hands going to hilts.
Belkram and Itharr stood a little behind Sharantyr. Right in front of her was a tall, broad-shouldered and hard-faced man whose steely eyes raked both Harpers for a moment before he took a catlike step forward and crushed her into an embrace.
"Shar, by the grace of all the gods!"
The lady ranger's shoulders shook for a moment as she clung to him, her drawn sword forgotten, and she
knew tears would be bright on her face when she turned to introduce them. Florin Falconhand did not give her the chance.
"I've missed you, little one," he growled, and as Shar reached up to tousle his unruly hair, he added, "but you've found companions on the trail, I see. Who are these two gentlemen you've brought?"
Eyeing the drawn blades crowding in around them, Belkram deemed the moment right. He bent his knee, parted the leathers at his throat to show his silver harp pin, and said, "Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers to fight alongside you, Lord Florin. Elminster sent us."
A good-natured grin split the famous ranger's face, and he reached one long arm around Sharantyr to clasp their forearms. "Be welcome! We have need of swords, good men to wield them . . . and adventurers brave enough to stand up to Elminster, too!"
"Pardon, Lord," Itharr said smoothly, "but shouldn't that be 'foolish enough*?"
There were chuckles from all around the room, and other men thrust forward their hands in welcome. They were accepted.
Shar tossed her silver blade under the table and put her freed hand on Florin's cheek to guide him down into a kiss. As their lips touched, she was overheard to be murmuring, "Well, here we go again.. . ."
Bodies, Frzesh and OfheRtoise
Misttedale, Fiamerule 15
It was horribly dark and somehow dusty, followed by a whirling moment of wrenching pain that became a red agony in her chest, rising up to choke her. Threads of pain rolled down limbs stiff from disuse to an aching _ forest of fingertips . . . and then light and sound suddenly burst and swam all around her. The Witch of Shadowdale found herself blinking back tears.
She had a body again!
Fighting an urge to shriek in triumph, Sylune clung to that thought: she had a body again! A body Torm had obviously just finished dressing in a black lace cutaway gown that left her bare there and there and there. . . . He stood with his back to her, humming a contented ditty as he held up a red silk garter before the lamp and surveyed it critically.
It did look rather splendid, but Sylune bent all her attention to making the still unfamiliar body movepushing against the bed with utmost care to sit up silently, and then leaning forward into a quick barefoot step, slipping her arms around him. Her lips went straight to his ear, and before she kissed its hairy lobe, she murmured
ALL SHADOWS FUCD
into it, "Torm ... I've come for you! Torm..."
With a gratifying shriek, Torm leapt into the air, red silk flying. Sylune clung to his trembling limbs and made the leap with him, but the Knight twisted in the air to fling her free and grabbed at his belt dagger. The Witch of Shadowdale put one leg behind her, bounced on it, and lifted her other knee smartly between his, ere she bounded backward onto the bed.
Lord Torm of Shadowdale, Knight of Myth Drannor and thief of some skill, rose into the air once more, sobbing. His darkening eyes met hers for just a moment with a look of mingled pain, terror, and disbeliefbefore he crashed face first to the floor.
Some minutes later, the figure sprawled on the furs beside the bed stopped moaning and writhing, and asked hesitantly, "Sylune? Is it you, truly?"
She stood up and walked slowly around the room, kicking experimentally to limber up stiff legs and toes. "It is, Torm . . . which is why you still live, I suppose."
Weakly, the thief on the floor began to chuckle. "Bits of me do. Others I'm not so sure about. I'm sorry, Lady."
"Apology accepted, lecherous scum."
He laughed openly this time, his whooping breaking off with a catch as the shaking brought him fresh pain. "Ohhh, gods," he said at last, rolling over. "I've not felt this much pain since . .. well, never mind."
"I hope she was worth it," Sylune said teasingly, and then asked curiously, "Why weren't you wearing one of your usual flamboyant codpieces?"
Torm looked hurt. "I wasn't dressed yet! Can you see me going downstairs in this?" He held his arms wide to fully display the patched and stained cotton undersuit that went under his fighting leathers. "Ladies first," he added, gesturing at her.
Sylune put her hands on her hips and gave him a level stare as she gestured, up and down, at herself. "This is your idea of 'dressed,' I take it?"
Torm gave her a sly look from the floor, and rolled up
ED GREENWOOD
to a sitting position, wincing once. "Well, you hadn't complained before tonight," he said, feigning innocence.
"Yetas you may just have noticedI'm doing so now," Sylune told him calmly. Then she snapped, "Take this frippery off meat once!"
Torm bounded to his feet with an alacrity that belied the severity of his injury. "My pleasure, Lady Sylune!"
"I'll bet," she said dryly. Try to keep your hands on the buckles and thongs, now, and when you're done, 111 need a neck rub. Hmmmy calves, too. This body is as stiff as old wood!" She struck a pose, pirouetted experimentally, admired herself in the burnished metal looking glass, and rubbed her nose. "You've taken some care with my hair," she said in tones of pleased surprise. "Diligent brushing, at the least. My thanks, Torm."
"Lady," Torm said seriously, reaching out a finger to stroke the silvery fall of her hair, "in all my life I'd never dared touch your hair, or Storm's, but I always wanted to. It's . .. truly beautiful. . . like spun silver."
SylunS laughed lightly and laid a hand on his cheek. "Why, thank you, Tormthis, from the maid-chaser of Shadowdale?"
"Lady, I meant it," the thief replied, and bowed. " Twas an honor caring for your body." A twinkle crept into his eye. "In fact, if you weren't so many years my senior. .."
Sylune glared at him, and gestured again at herself. "You were hard at work removing all this saucy stuff, remember?"
Torm's j*aze droppedand he discovered the fallen garter. Plucking it up from the floor, he offered it to her mutely. Sylune gave him a withering look, so he shrugged and tossed it over his shoulder. Then he undid her sash, put his hands on her shoulders and spun her around lightly. He stripped her with a speed and expertise that told her he'd done this a time or two before.
"This bit's much easier when you're standing up ander, with us," he commented. "Oh, by the way . . .
ALL SHADOWS FLED
the stone that lets you occupy this body is implanted here." He touched the inside of her left arm, just above the elbow. Sylune probed cautiously, and thought she felt the magic stone deep within, alongside the bone.
"Mystra bless you and keep you, Old Mage," she breathed, "wherever she is."
"What about prayers for me?" Torm asked teasingly, fingers busy undoing the black silk choker he'd put around her throat earlier.
"You'll be needing more than I feel capable of giving," she replied with a chuckle. Then the Witch of Shadow-dale reached out, caught hold of his chin, and kissed him firmly, darting her tongue into his mouth.
When she released him, Torm was smiling a little dazedly. "What was that for?" he asked in pleased tones.
She put her arms around him, smelly undersuit and all. "Torm, you rogue," she said feelingly, "do you know how long it's been since I've held someone? Kissed anyone? Tasted anything? Even your mouth is preferable to nothing at all!"
"Hey!" Torm said in aggrieved tones. "What's wrong with the taste of my mouth?"
"Nothing," she said tartly, spinning away from him, "except that it's the only taste you've got." She sat down on a chair. "Now, about that neck rub."
"If my taste is so bad," Torm said, delving hurriedly into a wardrobe, "how is it that you're in my bedchamber, out of a dozen more in this place? Hey?"
"That can be remedied," she said, rising.
Torm caught her wrist and sat her back down. "You're not going out into the hall like that!"
"Why not?" She gave him a deadly look. "After what I've heard about what you've been doing to this body before I got here, it could hardly damage my reputation  or yours  any further! Has Ulistyl heard about this?"
Torm looked pained. "How did you  ? Oh. Elminster."
She nodded in silent satisfaction. The thief looked at
ED GREENWOOD
 her, found his eyes drawn to meet her own, sighed, reminded himself again that this magnificent creature was a woman old enough to be his great granddam many times over, smiled ruefully, and turned her around to face away from him again. "You wanted a rub," he said, "and you shall have it. Then you can go down those stairs and fight off the entire Zhent army doe-naked if you want. . . but you might catch cold before they get here."
"Not if all the men of Mistledale give me the sort of hot glances you've been throwing my way," she returned. Torm chuckled and tipped some scented oil out of the bottle he'd taken from the wardrobe, rubbed his palms together, and then laid gentle fingers on her shoulders.
Sylune stiffened. "What're yoh. Ohhh." A few pleasant minutes later, she asked almost sleepily, "How did you know I love the scent of cloves? Did Elminster tell you?"
"No," Torm replied, sounding irritated. "How, then?"
"Lady Sylune," Torm said carefully, "I am a thief." He had to hold her up to keep her from falling off the
chair as she bent over and shook with sudden, helpless
laughter.
Daggerdale, Flamerule 15
Valaster's Stand had thrust lancelike into the eastern Daggerdale sky for an age and more, and bid fair to do so for a long time to come. Long before Valaster had chosen to die there, the stand had been an arrowhead-shaped ridge that rose sharply upward as it ran northwest, to end in a jagged, overhanging point of rock under which many a traveler had camped. Wiser folk kept to the thick stand of shadowtop trees that
ALL SHADOWS FLED
marched up its back, and so stayed hidden from the eyes of predators.
The trees on the edge of the rocky point were dead or dying. Their bare branches thrust up into the sky like the gnarled fingers of a dead man, a popular roost for birds of prey. Two large and dusty buzzards sat side by side there now. Many another raptor circled, squalling at the buzzards' refusal to leave, and then flew off in search of other perches.
The two dusty birds paid them no heed, for they were deep in conversation.
"We can't get back without a mage," one said in tones that threatened to become a wail.
"If we find one powerful enough," the larger buzzard added, "there remains the problem of compelling him to create a way between the planesand yet keep ourselves safe against his treachery."
"To say nothing of the wrath of the elders of the blood if they hold us responsible for opening a way into Shadowhome any mortal can use . . . can you imagine armies of men in the halls of the castle?"
"I could tell them it's all your fault, Atari," said the larger buzzard, sounding amused.
"I don't find this a matter for jesting," the other raptor said coldly, "even from you."
"We'd best begin lurking about cities and towers and the like, looking for wizards and trying to find out just who is mighty, and what interests drive them," the larger buzzard said. This may take a long time."
"Aren't they most likely to be found in cities?" Atari responded almost despairingly. "Yinthrim, I don't know how to look and act in a human city! We won't be able to learn anything if we're always running afoul of local laws and customs, and getting attacked!"
"How to begin, then? We'wareF
A large, dark bird was gliding down out of the high blue sky toward them, headed silently but purposefully for their tree. The buzzards watched it nervously, shifting
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
on their perches. "An eagle?" Atari guessed. "Do they eat buzzards?"
"Nothing eats buzzards, if I recall old Othortyn's teachings, except other buzzards," Yinthrim said tightly, "but if he was wrong . . ."
The eagle circled the tree, regarding them both with dark and knowing eyes. "Is this all you've managed to do?" it asked coldly. "Take bird-shape and sit around on dead trees feeling sorry for yourselves?"
"Ahorga?" Atari gasped.
"Son of Yerga," the eagle responded calmly as it came to rest, wings flapping, between them.
"We were just discussing"
"I know; it's how I knew you. Is this all you've done flee into the wilderlands and then sit and talk?"
"Well, no" Atari protested, but Yinthrim interrupted.
"That's a fair summation of our doings, yes," he said. "I'd rather tarry now and plan wisely than charge into one blundering battle after another and awaken the attention of the Red Wizards, these Zhentarim, and Elminster's friends."
The eagle nodded. "Fair enough. Have you come to any conclusions as to what to doas opposed to what not to do?"
"One question," Atari said hurriedly. "How many more of us came through with the sword and ... survived?"
"None I know of, but others of the blood seem to have found their own, separate ways into Faerun."
"Will any of them join with us," Atari asked eagerly, "in hunting down the three violators of the castle? Or the Great Foe?"
Ahorga turned a cold and glittering eye on the younger Shadowmaster. "Hot for revenge, are you? None of themnor will I."
"What?"
Ahorga turned to see if the silent Yinthrim was as shocked as Atari, but the larger buzzard merely
shrugged and said calmly, "Say on."
Ahorga nodded. "Rushing into battle here is a very good way to get slain. They'd no doubt rather see what Faerun has to offer before getting themselves destroyed ... and so should you."
He looked back at Atari. "Go after the three rangers if you mustyou're likely to find them and the Great Foe in and around Shadowdale, southeast of herebut you'd better gather some rings and wands and suchlike that wizards here use to store battle magic... you'll need such power to take even those three. You'd best get some experience in impersonating mortals of Faerun first... unless you like being burned, lashed, and transformed against your will by frightened wizards!"
"You make it sound as if every mage of this world can dispose of us with a wave of his hand," Atari said bitterly.
"If you sneer at them and rush into battle with them heedless of what might befall," Ahorga told him, taking flight with a sudden, powerful wingbeat that almost tumbled them from the tree, "that's exactly what may happen." He circled around them. "Go softly, and make surprise your best weapon."
"Will we see you again?" Yinthrim asked.
"If you stay alive, almost certainly," the senior Shadowmaster said. "Remember, an ambush is your best tactic, and against Elminster, it's your only tactic."
"Well practice ambushes, then," Yinthrim promised grimly. "The Realms around here, I think, are suddenly going to become much more dangerous."
"Now that sounds like a son of Malaug speaking," Ahorga said approvingly. Without a farewell, he flew off southwest.
Atari watched him go, and then said in a small voice, "Are mortal mages really that dangerous?"
"No," Yinthrim assured him. "He was just telling us that overconfidence is."
"Words to live by? Hmmph," Atari said, and turned one wing into a tentacle long enough to make a rude
27*
ED GREENWOOD
gesture into the southwest. Yinthrim chuckled and flew from the branch.
"Where are you going?" Atari asked in sudden alarm.
"I'm going to practice ambushing somethinganything," his fellow Malaugrym replied. "I'm hungry,"
*   *   *   *
Verdant farms stretched away on both sides of the road, which ran like a sword blade down the length of Mistledale. Along the backs of those prosperous steadings stood the unbroken green wall of the encircling Elven Court woods. On this bright morning Mistledale was a beautiful place to ride, with a good mount moving strongly beneath the saddleeven if the rider rode in the midst of a solid ring of ebon-armored warriors, who took care to keep their armored forms between her and any possible attack.
For the third time, Jhessail Silvertree lost sight of everything but moving black-armored bulks and a forest of lances. She studied the small circle of blue sky visible above herall she could see of the world aroundsighed, and decided she'd had about enough. From the mutter-ings behind her, she could tell that her apprentice, Illistyl, whose tongue was apt to be sharper than that of almost anyone else, was clinging to her temper with grim talons. Jhessail smiled tightly, thanked Torm for his work in outfitting her with riding breechesthough her lack of armor was why the Riders were treating her this wayand swung her legs suddenly up underneath her.
She heard a startled, wordless exclamation from a Rider on her right as she spread her hands for balance and stood up on her saddle. She had time for a good look around before the Riders on either side of her were extending their lances around her like the bars of an upturned portcullis and crying out:
"Lady, get down!"
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Catch hold of my lance!"
"Careful, Lady!"
She folded her arms across her breast and waited for them to fall silentand soon enough, uncertainly, they did. "Thank you for your kind concern, Gentlesirs," she said as the horses slowed to a rather jarring trot, "but both Illistyl and I find it rather hard to do any scouting or become familiar with the land around usland you gallants already know well, but which we've seen only once or twice in passingthrough a solid wall of plate armor."
"That's just it," the leader of the patrol rumbled, his deep voice sounding almost scandalized. "You wear no armor! What if a Zhent arrow came from the trees? How could we shield you better than we have been?"
"Kuthe," Jhessail said soothingly, " 'tis not your diligence or skills I reproach, but my lack of any good way to see around or through all of you. I'm saving my one 'long eyes' spell for any spying we need do in the forest. I know the risks of riding to war; I've done it before, remember."
"But to expose yourself needlessly," Kuthe growled, "is foolish, Lady."
"To a vigilant guard of his homeland, yes," Jhessail said, still standing on her saddle, "but I am an adventuress. One who plays with spells. An explorer of baatezu-haunted Myth Drannor. Wedded to an elf, remember? I've done far more crazed things in my life than riding out without armor, I assure you."
"But the little lass* Kuthe said, gesturing helplessly.
"Call me that again, ironhead," Illistyl advised him sharply, "and you'll be chasing your teeth around the inside of that great helm of yours."
There were guffaws from the Riders, but one of them cut through the chorus of mirth. "Lone rider behind!"
Heads snapped around, and Jhessail turned, smiled, and announced, "It's Lord Merith. The reinforcements Elminster promised us must have arrived."
"Reinforcements?" Kuthe rumbled, looking up at her.
ED GREENWOOD
"We've heard nothing of this . . . How many, Lady?"
"Four," she told him sweetly, and there were more guffaws. Illistyl was sure she heard an angry snort as Kuthe's helm swung away from them, but a moment later Jhessail snapped, "Aheadat Treesedge! Lookr
The eastern end of Mistledale, where the flanking arms of the forest met to form a narrow green tunnel around the road to the Standing Stone, had always been called Treesedge. The spot was marked by a covered well and the crumbling rampart of a tiny keep well known to Riders on patrol who'd sheltered from downpours under its remnants. It was a beautiful spot to spend a night, but a bit lonely to be a grave site.
It seemed likely, however, that men were going to be buried there now. Crossbow quarrels were humming down the road from the east, raking the rear of a hard-riding band of merchants on lathered, stumbling horses fleeing west into Mistledale.
The strength of the merchant band was dwindling steadily. The bolts found easy targets. As Jhessail watched, a fat merchant threw up his hands with a strangled wail and pitched from his saddle, choking on the quarrel that stood out of his throat. On the other side of the road, a horse's head flopped and swungand a breath later both horse and rider crashed and rolled in the dust, collapsing into the long silence of death.
Jhessail dropped into her saddle again a scant moment before the Riders spurred ahead into a grim, silent gallop, knowing they'd not be in time. Far behind them, Merith stood up on his own saddle, saw that strife lay ahead, and reached for his bow.
Lances leveled, the Riders of Mistledale swept east. "Get out of the road!" Kuthe snarled at merchants who could not hear. "Clear the way!"
"Kuthe! Halt your men!" Jhessail shouted. "Nowr
The great helm turned her way, the face within dark with anger. "You have some sort of plan?"
"Yes," Jhessail cried, leaning close to him as their
ALL SHADOWS FLED
mounts thundered along side by side. "Just stop them!"
Kuthe gave her a long, slow lookand then reached for the horn at his belt.
After the horn rang out around them, the patrol became a confused mass of dust, rearing horses, and cursing men. Lances rang and rattled off armored shoulders, and Jhessail had to duck hastily to avoid being inadvertently unhorsed.
"Well, mage?" Kuthe demanded when he could be heard. His eyes were on the last merchants, dying up ahead . . . and at something moving on the tree-lined road beyond them. Their slayers.
The leader of the Rider patrol shot her a look. "Well?"
JhessaiFs mouth was a thin, white-lipped line as she told him shortly, "Back away . . . Give us room side by side."
Kuthe waved one great gauntlet in heavy silence; Illistyl was already guiding her mount forward. Jhessail whispered to her, and they raised their arms together, spread as if in supplication to the sky overheadand waited.
In tense silence as the Riders eyed them, they watched the road to the east. "Well?" Kuthe demanded. "Have you seen enough?"
"Wait until they come out," Jhessail said, her eyes on the road. "It'd be our death to ride down that firing tunnel, the gods know. Let them come out. If I'm right, they'll be the Zhents we're expecting . . . with orders to ride right on and take Mistledale. They probably killed those merchants just to stop them from warning us."
Kuthe nodded as the killers of the merchants rode into view: a band of mounted crossbowmen, clad in armor as dark as that of the Riders, streaming out of the road mouth and fanning across the fields of Treesedge. Around the two sorceresses, men swore at the sight of that armor.
"Zhent blackhelms, all right," Kuthe said, "and riding hard to encircle us ... sixty of them, or more. What
31
ED GREENWOOD
now, Lady?"
"Keep silence for a breath or two," Jhessai) told him softly, "while we do what we have to. Let no man here ride forward until I give the word. When our first spell goes off, your horses may move by themselves; be ready to hold them back!"
"Whose place is it to give orders?" a Rider demanded gruffly.
Jhessail turned on him eyes that were dark and cold, and said, "It will mean death to ride forward. Disobey my suggestion freely, but leave word for your widow first."
More than one dry chuckle answered her from the men around, and Kuthe growled, "Right. We wait. Work your magic. Shields up!"
Crossbow quarrels were already hissing their way, though the range was impossibly long. Ignoring them, Jhessail spread her arms again and began the incantation, Illistyl chanting in unison.
Abruptly the air in front of the Riders was full of shadowy, moving formsimages that suddenly grew dark and solid; the gleaming black armored backs of Riders on horseback, charging away with lances lowered. More than one mount under the real Riders surged forward to join them, and had to be reined in, hard. The ground shook under the thunder of phantom hooves, and dust rose in a cloud as thirty dark horsemen raced away east.
"Gods," the Rider who'd challenged Jhessail whispered, watching the illusory Riders charge away into battle. "They certainly look real."
"Aye, but how can ghost Riders kill any Zhents?" Kuthe demanded as Merith Strongbow came up beside him, an arrow ready, and nodded in silent greeting.
"That's the next spell," the elf told him with quiet confidence. "I've seen this trick before." He thrust both bow and arrow into the startled Rider's hands. "Here hold this."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
As Kuthe gaped at him, he raised his own hands and joined in the gestures of the next spell, murmuring something the Rider couldn't quite hear.
Then he plucked bow and arrow back from the officer's hands and stared east, watching as the dust cloud behind the false Riders became a thick, swirling mass of yellow and greenand the two forces crashed together.
With startled speed, the Zhents plunged through the phantom Ridersinto the thick of the yellow-green cloud. And men who rode into that cloud did not come out again.
"I hate doing that to horses," Illistyl said, her voice as thin and cold as a knife.
Merith's eyes, however, were on those who'd ridden wide. "Jhess!" he snapped urgently. As his wife peered past Kuthe, Merith drew his bowstring back to his chin, angled the ready arrow up into the sky, and loosed.
Kuthe had never been so close to a spell being cast before. He stiffened and swallowed as one slim and shapely arm brushed his breastplate in an arcane gesture, and a clear, musical voice spoke two distinct words.
She turned her head and winked at him. Kuthe blinked at herand when he looked again at the sky, the arrow had already split into a dozen shafts, plummeting down on the hard-riding Zhents in a deadly rain.
All but two of the invaders fell in that volley. Kuthe glared at the surviving Zhents and snapped, "Orold take them!" Six of the Riders spurred away without a word, waving their lances as they followed Orold into battle.
"It feels . . . unfair, killing men like that," Jhessail said quietly.
Kuthe stared at her, and then at the fading yellow cloud where only a few horses still choked and rolled.
"Lass, lass," one of the older Riders replied through his snow-white mustache, "there're still near seven
ED GREENWOOD
thousand of them, if our scouts be right. When we face alt of'em, sweeping down on our homes, d'you think they'll turn their mounts back if we yell 'unfair' then? Aye?"
Another Rider spoke then. "I can even things just a trifle more."
Jhessail turned her head to see who'd spoken; the voice had sounded surprisingly old. The Rider guiding his mount toward her wore worn armor that had been recently burnished at the joints to quell creeping rust. The armor was of an older, bulkier design than what Kuthe wore, though most of it matched the ebon gloss of the other Riders' harnesses. The Rider doffed his helmand Jhessail stared into the lined face of a very old man.
"Lead us if you will, Baergil," Kuthe said quietly.
"Nay, lad," the old Rider told him. "My commanding days are done. I know daily just how good I wasI order my cabbages about in the garden, and they heed me not a whit."
"Ho, Baergil," Merith said with a smile, and the old man matched it as his cloudy blue eyes met the elf's steady gaze. "I remember you."
"And I you, Sir Elf," Baergil replied. "Though it's been thirty years gone since then."
"Baergil led the Riders that many summers ago," Kuthe told Jhessail, "when I was but a lad. Then he turned to the worship of Tempus, Lord of Battles, and left our ranks."
"They're all dead," Illistyl told them bleakly; she had never stopped watching the Zhents die. "I guess we'll not need your spells, priest of the war god."
Baergil smiled. "Nay, lass; their deaths're what I was waiting for. There's a spell that raises the fallen. . . ."
"To dowhat?" Jhessail asked quietly.
"In the hours before dawn," Baergil said, "if they ride as hard as 111 bid them, sixty skeletal reavers will ride into Essembra, striking at anyone with drawn weapons
34
ALL SHADOWS FLED
 or who hurls spells at them. Those who offer them peace they'll leave be, but Zhents being Zhents . . ."
There was a roar of hard laughter. "Do it!" Illistyl told him delightedly, and the warrior priest nodded, watching Orold and his men return.
Then he turned back to them. "That should buy us the time we need," Baergil said with a certain satisfaction, "to make Galath's Roost ready to properly welcome Zhent butchers." The Riders around him laughed again  a chorus of low, quiet sounds that held no humor.
Jhessail shivered despite herself, and caught Illistyl's eye. The two of them shared a comforting look as the priest turned away.
As Merith moved up beside his wife and stretched out a long arm to embrace her, Jhessail felt a pat on her knee  and looked up to see Kuthe wheeling away from her.
"Well done, Knight," he said gruffly. "See you at the Roost!" He urged his mount into a canter, and all around Riders spurred their horses after him, heading for the distant trail into the trees that would take them to the Roost ... to turn the ruined keep into a deathtrap for Zhentilar blackhelms.
Merith and Jhessail's arms were around each other, and their kiss went on until Illistyl looked up at the sky and remarked brightly, "Beautiful weather we're having, isn't it?"
The sky seemed to know this already, though the two Knights beside her didn't seem to notice  or care. Illistyl sighed and rode away. In the distance, she saw dead men and horses rising in a stiff ring around the black-armored priest. She shivered, shook her head, and rode after the Riders.
See the Realms and taste true adventure, they'd said. Well, here we go chasing it again  and flashing swords to that!
The Dead and the Liaing Both Ride
Essembra, Battledale, early hours of Flamerule 16
Gostar yawned and backed into another circular walk, keeping his eyes and attention always on the night to the north. As if his shifting had been a signal, his companions did the same. Those who fell asleep on guard duty or were judged careless often swallowed sword blades on the spot, but the long, cold hours made feet ache and limbs stiffen. It was best to keep moving in the last stretch before dawn, when the mists clouded bright armor and played tricks on eye and ear.
Now, for instance. A low rumbleGostar could feel it in his jaw more than he could hear itwas rising from the ever-shifting mists ahead. A helmed head down the line inclined to listen; the others had heard it, too.
The noise was growing louder, becoming a continuous soft thunder, swirling over and around them with the scudding mists . . . and seeming familiar. He'd heard this sound before. In his saddle, on the rolling plains near Thentia . . .
Then he knew what it was, and ice clawed at his heart and throat.
Gostar shook himself, swallowed, and shouted,
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Rorst! Run back to rouse the camp!"
"And why'd I risk a flogging to do that, now?" Rorst asked in his usual, careless, I've-seen-it-all tone.
"Can't you hear it?" Gostar waved one gauntleted hand at the mists before them, where the sound had become a continuous choppy thunder. "Those're horses, manhalf a hundred or more, at full gallop!"
Helmed heads were looking at him all along the line, nowand in the eyes, their whites flashing in the gloom, Gostar saw the grim realization that he was right. Swords gleamed and sang as they were drawn. Rorst took a few lazily shambling steps away from the line just to show that he didn't take orders from a fellow ranker, and feared nothing besides. Then he broke into a trot.
A line of fast-plunging horses leapt out of the north mists, like arrows seeking targets. Atop them rode black-armored warriors, drawn swords in hand.
Gostar yelled in fear and defiance and raised his own sword, whirling it around his head to get the speed he'd need to cleave armor and unhorse a foe. He sprang deftly aside as a charger galloped right at him, then leaned in to strike his blow. It wasn't until he looked up into eyes that were dead and dark that Gostar knew something was wrong, horribly wrong.
The face above his was Estard's . . . and Estard was up in Mistledale this night, with sixty fellow Zhentilar blades, carving out a claim there for the Sword of the South. Who, then, was this . . . ?
Bright pain burst through Gostar as Estard's sweeping blade cut through the light mail under Gostar's left arm and into the ribs and chest beyondand the wounded man hung for a long, burning moment on that cruel edge of steel. The world grew dark around him as he flew free, the ground so hard and close and . . . more hooves struck him as he fell, crushing him into the turf, but Gostar felt them not. Nor anything else, ever again.
37
ED GREENWOOD
A raw scream split the night. Swordlord Amglar came awake, its echo ringing painfully between his ears. He'd been dreaming of gentler, softer, and more welcoming sounds, by far.
"What befalls, by the gods?" he growled at the darkness, feeling for his sword hilt. Horses were thundering through the camp, and the clash and ring of arms rose around him, mingled with shoutsvoices he knew.
They were under attack by a large mounted force!
Amglar cursed, snatched up sword and shield, and stamped feet into his boots, but wasted no time on clothes. His sword squire was snoring like a contented whale at the far end of the tent, with all their armor racked beyond him. It might as well be a realm away.
Boots secure, Amglar spat a heartfelt curse and ran for the back of the tent, where the din was less. The attack was from the north . . . Hillsfar? Who else could muster enough mounted swords to get through the road guard? Elves never fought from the saddle .. . and even if every farmer in Mistledale could find a horse, scarce more than a handful'd be able to stay on it while swinging a blade!
Then he was out into the night, and war was all around himZhent blackhelm fighting Zhent black-helm! Amglar stared around for a moment at running, half-naked men, horses plunging and trotting stiffly among them, stiff black-armored ridersstiff? The swordlord's eyes narrowed.
He ducked back out of the way of a cursing knot of men being dragged behind pikes buried deep in a rider who did not slow or fall from his saddle. The rider clung to the upswept forecantle with one hand while he swung a futile blade back and forth with the other. The horse struggled on under the weight of them all.
Undead. The attackers must be their own men, raised and sent back from Mistledale. Amglar stared around at Essembra, cursed with loud feeling, and started a perilous run toward the red-lantern house the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
mages had taken as their own. He hoped he'd make it there alive . . . and in time.
He was still running hard, dodging blackhelms who should be dead and frantic quarrels from his own terrified men, when Ondeler appeared at the close-curtained balcony of the Bold Banners and stared at the battle below. There was no hint yet of dawn, but the torches in their tripods still blazed, and in the dancing radiance they cast, the Zhentarim wizard could see the street was choked with struggling men.
"Bane's hand!" Ondeler cursed, amazed and fearful. Who could be attacking them here, in the heart of Essembra? Behind him, a lass appeared on the balcony and gasped. He turned and snapped at her, "My robe! Be quick!"
Scared eyes met his for a moment, and she was gone. Ondeler turned back to the street, crouching low behind the balcony rail, and watched the carnage below. Swordlord Amglar, still a distance off, ran toward the red-lantern house, and then Ondeler heard anxious breathing at his shoulder.
"Lord?" the lass whispered.
He reached out without looking, felt the familiar fabric of his robes, grasped it firmly, and said, "Go now and awaken Myarvukthe mage with the curling black beard, who came in with me. Bid him come here; Ondeler commands. If he seems unwilling, tell him the seven talons await. Haste, now!"
"Lord, I will," she hissed, and was gone.
Ondeler smiled wryly as he felt for what he'd need. Why was it that ladies of the evening obeyed faster and more willingly than any of the Zhents under him? Perhaps he should take all the women of this house with him, to be his swordcaptains and envoysif he still had any command at all, after this attack.
He gave up groping for the secret pockets and rose into a cautious crouch to put the robe on. Once it was around him, his fingers knew the places where this and
ED GREENWOOD
that were stored, and came up with them.
He rose up to his full height, made the pass that touched the two crumbling substances together, and chanted:
"By dung of bat and sulphur's reek And mystic words I now do speak Ashtyn ortkruu angcoug laen Let empty air burst intoflame.*"
As the components dwindled and left his hands empty, one end of the street below obediently erupted in ravening flame, in an explosion that hurled blazing bodies against walls in a gruesome chorus of thuds.
In the flickering aftermath of the fire, Ondeler could see some armored men fighting on despite the flames rising from their bodies. He felt a chill of fear; how?
Undead. Ah, of course. Most were ashes, but a few were horses and men, bare-boned or burning, still moving, fighting. ...
Through them stumbled a man with a drawn sword, who wore only boots and a furious expression. Sword-lord Amglar had finally reached the red-lantern house. He was heading for the door beneath Ondeler and glaring up at the balcony as he came.
"Crimson curtains, wizard! Are you trying to burn all Essembra down, and us with it?"
"It does seem to work, Swordlord," Ondeler replied with a serenity he did not feel. "Nice uniform, by the way..."
Amglar made a certain rude gesture with his sword, but the wizard sneered and raised his hands as if to cast a spell. The Zhentilar snarled and hastened out of view, in under the railing, heading for the door.
"I am here, Ondeler," Myarvuk said from the chamber behind the balcony where the wizard stood.
"Good," said his Zhentarim master. "Did you bring my envoy with you?"
"Envoy?"
4O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"The woman who came for you .. . Belurastra."
"The?" Wisely, Myarvuk swallowed his astonishment and replied levelly, "She stands beside me, master."
"Get her some riding breeches, boots, a daggeryou know," Ondeler said, eyes still on the street below. "She'll be riding with us."
"Lord?" Belurastra asked in a low, cautious voice, as the apprentice mage hurried away
"Aye, envoy?"
"I-I am unused to war. Are you sure you want to do this?"
"I am," Ondeler said flatly, watching a dozen men-at-arms hacking undead limb from limb across the street. An attacker rode toward them, and the wizard swept a stone from another hidden pocket, whispered a word over it, and held it out to make an intricate gesture.
An instant later, a boulder the size of a small cottage appeared above the undead mount and rider and crashed to the cobbles, crushing them both into a tangled, bloody mass. Ondeler nodded in satisfaction. "Another fireball may not be necessary," he announced. .
That's good news, wizard," the sour voice of Sword-lord Amglar grunted from the room behind. "Your last fire spell sent at least seven of our swords to their graves . . . and a few more bid fair to join them before the day is full."
"Their surviving swordbrothers might just be able to deal with a few zombies," Ondeler said sarcastically. "Weight of numbers and all that."
Amglar ignored this, refusing to rise to the challenge. It was not the first time this arrogant Zhentarim had likened loyal troops of Zhentil Keep to pitiful inferiors not able to match wits or swords with the walking dead. He wondered idly if Ondeler would have dared to act thus if he'd known that Amglar was under orders to report regularly to Draethe, steward of the Inner Circle, on the wizard's performance. Well, no matter; one such
ED GREENWOOD
report was soon going to be the last, featuring the sorrowful news that Ondeler's own incompetence had brought about his death in battle. Amglar had been considering elegant ways of wording that missive for some time now.
But enough; it was time to play the stone-skulled soldier again. "I've ordered all the troops awakened, fed, and made ready to march," he said heavily. "As soon as the last undead ones are hewn down and burned, we go north. They're probably laughing in Mistledale now, thinking they've the whole day to dig in and await us ... I'd like to take most of that preparation time away from them."
"All the troops?" Ondeler turned, raising an eyebrow. "Even"he gestured expressively at the boudoir around them, taking in the entire red-lantern house in his meaning"the rest of the magelings?"
Amglar set his jaw. "The whole host," he said flatly, and held up his sword hilt, the black hand of Bane gleaming in obsidian on the pommel, in silent reminder that he held overall command of the Sword of the South, supreme even in dealings with Ondeler.
The wizard shrugged. "I am ready, as always." As Myarvuk returned with a bundle of clothing, his master said coldly, "Rouse the 'prentices in as much haste as is seemly. Our swordlord is impatient to find other battlefields than this town."
Myarvuk nodded in silence and withdrew, leaving Lady Belurastra curiously eyeing the belt, boots, breeches, and tunic.
"Put them on," Ondeler ordered her as Belurastra stood stroking one of the smooth-carved balls that surmounted her wooden bedposts. She wore a slightly bewildered expression, and made no move to take up the small sheathed dagger that lay atop the heap.
"If you ride nude," Ondeler told her coldly, "you'll be raw before the sun is bright, and of no use to me."
Belurastra raised large, dark eyes to meet his and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
asked, "Lord, you are determined to do this?"
"Of courseand if I must tell you again, young Lan-dras of my 'prentices will have the use of your backside to practice his firewhip spell tonight."
-The lady escort sighedit was almost a shiverand said, "Very well," in a small voice as she undid the lace and let her shift fall to the floor. Ondeler watched it form a puddle of cloth around her feet and turned his head away in satisfaction to glare at the swordlord once more. Amglar had raised his own blade as if to stare at its edge critically, but the wizard saw his gaze dart to the woman, and smiled. Brains in their codpieces, all of these swordswingers. Twas a pity that they were needed at all, to hold what the wizards of the keep won....
The swordlord was a veteran soldier. After that first glance to see what she was doing, he kept his gaze resolutely away from Belurastra until it was too late.
Smoothly, the most beautiful woman in Battledale, senior escort of the Bold Banners house, twisted and pulled on the wooden bedpost ball. It came away, and she reached into the hollow interior beneath it and snatched forth a slim poniard. Tossing the ball on the rumpled bed, she used her freed hand to strip away a wax-sealed sheath from the weapon as she raised it.
In the lamplight, a dark green liquid gleamed on the needle-slim steel. Somethingperhaps a momentary flash of reflectionalerted the wizard, and he whirled about to face Belurastra.
"I regret," she said firmly as she plunged the poisoned blade into his right eye, "that I cannot accept the position of envoy to any Zhentarim wizard!"
As she jerked the blade free, the swordlord leapt at her. Ignoring Ondeler's crumpling body, he caught her wrist in steely fingers before she could turn the blade on herself.
The deadly poniard hung bloodily just above her bare breast for a perilous moment as they strained against each otherand then the Zhentilar twisted and
+ 4S-*
ED GREENWOOD
yanked. Belurastra sobbed in helpless pain, and the blade spun to the floor. It struck the floorboards and stood quivering there.
"Poisoned, Lady?" Amglar asked in low tones. "Bravely donebut to throw your life after his would be a waste ... a foolish waste." He released her wrist, and the nude woman took a smooth step back.
"Youll not slay me?" she asked, rubbing her wrist.
The Zhentilar officer shook his head. "Nay, Lady, if you agree not to bury that little fang in methough you'll forgive me if I neglect to mention your name or heroic deed in my reports. Best hide that blade after we're gone, somewhere that doesn't tie it to you. And neither of us speaks of this, or remembers it, for the rest of our days."
The lady escort's eyes widened in sudden hope.
Amglar regarded her gravely. "Well? Have we agreement?"
"We do," Belurastra said, eyes bright with unshed, grateful tears.
He smiled. The heels of his boots clicked together. "As to your query: slay you? Nay; I salute you. You've done something none of us dared to ... and freed us of his idiocies just when we could no longer afford them."
A smile flickered across her face. Amglar realized it was because of his elaborate dignitythe boots he'd clicked together were all he wore. He grinned back at her, and said, "If you're so adverse to wearing breeches an' all, I'll see if they'll fit me."
Myarvuk came bustling in a few breaths later and looked sharply down at the body sprawled facedown on the floor, blood pooled about its head.
Amglar, resplendent in too short breeches, said briefly, "Spell went wrong. You're spellmaster of this sword now."
Myarvuk brightened. Then his eyes narrowed and he took a quick pace back, out of the swordlord's reach. "How can I be sure your next report to the steward
44
ALL SHADOWS FiD
won't contain a note of how I treacherously slew my master? I think I must know where we both stand . . . or if I must ensure that I'm very soon the only one still standing." He raised one hand threateningly, wriggling his fingers in a pantomime of spellcasting.
Amglar shrugged. "Save your spells for the foe, boy. Even if I did report that you killed Ondeler, twould not paint you ill in their eyes. You know that. Rest assured my reports won't say you had any part of it, unless you want me to write thus. Now stop prancing about trying to impress me, an' see what you can salvage of this carrion's"he nudged the dead wizard with his foot "magic, for your own use."
Myarvuk bent to his task eagerly, but stiffened a few breaths later when Amglar growled, "Just one other matter, Spellmaster. You don't need an envoy, an' Bat-tledale doesn't need its best lady escort slain. If we are to have a deal, she stays here, unhurtyour witness, if you ever need one, that you weren't anywhere near when Ondeler so unfortunately left us."
Myarvuk nodded and shrugged. "No argument here, Lord." He bent gingerly to the body. "I don't suppose you?"
"Nay, boy. Loot your own bodies . . . an' don't be all day about it. The Sword of the South rides out of Essembra as soon as it's light enough to see full quarrel range ahead. There'll be no scouting and creeping about, either. We ride looking for battle. Someone in Mistledale seems to want death, and I mean to bring it to him!"
Axshabenford, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
"Clever battle strategies?" Florin asked, wrinkling his brow. "What clever battle strategies, Torm, do you think a force of seventytwenty of whom are untrained farmerscan essay on the field? Against
ED GREENWOOD
seven thousand?"
The thief shrugged. "The mighty battle mastery of gallant Florin Falconhand is a legend from the Dragon Reach to the Storm Horns, and shiny-eyed maidens await, breathless, for whatever Florin may have up his"
"Don't push it, Torm," Florin said dryly, and snapped his visor down. His next words boomed hollowly from inside his fearsome great helm. "Armed with my reputation, I'm sure we can take the field with sixty-nine rather than seventy."
As the Knights around them chuckled, the ranger stood tall in his stirrups and waved his blade. "Ride out!"
The cry was echoed by the captain of the Riders, and all the horses surged forward eagerly. They were so few that the road took them easily.
More than one watching villager shook his head in disbelief at the calm manner of Mistledale's defenders. One of the ridersthe woman with silver hair, who'd sat asleep and nearly naked in the window of the Six Shields several nights runningeven laughed merrily at something the thief said to her. The three rangers riding easily behind her exchanged glances and smiles, and spurred their horses to pass her by, giving the watching folk of Ashabenford cheerful waves.
The villagers were not heartened.
One spat into the dust of the road and rumbled, "A handful against thousands! We'd best be packing the night through and try for Cormyr, I guess.. . ."
"There's no safe place to ride to," the woman standing beside him said quietly. "I'll be staying on. They'll cut me down in my own fields, to be sure, but at least I'll die at home, on my own land, an' 111 not have run from anyone."
"Don't be daft! You want to die screaming, with half a dozen Zhent blackhelms laughing over you?"
"Nay, but the gods don't seem to care what I want
4<5
Ail SHADOWS FLED
an' I don't even know the road to Cormyr. This is as good a place to die as any."
"A thousand warriors, and a thousand more, and many more besides, that merchant said," another villager said softly. "The Riders'11 all be slain, sure. Yet hear them laugh!"
"Fools," the first villager grunted. "I'm off to pack. Who's with me?"
"I'll ride to Cormyr with you," said another. "Even if the gods themselves took the field with our Riders an' these Knights of Myth Drannor, there's no hope they'll win against so many."
There were many silent nods at these words, and the villagers sighed and turned away from the road. In the distance, the riders were little more than tiny moving dots now.
The war band left Ashabenford behind in a few breaths, riding easily east down the dale. The morning was chilly but clear, and as Florin looked around at his battle companions and the tranquil, sun-splashed farms on either side, he was happy. Much blood lay aheadperhaps the ending of all their bright days and yet he was doing what needed to be done, and folk needed him to do it. What more can anyone ask than to be needed and wanted and free to answer the call?
The captain was guiding her mount closer to his; Florin sidestepped his charger to meet her. "Aye, Lady?"
Captain Nelyssa's gray-green eyes met his, and her thin lips relaxed into a rueful smile. "I fret still, Florin. I know what we must do, and yet, to ride away and leave Ashabenford with not a sword to defend it ... What if a dozen of themnay, three of them, with ready bladessneak past us through the woods? Who will defend the old men and maids then?"
"Harpers, Lady of Chauntea," Florin told her gravely. "Almost twenty of them, come to us from Twilight Hall in Berdusk with all the magic Lady Cylyria can spare. They will fight to hold Ashabenford even if we falland
47
ED GREENWOOD
they carry the means to farspeak Twilight Hall and call on swift spell aid."
"Aye." The lady paladin looked troubled. "And spells themselves have become chancy things of late."
"Not all spells," Sylune put in as she rode on Florin's other side, "else I'd not be here now."
"And you are very much here," Torm purred from the saddle beside her.
"Stow it, clever tongue," growled the fat priest Rathan, who rode on the thief's other side, saddle creaking under his weight. "Ye're worse than a boar in heat!"
Torm favored his best friend with a complicated gesture that had nothing to do with casting spells.
"Tymora forgive ye," the priest said heavily, crossing his arms disapprovingly across his ample girth, "but I do not. Seven nights of abstinence shall be thy penance, I vow!"
"You'll have to chain me somewhere to manage thatand, of course, catch me first," Torm told him mockingly, ducking his horse smoothly around behind Sylune's mount.
Rathan sighed and waved at him in mock dismissal.
The captain of the Riders watched with interest. "Can yon thief run at any speed?" she asked Florin.
"Watch him during the battle," Florin told her dryly. There're few folkeven winged thingsthat can keep up with his retreat."
In reply to this, Torm treated the ranger to an even more intricate gesture. Nelyssa's eyebrows rose. "Droll fellow . . . did he succeed at thieving by outrunning guards?"
"No," Florin told her, not quite smiling. "Just by staying alive this long. And he did that by outrunning husbands."
Nelyssa rolled her eyes. "I can see we're going to have to watch ourselves," she said sarcastically.
Torm turned in his saddle, winked at her, and then
48
ALL SHADOWS FLED
leered at the Shield of Chauntea until she curtly ordered to him to scout ahead.
Laughing, Torm waved and galloped away.
"I'd best go after him to keep him out of trouble," Sharantyr said to Belkram and Itharr. "Come with me?"
"Of course, Shar," they said together, and the three horses leapt ahead as one.
Sylune watched the three rangers pull away and sighed. Tve grown used to them," she told Florin. "See you at the battle." She urged her mount into a canter.
"We're only going to Swords Creek!" Florin said in amused protest. Torm's probably reached it by now!"
"All the more reason for my being there in haste," Sylune told him severely. "The less time I give him on his own, the less I'll have to patch or set right!" And she was gone, galloping hard through the black-armored ranks of the Riders. Some of them amusedly watched her go; others cast appreciative glances at the silver hair that streamed out behind her as she crouched low over her horse's neck.
"Are your Knights always this pranksome?" Captain Nelyssa Shendean asked Florin quietly, visions of chaos on the battlefield rising before her eyes . . . chaos that could kill them all.
Florin gave the Shield of Chauntea a smile that had cold steel in it. "Usually far worse than this," he told her. "They're taking it gently so as not to upset you, I'd say."
Nelyssa sighedand then her eyes widened in horror as she realized he wasn't jesting. Her hand went to the electrum earth pendant around her neck and brought it to her lips. "Mother Chauntea, preserve and shield us," she murmured feelingly.
An instant later, the ground rumbled under the hooves of the hurrying horses, rocking them all. As startled men cursed and hauled at their reins around her, Nelyssa looked around at Mistledale with a sudden, dazzling
ED GREENWOOD
smile. Then she stood up in her stirrups, whooped, drew her sword, swung it in a wild, flashing salute to the sun overhead, and galloped off toward Swords Creek in tearing haste, scattering astonished Riders in all directions.
Florin met Rathan's gaze. He took in the priest's eloquently raised eyebrows, and shrugged. "We seem to have that effect on folks," he observed. "Tymora should be happy."
"Oh, she is," Rathan told him. "Wherever we go, the entire Realms around seems to be plunged into taking wild chances."
"I've noticed that," Florin said in dry tones. "It's not a state of affairs to everyone's taste."
The stout priest of Tymora shrugged in his turn. "Their loss," he said piously, "and Faerun's gain. May Tymora smile upon ye in the battle, Florin."
"And upon thee, stout heart," Florin told him. Rathan looked sharply at the ranger's innocent smile, and found it not quite innocent enough. He snorted and spurred away, leaving Florin alone with the Riders of Mistledale.
The ranger caught a few questioning looks from the black-armored armsmen around him, and smiled. "Easy, lads. There's no need to rush into our graves. The gods wait for us all."
"There're going to be gods at this battle?" one of the Riders asked fearfully.
"Now, lad, let's not get our hopes up," an older Rider said with a grin. "You've got to save some excitement for your next battle!"
The younger Rider swallowed. "If I live to see another one," he whispered, "I'll begin to worry about such things, Ostyn."
"That's the spirit!" the older Rider told him. "Cast your worries aside, and ride on into battle!"
The young Rider looked at him with a very white face and said nothing.
"Keep track of kills, shall we, lad?" Ostyn proposed.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"See which of us can slay the most Zhents?"
The younger Rider stared at him for a momentand then fainted dead away, his eyes rolling up as he slid limply from his saddle.
Florin made a grab for the falling Rider's shoulder, caught him, and snapped, "Get the reins, Ostyn!"
The older Rider did so, deftly, and they guided the mount to an ungainly halt.
The rearguard Riders caught them up. "One down already?" a fat, cheerful woman asked, looking at the limp form across Florin's lap. "We'll have to ask the Zhents to hold a thousand or so swords in reserve."
"You're volunteering to ask them?" Florin chuckled as they righted the young Rider in his saddle and shook him gently back to his senses.
"Never volunteer," Ostyn warned her.
"Actually," she said, indicating the reviving Rider with her sword, "I was going to nominate him."
The young Rider's eyes snapped open. He stared at her for a moment, face as white as a priest's vestment and then, still staring, slid out of his saddle again.
They let him fall to the ground this time, stared at each other, and sighed.
4 Softly Come the
"Hold up, there!"
One moment the road ahead was empty, but the next, a stern-looking, ragged crone with the largest, wartiest nose Torm had ever seen was standing calmly in front of his cantering horse, hand raised, bidding him halt.
Startled, the thief hauled hard on the reins. The war horse under him skidded in the dust as it reared, bugling, and came to a halt, lashing out with steel-shod hooves.
The woman regarded it calmly. "An excitable animaland you must be the illustrious Torm that the ladies of Twilight Hall have told me so much about." She turned away, hands on hips, and then turned back to him and asked curiously, "Did you really get a certain part of your anatomy caught in a closet door in Zhentil Keep, or was that just a fireside tale?"
Torm sputtered. He'd just noticed that the woman, in her kerchief and ragged dress, was standing in midair, her muddy, ill-fitting boots a good three feet off the ground. A merry gale of laughter came from Sharantyr, Belkram, and Sylune as they reined their mounts in around him. Itharr merely shook his head in smiling silence.
"Well met, Margrueth," Sylune said, eyes dancing in welcome. The old woman looked her up and down.
"Got yerself a new body, have you? Hmmph. No one
ALL SHADOWS FLED
offers me a new body to replace this old, aching barrel! I could get used to yours, really I could. Silver hair and all."
"You wouldn't want to go through what I have," Sylune told her softly. "Really, you wouldn't."
"Gods, girlI know that!" Margrueth told her. "I'm old and ugly, not witless! Just envious, that's all."
"If you're a sorceress," Torm asked her curiously, "why don't you choose any looks you want?"
Margrueth glared at him sourly. "That would work for snaring a man for a night of pleasureif, like some folk here, stolen nights of pleasure were what I wanted!"
She let the rebuke hang in the air between them, but Torm merely shrugged, so the old Harper went on. "Sooner or later, thoughwith my luck, soonerthe one I was with'd see the real me. I'd not hide it, mind; the real me is the one I'm proud of. Some of us value honesty over deceit."
"Some of us must be fools," Torm returned sharply, causing Rathan to chuckle as he slowed his horse to join the group of riders.
"Fool I may be," Margrueth told him, "but I could be in worse straits than this!" She gestured at her nose, and swept her hand down at her fat, shapeless body.
"How?" Torm asked, falling into the trap.
"I could have your looks," she told him sweetly, and turned away. Then she turned back again. "It did get caught in that door, didn't it?"
There was a general hoot of laughter, and Torm snarled and urged his mount forwardonly to find that the stout old woman flashed through the air to block his way once more.
"I stopped you for a reason, Lord Torm," she told him severely. "Beyond this point our traps start, and the road ceases to be safeeven for thieves with clever tongues and more luck than Tymora gives anyone! Yonder is Swords Creek."
ED GREENWOOD
Torm looked at the little rivulet meandering its muddy way across the fields, and asked curiously, "Why Swords Creek for our stand? Is it just a place easily found among all these fields?"
"Mistledale tradition," the captain of the Riders said from behind him. She brought her horse to a halt in a wild thudding of hooves. "On these hanks many battles were fought of old."
"And we Harpers've been here since yestereve, preparing it for one more," Margrueth added. "Water spells to make the ground sodden and turn wet spots into bogs to break Zhent cavalry charges, wild magic areas there and thereno, Torm, you can't see them for the foe to halt in, and suchlike."
* 'We Harpers'?" Torm asked. "Aside from you, I can see only two men."
"Ah, that's because they're not done yet," the old woman told him. The others're in hiding already."
"Hiding? Where?" Torm asked, looking around at apparently empty fields. "Are they all mages using invisibility?"
"No. Not one," she replied with a smile.
Torm shook his head. "There's not a man alive who could hide under my nose between here and that creek."
As the words left his lips, the thief felt a solid tap on his left bootand his war horse reared again. Cursing, Torm wrestled to keep it from leaping forward; he was struggling to head the snorting beast around, away from the creek, when Captain Nelyssa's strong arm caught hold of the bridle. The paladin pulled and whistled, and Term's mount quieted immediatelyallowing the thief to cleverly fall off.
As he bounced on his belly in the dust, Torm found himself staring eyeball to eyeball with the grinning cause of his upset: a dust-covered man buried neck-deep in the earth, who held a sword, hilt uppermost, in one hand. It must have been what had tapped his boot. In his other gauntleted hand, the man held a shield
ALL SHADOWS FLED
that had been so thickly covered with turf and grass that it had served to entirely conceal the hole he was crouching in.
"Ye gods!" Torm gasped.
"No, even being one god'd be a promotion, I think," the Harper replied cheerfully. "Fine morning to be out on the grass, 'taint it, Lord?"
The riders all around them roared with laughter at Term's expressionuntil the thief buried his nose in the grass and laughed along with them. He nodded to the Harper, rolled to a sitting position, and squinted up at Margrueth. "Right, then, I'll grant you the victory. So tell me how many more of these little holes have you scattered around Mistledale?"
Margrueth shook her head soberly. "That, I'll tell no one. Spying spells that listen to speech from afar aren't easily blocked out in the open."
Her words made them all look aroundbut aside from the two Harpers in the distance and Florin arriving with the Rider rearguard (one of them looking decidedly green), they could see no man or beast.
"But there's no one!" Torm said, waving a hand.
Margrueth shrugged. "There could be a small army of those mages using invisibility, young man. Think before you speak, and you'll not feel so often chastened."
Torm gave her a dark look, and then shook his head and grinned. "I begin to wish I'd had you as my mother."
"So do I, lad," Margrueth replied, "So do I. Your backside would've seen a lot more heat, and valuables belonging to others and good-looking ladies a lot less, in the years since."
"Hmmm," Torm replied with rueful eloquence, and there was more laughter.
"Oh, bloody bats! It's gone wrong againand they're all laughingF
ED GREENWOOD
"Not at ye," the older man said, watching the young man fling down the tangled trip wire in fury, his fingers trembling in agitated excitement. "Easy, lad," the gray-haired Harper ranger added. "Time for all that falling and dancing about an' all laterwhen ye've a sword in yer hand an' several hundred Zhents taking their turn at ye."
"How can you be so calm about it?" his younger companion protested. "We're going to die!"
Level brown eyes stared into his. "Aye, so? We all have to, lad, but there's nothing as says we have to behave like craven cattle first." The old man deftly disentangled the thread and held it out. "An' another thing," he continued, "I've been in about forty o' these little affrays before, an' them as came to kill me haven't quite managed the job yet. It might well take 'em as many tries afore they get ye, too! I've seen it all before, lad . . . take heart, and be easy, I say."
The young man stared into those level brown eyes, took a deep breath, and then bent and tied the trip wire-quickly and surely. Then he stepped back with a flourish, smiled tightly at the gray-haired Harper, and said, "Done. I hope you remember where our hide is."
"Here, under my boot," the older man said with a smile. "Another trick you'd do well to remember."
"Bloody bats to you, too," the younger Harper said almost affectionately, scrambling down into the pit they'd dug. The old man followed, waving to Margrueth as he reached for the turf-covered shield that would hide them from the world.
But Margrueth wasn't looking at him. She was looking up, frowning at a raven circling in the bright morning sky high above. She said something to Sylune, who lifted one shapely arm to hurl magic up into the skya spell that was never cast.
The raven came out of its lazy circle like an arrow, streaking south and east. But from the blue emptiness high above came another bird, a steel-gray falcon with
ALL SHADOWS FLED
talons outstretched. It struck like a hammer, and then flapped up and away in triumph amid a cloud of black feathers. For just a moment, the watchers below caught a glimpse of silver hair and tattered black robes, and then the slayer was a falcon once more.
Even as Torm gasped, "The Simbul!" the falcon's kill fell to earth, twisting and growing as it plummeted.
It was the broken body of a black-robed human wizard that crashed into one muddy bank of Swords Creek. The mage flopped bonelessly once, and then lay sprawled and still. One Zhentarim would never spy on Mistledale again.
The old Harper looked back up at the sky. "Well, I lied to ye," he said to the stunned young Harper beside him. "I hadn't seen it all before. I've seen gales and fog and lances of lightning leaping across the skybut I've never seen it rain wizards before!"
Ordulin, Sembia, Flamerule 16
The morning sun sent bright rays through the casement of tinted glass, casting a many-hued image of light upon the floor furs. That meant it was past time for clients of the Winking Will-o'-the-Wisp Pleasure Palace to be gone so linen could be washed, ladies could bathe and sleep, and coins could be safely exchanged at the nearest bank for soft metal trade tokens stamped with the sunburst symbol of the house.
The occupants of the Red Sash Room on the third floor, however, could not have cared less about the hourfor very different reasons. One of those occupants was Baedelkar the Thaumaturge, rising hope of the Zhentarim, who held the Lady of the Red Sash in his arms as if he never intended to let her go.
Her milk-white skin was soft and smooth against him, and her kisses warm and sweet, with the faintest
$7
ED GREENWOOD
hint of exotic spices . . . nutmeg? Dunbark? Cinnamon? Ah, but it mattered not.
At that ardent moment, a fist fell upon the other side of the bolted door. It was an imperious fist, but the door was thick and carpeted to steal away sound, and the couple within, seated together on the edge of the large circular bed, did not want to hear it. Their lips met again, and clung.
The fist, however, was persistent. Another blow fell upon the door, and then another, and so on, until they were joined by a softly menacing, magically sent voice: "I know you're within, Baedelkar. The Inner Circle has need of us both, immediately. We've been ordered to join the Sword, somewhere north of Essembra, right now."
After a momentary, answering silence (during which the Lady of the Red Sash murmured and moved in Baedelkar's arms) the voice went on: "Neither High Lord Manshoon nor I am used to waiting . . . for an apprentice. Presently one or both of us shall grow weary of it, Baedelkarand then it will be too late for you to continue as a Zhentarim ... or anything else."
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge cursed in a soft whisper with feeling, and made as if to pull free . . . but the large, sapphire eyes staring into his pleaded with him, and sweet lips begged, "Just one more kiss, proud lord ... a brief parting, until we meet again." Those lips lifted longingly toward his.
Baedelkar hesitated for only a moment before he bent his head hungrily forward. It was the last mistake he ever made.
The arms caressing his back seemed stronger and broader, the tongue in his mouth thicker. Starting to choke, the Zhentarim tried to pull away, but found that he was locked in an embrace as unyielding as steel, and tentacles were sliding around him. The eyes so close to his held a horrible flame of triumph as the flesh of her exquisite face bulged and moved, flowing up and over his own visage, covering his nose even as the cold and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
questing tentacle that had been a velvet-smooth tongue flowed down his throat, choking him. And preventing him from uttering even the simplest spell.
Baedelkar the Thaumaturge struggled in earnest, then, fighting with sudden desperation against the death embracing him. A red roaring rose up in his head, and creeping flesh rolled over his eyes, blotting out his last glimpse of Faeruna sun-splashed room and those malevolent, glittering eyes in a face that had become a nightmare of flowing flesh....
Bane aid me... Bane aid me ... Bane ...
"Right, Baedelkar," the cultured voice beyond the door snarled, suddenly losing its drawling grace. "You've defied me long enough! I hope you'll still think she was worth it, after I dothisF
The wizard's body began to shake violently, and pulse with light. The tentacled thing hurriedly flung it back onto the bed and flowed away across the room, to where the wizard's robe lay across a discarded body harness: a thing of leather straps that held a slim satchel of potion vials, several bulging pouches of sundries to spin spells, and ... a small, well-worn spellbook with battered metal corners.
The creeping thing flowed up and over this heap of magic and, without slowing, turned and slithered along the wall. In its wake, the wizard's belongings were gone, the side chest bare. Meanwhile, the body on the bed jerked and thrashed in spell thrall, and then leapt up into the air once and crashed down in limp silence.
As tentacles hurriedly tore open the casements and let the chill air of morning into the room, there was a snarl of fury from beyond the doorand then a muttered incantation. It rose to a singing final word, and then came ominous silence.
The monstrous, shapeshifting mass flowed out the window and up the wall outside, disappearing from the room seconds before the gilded door of the Red Sash Room burst apart in a rain of dust and splinters.
ED GREENWOOD
Nentor Thuldoum of the Zhentarim stood in the doorway, blinking in incredulous rage.
"You worm! You disobedient ti" Nentor's fury fled as he saw what lay on the bed. His jaw dropped, and he stared down in horror at the riven remains. His spell had scorched Baedelkar with a lashing lightning, but should not have eaten away body and brains from within, leaving behind a shriveled husk . . . and empty eye sockets.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
Thuds and splinterings resounded across Swords Creek as the defenders of Mistledale drove tree trunks into the ground in an outward curve west of the stream. A steady stream of wagons was creaking east along the road from Ashabenford as Riders watched the land to the east for any sign of the approaching foe.
"Leave openings there and there" Kuthe directed as Riders swarmed past him in pairs, carrying logs. Beyond them, more of the black-armored men were hewing the ends of the sloped stakes into sharp points. "I hope well need room to ride out into the fray in force."
"/ hope the Zhents fall dead of the blistering plague and we don't have a fray at all," a farmer muttered, snapping his reins to begin the run back to town for more supplies. He stood up as the empty wagon rattled away, looking around the busy camp, and shaking his head. Not a hundred swords to defend Mistledale againsthow many? Two, three thousand, or more? The word from Essembra was that they'd outgrown all the beds in the place a tenday ago, with not a third of the force mustered. The Sword of the South, indeed and they'd have a Zhentarim wizard or three with them, too.
He looked back at the camp once more and spat
ALL SHADOWS FLED
thoughtfully into the rising road dust. An army this small wouldn't delay the Zhent host more than an hour or two on its march to Mistledale. Death might well come for him before dusk todaybut where was there to run? He couldn't pluck up his steading and stow it in a pack to take with him. Stand or fall, it'd be here, in Mistledale, where he'd lived his life. The fanner slowed the wagon to make his trip back down the dale as long as he couldit might be his last look around at the finest place to dwell in all Faerun. He tried not to think about the likelihood that by sundown tomorrow it might also be the finest graveyard in Faerun.
A steel-gray falcon circled high in the cloudless sky overhead, for all the world as if it was taking interest in the encampment taking shape by the creek. The farmer squinted up at it, spat again, and went down the dale toward Ashabenford, where the high councilor would be waving his black scepter and barking orders. Heedless of him, wagoners would load in haste and head east, and fleeing townsfolk would drive overloaded carts west.
The breezes died away to the softest of stirrings, what the folk of the dale called a ghost's kiss. By the banks of the creek, a tall, broad-shouldered man in gleaming plate armor looked around the palisade of wooden fangs and saw that it was now almost a full circle. He nodded in satisfaction and turned to where a farmer stood by his laden wagon.
"Bring the tents," Florin Falconhand said to the man. "We'd best get started."
Kuthe frowned at the tall ranger. "This soon?"
"I doubt they'll attack before dark," the Knight of Myth Drannor replied. "Before they could get here, it'll be sundown; they'd have to charge with the setting sun in their eyes."
Kuthe grunted his agreement and turned away. "No cooking fires until the tents are up!" he bellowed, "and don't drop those barrels of beer or I'll leave you to face
ED GREENWOOD
the men who have to go thirsty!"
"Noisy, isn't he?" Torm muttered, critically inspecting the wicked-looking point he'd whittled on the end of one stake.
"A paragon of authority," Rathan grunted, taking a swig from his belt flask. "I've no quarrel if he's as much in evidence when we start hacking at each other in the mud and the blood." He took another pull at the flask, which gurgled.
Torm looked up at the sound. "Hey! Give that here," he suggested, extending a hand.
"What's this?" Kuthe growled, striding past. "Drinking?" His eyes flashed.
"He sees the flask and instantly knows what we're doing!" Torm gasped in mock fear. "Can no man stand against this tower of perception?"
"I fear not," Rathan growled. "He makes my boots quake, and me in them. Wits as keen as a sword bladeand tongue sharper, too!" Both Knights threw up their hands as if in awe and cowered, wailing.
"Bah!" the Rider officer snarled, and turned away. "Adventurers!"
"Bah!" Torm called after him, his mimicry perfect. "Stiff-necked local constabulary!"
Kuthe stiffened as more than one of the Riders around them chuckled, but did not turn around. After a moment, he strode on.
"Hind end of a blind boar," Torm muttered conversationally as they moved to the next stake.
"Torm's entertaining himself as usual, I see," Sharantyr observed to Sylune as they worked on their own stakes not far away.
The Witch of Shadowdale grinned. "He doesn't know it yet, but I volunteered him for digging the privies."
Sharantyr sighed. "You use the ladies' first, then. I've no wish to be the one who tries out his latest collection of 'humorous' traps."
"Does he do that to the pit for the men, too?" Itharr
ALL SHADOWS FLKD
asked, looking up from the fire pit he and Belkram were digging. Sharantyr looked over at him and nodded. "Ah, thanks for the warning," the Harper grunted, and knelt to begin lining the pit with stones.
A pair of men in black armor emblazoned with the white horse of Mistledale approached with two large, rope-wrapped canvas bundles. "Your tent," the Riders told Itharr, "and one for the ladies."
"One is all well need," Sharantyr said serenely, moving to the last unsharpened stake. "I'm used to the snores of these two by now."
The Rider raised his eyebrows and looked her up and down. Sharantyr raised her own eyebrows in reply, and said coolly, "I'm an adventurer, remember?"
The man rolled his eyes and turned away, face expressionless behind his bristling mustache. His companion growled "Lucky dogs" quite distinctly as they went on down the line of stakes.
"If you knew," Belkram said to the Riders' backs. "If you only knew."
"I heard that," Sylune said warningly, and both Harpers looked up at her with such looks of bewildered innocence that she giggled.
Sharantyr puzzled out how the ropes were tangled, and got the tent unrolled. She hummed a merry tune as she laid it out, shaking her head to clear her nostrils of the strongand expectedreek of mildew. Such things were always put away damp. She critically surveyed the forest-green tent and its white horse blazon. "Does someone in the dale run a camp for bored Sembian nobles?"
"Aye," Belkram told her as the two Harpers came to join her, expertly plucking the poles out of the heart of the rumpled canvas. "But they're under the misapprehension that they're just housing the short-coin laborers who arrive each harvest to help get the crop off the fields . . . it's not until they see their hired help at work in the fields that they realize how many bored Sembian nobles they're carrying."
ED GREENWOOD
Sharantyr chuckled at that as Belkram held the tent up with one pole, and Itharr crawled inside to raise it from within. "I could get used to having both of you gallant blades around," she said affectionately, fielding the tangle of tent rope that Sylune tossed to her.
"Just two of us? Is that enough to keep up with you?" Belkram asked with a grin.
"On some mornings," Sharantyr said, thrusting over his head the emptied sack that had held the tent pegs. "On some mornings."
"Mmpnffh," he replied firmly.
"Exactly what I was going to say," Itharr agreed, head emerging from the half-raised tent. "Mmphffh."
Sharantyr and Sylune sighed, smiled, and shook their heads in unison.
"Get him a bag, too," Torm suggested, pointing at Itharr as he walked past. "Me, too, and Rathan. After all, you know what they sayall men're the same with a bag over"
"Enough, Torm!" Sylune said, and snapped her fingers. The thief vanished in midstep, and they heard his surprised "Hoy!" of protest from the far end of the camp as he reappeared, looked around, and started back toward them.
"Poor Torm," Sharantyr said, watching him. "I wonder if hell ever grow into dignity and polite manners? I suppose he must grow up someday."
"For some of us," Sylune observed serenely, "it's a long walk."
Battledale, Flamerule 16
There was a sudden flash of emerald radiance from the empty saddle ahead, and Swordlord Amglar stiffened, hand going to the hilt of his swordjust in case.
Spellmaster Myarvuk rode ahead of the hitherto
(54
ALL SHADOWS FLED
unladen horse, the mount under him linked to it by a long lead. Now he was twisting around to see what had befallen, clinging to his saddle in an ungainly attempt not to fall off. Amglar watched him in grim amusement. These wizards all rode with the grace and balance of lumpy sacks of feedand if the expression on Myarvuk's face was any guide, about as much comfort.
As both men stared at the green light pulsing and growing stronger in the saddle, Amglar watched the Zhentarim mage's tense face . . . until, suddenly, he knew the new thing he was seeing there: fear.
A second empty-saddled horse pulled its lead free and galloped off to the right. The swordlord's gaze darted to it, but no radiance or other sign of magic appeared. If the gods smiled, perhaps there'd only be one high Zhentarim joining them.
Of course, given what utter ice-hearted bastards all powerful mages of the Black Network were, one was more than enough.
The emerald light had built into the shape of a seated man now, and the swordlord sighed amid the endless thunder of hooves. The rest of his time with the Sword of the South was not going to be enjoyableand might well encompass the rest of his life, given the ruthless and sensitive nature of senior Zhentarim.
The green radiance flashed and faded, revealing a richly cloaked man who sat his saddle as if he'd always been thereand was already looking grimly about, his face as black as old night.
At least this one could ride. Amglar forced a grim half smile onto his own face as the Zhent wizard turned to look behind him.
"For the glory of Zhentil Keep," the swordlord said in formal welcome. The wizard merely nodded curtly and turned his head away. Oh, joy. Getting this one to take the slightest notice of orders was going to be nigh impossible. Best start wading into the blood now, then. Amglar reined his horse in beside the galloping wizard.
Eo GREENWOOD
"Lord Manshoon sends his greetings, Spellmaster Thuldoum," Amglar said loudly, keeping his voice calm and unhurried. Young Myarvuk had lost his title, of course, the moment his superior here had arrived.
"Give me his message," Thuldoum said in bored tones, extending a gloved hand. "I do hope to find it still sealed."
"No message," Amglar returned calmly as they thundered on up the road toward the Standing Stone. "Manshoon farspoke me, and bade me pass on his feelings." If this warning had no effect, things were going to be a royal muddle from now on.
"I see," the senior Zhentarim replied in tones of clear disbelief. Amglar shrugged, letting the man see his gesture. Of course, most Zhentarim would see such nonchalance as the bravado of a fool, not the confidence of a man secure in his power. He was just going to have to educate this one differently.
"Myarvuk," the new arrival snapped grimly, obviously short on patience, "Baedelkar will not be joining us. Your duties will now include his."
The younger Zhentarim nodded in expressionless silence; Amglar knew he was wondering if this cheerful newcomer had been the cause of Baedelkar's disappearanceand if one Myarvuk would be the next wizard to drop out of sight forever when Nentor Thuldoum grew displeased.
He'd never worked with the man before, but knew that Thuldoum had been deadly in battle while riding out of the Citadel of the Raven against brigands, Thent-ian freehands, and all manner of goblinkin and monsters of Thar. Later the senior Zhentarim had come to Zhentil Keep to train battle mages for the Network; "Dull Doom" he'd been to his apprentices, due to his dry, studious manner and the short, ruthless temper it concealed. Not a man to cross. Nonetheless, Myarvuk, son of Thaelon, was going to do just that. Starting, in a small way, now.
<5<5
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"What was Baedelkar's fate?" Myarvuk asked, with the most casual 'I'd better know' tone he could muster.
"Dead," Nentor said shortly, "slain in his bed by"  he shrugged to indicate that his next words were a guess  "something he must have tried to summon." His mouth shut like a falling portcullis, making it plain that no more would be forthcoming about his absent apprentice. Then he turned his head to glare at Amglar again.
"Swordlord," he snapped, making it sound as if he'd been asking for it repeatedly and was growing impatient, "I await your report of the doings of the Sword thus far. Come up here where I can see you."
Amglar inclined his head in slow, silent acquiescence, and spurred his mount forward. Yes, it was going to be a long road to Shadowdale. . . .
Glorious Victories ARC ELtisioe Things
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, Flamerule 16
"Snug, my lord?" Shaerl asked, tightening the straps that held the plates around Mourngrym's upper thighs.
"Keep your fingers on the buckles," the lord of Shadowdale told his wife with an affectionate grin, reaching down to tousle her hair. They were alone in their bedchamber in the Tower of Ashaba, hiding Mourngrym's wounds from the wagging tongues of rumor. He didn't want half of Shadowdale fleeing because they'd heard he was dead.
It had been a very near thing. Without Blminster, Storm, or Sylune to hand, with the temples already crammed to the rafters with wounded, and with Lhaeo busy ransacking the heavily trapped cellars of Elmin-ster's Tower in search of healing potions and weapons, there were few people left in the dale who could deal with wounds caused by poisoned blades. A white-faced Shaerl had spent a long evening cutting open her lord, tears and his blood mingling together on her face as she brushed errant locks of hair out of her eyes and bent repeatedly to her grisly task.
Mourngrym winced as she forced a sideplate over the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
quilted undertunic on his ribs, which bulged where they shouldn't because of the bandages beneath. "Sorry, Mourn," she muttered, feeling his muscles tighten under her hands.
The lord of Shadowdale let out a sigh. "Don't be. Without you I'd be dead right now, and the dale fallen."
Shaerl made a rude noise. "Such dramatics! Do you think I'd flee or put a dagger in my heart if you died, when your killers and those who sent them will come marching into my reach in a few days?"
Mourngrym smiled and put out a handthe one without the gauntletto the side of her face, tilting her jaw up so that he could kiss her.
His wife, the fiery temper of her noble Rowanmantle upbringing lurking not far behind her eyes, kissed him with ardent passion, locking her fingers in his hair to ensure that this wouldn't be a brief brush of lips.
"Try not to get carved up this time," she chided him when she released him at last. "I don't want to spend another night like yestereve."
"As the dancer said to the high priest," Mourngrym murmured. Shaerl sighed at this, her lord's habit of lame Waterdhavian humor, and handed him his helm, sword, and remaining gauntlet.
Nodding in acknowledgment, the lord of Shadowdale said, "Now I really must get to horse." He strode awaybut before he'd taken three paces, she'd slipped around to bar his path, a slim but imperious hand slapped hard against the Amcathra arms emblazoned on his breastplate.
"Sword and gauntlet on and in place before you go out that doorand the helm before you set foot outside the tower. I don't want to be married to a headless man. They're not quite talkative enough."
Mourngrym sighed, smiled, and did as he was bid. It was easiest to comply, as always, and his sharp-tongued mate was rightas always. Who was to say a Zhent agent, or merely someone in need of the coins they'd
ED GREENWOOD
pay, wasn't lurking a bowshot away from the tower, or in a balcony above the courtyard, awaiting his chance?
These past two rides Zhent raiders had kept Shadow-dale's defenders busy fighting off several attempts to burn the dale's smithy and granaries. There had also been the setting of several fires along the roads into the dale, no doubt to widen them and rob defenders of any cover; the attempt to taint the River Ashaba upstream by dumping carrion into it; and the poison dumped into the well of the Old Skull Innwhich had forced Lhaeo to call on the Simbul and endure her acidic lecture on placing a guard over basic necessities. The problem was that Mourngrym had too few competent guards to do that, let alone hold' Shadowdale against thousands of well-equipped Zhentilar troops led by gods-knew-how-many Zhent priests and mages.
"Wouldn't it be nice," he asked Shaerl as he settled the sword on his hip and she surveyed the result critically, "if some mad god or other would just crush Zhen-til Keep to rubble for us?"
"Ill see to it," she told him briskly, "but I'd take it more kindly if they'd settle for simply crushing the hosts on their way here to slaughter us ... and if I knew where Elminster was just now."
"Boo!" breathed an all-too-familiar voice on the back of her neck.
Shaerl shrieked as she leapt forward into Mourn-grym's arms. The lord of Shadowdale began to laugh helplessly, shaking his ladyand she broke free and spun like a dancer on one small bare foot to confront the Old Mage, her eyes snapping with anger.
"Must you always creep up on folks invisibly and then try to startle them with grand entrances?"
"Everyone needs a hobby, look ye," Elminster said, regarding her with eyes that sparkled in amusement, "and that's one of mine."
"Well, find another! Gods! My heart's stillfeel it! It's"
7O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"No, love," Mourngrym said hastily as the gleam in Elminster's eye grew brighter, "you don't want to make that sort of offer! Not with Elminster!"
Shaerl turned on him. "And you! Laughing at my discomfort, like a boy playing in the street! You ought to be"
"Somewhere quieter," Mourngrym said sarcastically, striding past her, "like the heart of a battle with the entire Zhent army!"
Shaerl made a gesture in his direction. Mourngrym waggled one steel-clad finger at her in mock admonishment, and went out.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed away her exasperation and turned back to Elminster. "Be welcome, Old Mage," she said softly. "I'd appreciate a chance to talk about what lies ahead for us, if you've the time."
" Tis why I came," Elminster rumbled, "now that my work at the Standing Stone is done: three arrow swarms, and a little something extra." He went straight to Mourngrym's most comfortable chair and sat down with a grunt of pleasure, swinging his feet up over one of its massive arms.
Shaerl smiled at that and started toward the sideboard where the decanters of wine awaitedbut she'd taken only a few steps before a full goblet of her favorite vintage came gliding up to hang in the air in front of her. She took it, turned, and saw Elminster raising an identical drink in salute. "To a lady who does not take serious contributions from idiots," he announced.
Shaerl grinned, shook her head slightly, and returned his toast. "To a wizard who takes more delight in misbehaving than does a small childand is all the more welcome here for it."
They both drank. Shaerl discovered the bottom of her glass, shrugged, and continued to the sideboard to take up the decanter. She had a feeling she was going to want a lot more of this before they were done. . . .
+ 71 +
ED GREENWOOD
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 16
"Dusk comes swiftly," Swordlord Amglar told the two wizards, pointing at the red sun glimmering low in the west.
"We press on," Nentor Thuldoum told him coldly. "If we try to camp at the Standing Stone, we'll be in the trees or strung out along three roadsand we can be attacked along each one."
"So much is common knowledge," Amglar agreed calmly. "I merely wish to point out that if we press on to Mistledale, it'll be dark by the time we ride out of the treesideal conditions for our foes to ambush us."
The spellmaster turned on him with menacing slowness. "Are you trying to tell me what to do?"
"Yes," Amglar said evenly, locking eyes with him. "That's exactly what I'm trying to do. Manshoon does expect you to take orders from me; his description of you, as I recall, was 'a fool, but a biddable fool.' Shall I report to him that he was wrong?"
Thuldoum held his eyes for a long, cold moment as their saddles creaked under them. Myarvuk, riding just ahead, hummed a tune, trying to pretend he could hear nothing of this. Thuldoum said softly, "I'm watching you, Swordlord. Watching and waiting for the slightest slip, the smallest excuse ... be careful. Be very, very careful."
Amglar raised his eyebrows, but his face remained expressionless. "I always am," he said, and the spell-master could have sworn that the warrior's eyes held a glint of mocking laughter.
Then they were slowing to round the turn onto the Moonsea Ride under the watchful bulk of the ancient Standing Stone. There was a brief confusion as mounted Zhentilar armsmen looked back expecting orders to halt, heard nothing, and rather tentatively con-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
tinued, heading west toward Mistledale.
The rings on the spellmaster's hands winked with sudden radiance, and the air all around was filled with humming arrows. Shafts leapt from the trees on their left, hissing into startled men and their mounts alike, easily piercing black Zhentilar armor.
"We're under attack!" someone bellowed.
"Dismount! Into the trees therecharge!" Amglar shouted, pointing with his sword. "In at them!"
His orders made Spellmaster Thuldoum turn to him, and Amglar saw that the wizard was staring down at his rings in astonishment. As they looked at each other, the rings flashed againand another volley of arrows came hissing out of the trees on the other side of the road.
Amglar's eyes narrowed as he ducked low on his horse's neck, but it was too late to stop the rush of furious armsmen into the trees, charging in as he'd ordered. Horses screamed and reared, and men toppled from saddles everywhere in the tangled intersection. The swordlord fought to stay in his saddle.
"Back, mages!" he bellowed, waving with his sword toward the Standing Stone itself. "Back!"
By some favor of the gods, neither Zhentarim had been hit; they spurred their horses after him, ruthlessly riding down armsmen in their haste. "Swordcap-tains, to me!" Amglar roared as he reached the trees to the east, his eyes on the woods to the north. If his hunch was right, there'd be no more arrows from therenor any other attack.
"Is this your doing, mage?" he snarled when a frightened-looking spellmaster rode up to him.
"No!" Thuldoum barked. "If these arrows are spell-borne, it's not a magic I know! I"
His rings flashed once more. He was staring down at them in horror when the trees on the eastern side of the road erupted in clothyard shafts! An arrow took Amglar through the shoulder, and another three thudded into
73
ED GREENWOOD
his charger. Yelling in pain and fury, he flung himself free as it bucked and went down, crashing over backward atop an unfortunate armsman.
He hit the road hard and bounced in the dust, winded. Myarvuk slid from his saddle, half a dozen shafts standing out from his body and a glazed, lifeless stare in his eyes. Gods spit on itthe truly biddable mage down already!
As Amglar fought for his breath, arrows flared into flames and then nothingness around the spellmaster, who must have some sort of magical shield against themof course, Amglar thought sourly. But the volley tore into the officers turning in answer to his call. The intersection was full of rolling, maddened horses and sprawled, trampled bodies ... in just a few breaths half an army had been reduced to bloody chaos.
"Halt!" Amglar roared, struggling to his feet, arm and shoulder burning. He ran into the path of the second 'lance,' just as they came thundering up the road to see what had occurred. "Halt!"
He staggered hastily backa thousand cantering horses can't stop immediatelytripped on a body, and with a roar of pain fetched up against a tree.
"Sir?" A swordcaptain asked, beside him. Through red mists of pain, Amglar set his teeth and looked up. Blood was coursing down his arm, bright red on the black armor; he clutched at his arm and snarled, "Get a horn and call the rally and retreat to those I sent into the woods. They'll not find a foe unless they run on all the way to the dale! Then relay the order to halt! On your way, send three or four more captains to me!"
The man nodded and hurried away, wasting no time on salutes or words. Amglar glared after him. Good. At least one Zhentilar knew how to be an officer; he'd have to remember that man's face.
Feeling the spellmaster's eyes on him but paying no attention, Amglar strode to meet the officers who were hurrying toward him. "Clear this place," he ordered.
74
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Drag everything up the north road, and set torches; we'll strip the bodies later. Slay any horse that can't stand on four good legs. Let no man touch the fallen magethat task is for the spellmaster alone." Without turning his head, he snapped, Thuldoum! Be about it."
The Zhentarim said nothing, but Amglar heard the creaking of leather as the wizard dismounted, and a snort of irritation from the man's horse as someone else took the reins.
"I want you to know," the spellmaster said in a low, fast voice, "that I had no part in this attack. It was not my doingand nothing I carry has any power to hurl arrows anywhere!"
"I know, mage," Amglar said shortly. "It was some sort of arrow spellthree spells, belikeset to go off when something enchanted passed by: your rings. They're probably rolling around laughing in Mistledale right now. See to your dead comrade."
He walked away without looking at the Zhentarim and headed to the front of the lance that had halted on the road. He would tell them to dismount and set a watch in the trees in case there were archers or rangers lurking out there.
Dead men lay heaped underfoot. Someone was groaning weakly under a pile of bodies off to the right. Amglar scowled. A swordlord's lot is not a happy one.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
"Who goes?" The challenge came out of the night. The voice sounded young and eager, and its owner was probably holding a loaded crossbow. Jhessail sighed and spoke quickly before Illistyl or Merith could say anything smart. "Owls are blue tonight," she told the darkness calmly. "Kuthe's patrol, with three Knights of Myth Drannor. I am Jhessail of Shadowdale."
ED GREENWOOD
"Pass, Lady," the voice said, sounding suddenly respectful, even wistful.
An admirer, then, probably a Harper. Merith laid a hand on his lady's thigh and squeezed. Leaning close, the elf whispered, "Men who lust after you are everywhere in the Realms, it seems. Truly I am fortunate to have arrived in your arms first, and"
"Oh, do belt up, dear," Jhessail said, grinning.
"Aye," Illistyl's sharp tones came out of the close darkness on Jhessail's other side. "And forthwith, before I spew!"
"If ye can stand the company of the two blades she's picked up, who both fancy themselves cleverBelkram and Itharr of the HarpersSharantyr's left room and a warm fire for ye," the gruff tones of Rathan came to them out of the night.
"Kind of her," Jhessail said, "but we're going right back out after we feed and hobble our horses. We're going to be a little surprise in the Zhentarim backside on the morrow!"
"Ye'll probably lift a few eyebrows hereabouts, too, if ye try charging on hobbled horses!" Rathan chuckled.
"We're leaving the horses here, you dolt," Jhessail told him affectionately. "Where's Term?"
"He felt restless, and wanted to go 'exploring,' as he put it," the burly priest replied. "So I gave him a little too much wine and smote him one. He'll wake before dawn, in. just the right mood for a good battle."
"I'm glad it's you who shares a tent with him," Illistyl said feelingly.
"I'll be only too happy to surrender my sleeping furs to thee, gentle maid," Rathan said eagerly, "and I'm sure Term won't object in the slightest!"
"Ah, ha!" Illistyl agreed flatly. "I doubt he'd mind, indeed." She rode on, turning to add, "111 save my furious defenses for the fray tomorrow."
"I rather think we all will, lass," the elderly voice of a dale farmer came gruffly out of the nearby darkness.
76
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Or we'll be dead before another night comes down on the Realms."
*****
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 16
"Galath's Roost is the only logical place to camp for the nightthat's the problem," Swordlord Amglar said to the silent ring of officers around the map.
"What problem?" Spellmaster Thuldoum said sharply. For some hours now, he'd been trying to overcome his own fright and whispers of incompetence or disloyalty by playing the sharp-tongued aggressor. Everyone in earshot was tired of it.
"I mean, wizard," Amglar explained in wearily patient tones that brought secret smiles to the lips of a few swordcaptains, "that it's the place our foes expect us. Just as they knew we'd pass by this spot."
He waved at the road behind them and the dark and silent bulk of the Standing Stone beyond. Three hundred armsmen and six score war horses lay dead along the north road, heaped cottage-high under the stars . . . and already the wolves were howling, nearer each time. Amglar tried not to think of the fallen. The dead were beyond his orders; it was the living he had to worry about.
"So?" the Zhentarim said coolly. "They hardly have enough blades to hold a ruin against us, even in the dark. And my spells can make it bright as day, so our archers can keep to the night and strike down well-lit targets as they please."
"I'm thinking there'll be traps there, not defenders," Amglar said heavily. "I don't suppose you can see into the place from here, can you? Or better: let our veteran swordcaptains look at things. They'll know traps better than either of us." To say anything else might make this Spellmaster hurl spells in a fury, and after
ED GREENWOOD
what had befallen so far, that would be all the Sword of the South needed.
The Zhentarim was shaking his head. "No, it's much too far to send an eye. I'd have to have seen the hold before with my own eyes to scry it with any of the other magics I carry."
"You've nothing that can help us?" One of the three lancecaptains said, not bothering to keep the contempt out of his voice. The spellmaster made a silent show of looking him up and down and committing his face to memory, but all of them knew any hostile move the wizard made in this gathering would result in his death. Not a few of the personal belt daggers around the map would be poisoned, too.
"You're a brave man, sir of the lance," Nentor Thuldoum said in silken tones, "if a foolhardy one. A wizard of the Network always has something that can be turned to use, and it's always more than his foesand others," he added pointedly, staring around at the impassive soldiers' faces, "expect. I have a spell ready that can create a beast to explore the ruins for us ... but only I will be able to see through its eyes."
"And if there's an enemy wizard at the Roost?" Amglar asked quietly. "Will such a one be able to see you through itand send any magic through you, to strike us here?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "In fact, it's unlikely that any wizard who meets my creature will escape alive."
"Cast your spell, then," Amglar ordered, his voice riding over a murmur of disbelief at the wizard's words from the officers. "The sooner we know, the sooner we can act."
"Stand back," the wizard said curtly. "All of you." He drew himself up and glared around at the black-armored menand their sullen faces. "Let no man disturb my casting, on pain of death. Lord Manshoon's standing orders apply here as in the Keep."
By the time the last of those words left his mouth,
78
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Nentor Thuldoum stood alone in the center of an open space perhaps twelve paces across, ringed by a warily silent audience. He looked around at them and smiled. Good; the more who saw this, the better.
From the safe pouch at his belt, Thuldoum drew a small sphere of blown glass that held a veined, gelatinous mass trapped in its heart. He held it on his fingertips, and for the benefit of the assembled soldiers murmured an incantation that was far longer and more impressive than it needed to be.
Then he made a dramatic and totally unnecessary gesture, and blew the sphere gently out of his palm. It plunged to the hard-trodden earth in front of him and burst with a tiny singing sigh.
A drunken man's nightmare boiled up from where it had been, growing with frightening speed, rearing up until it was larger than a horse. Men gasped and backed away in gratifying alarm; the spellmaster smiled tightly at them and pointed west and a little south, into the trees. His creation gathered itself up and drifted obediently off across the road, soldiers scrambling to get out of its way.
It was a shapeless bulk of translucent gray-white jelly that swam and flowed constantly. Countless staring eyes and silently snapping mouths slid across its changing outer surface, appearing and disappearing with bewildering speed.
"A mouther!" one of the veteran armsmen gasped. The drifting thing did look like the deadly gibbering mouther of yore . . . though no gibberer had ever risen man-high off the ground and flown about at a wizard's bidding, so far as Thuldoum knew.
Then it was gone into the trees, and his world became a place of dark trunks and branches and shifting shadows, looming up before him, thick and tangled. . . .
"Bring me a seat," he said, not breaking his vision from his creation, "and something safe to drink. Someone who knows traps and castles should stand by me,
79
ED GREENWOOD
toowe'll both have questions to ask each other when my creature reaches the Roost."
*   *   *   *
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule 16
Galath's Roost had been blasted apart four centuries ago by mages who knew their business. Since that day, the small keep atop its stony height had been swallowed by the forest. Massive duskwoods and cedars rent what was left of its walls and yet held them up, their trunks cupping chambers that were open to the sky and walls that ran to nowhere. Their leaves all but hid the riven keep from view . . . but if one stood a little way off and in just the right spot, the faint flicker of a fire glimmered through the trees.
The room whence the fire came had one wall open to the nightbut the two pilgrims who'd built the fire and now huddled around it had good and prudent reasons for not choosing any of the better-preserved rooms in the Roost. They were discussing that now.
"A good job, they did," the taller one said grudgingly.
"You're certain they left this room safe?" asked the other, clutching his expensive talisman of the god under his chin. The gilded image of Tyr's warhammer and scales shone back the firelight, serene and unchanging.
"All but that door," the first one replied, pointing. "If you go out that, a very large crate of rubble will fall on you."
"Ah," said the other. "I'd best go water the gods' gardens out the way we came in, then." He sipped from a battered tin cup, making no move to get up, and added, "A good thing we found that cellar, or they'd have seen us, sure."
"That was no cellar," his tall, lean companion chuckled, scratching under his much-patched tunic. "That was the castle cesspit."
8O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"What?" the shorter pilgrim said, staring down at his boots and then at his elbows and his cloakbut finding no foulness. "Is my nose as bad as all that, then?"
"After four hundred years," his companion told him kindly, "dung is just dust."
"Huh," the shorter pilgrim agreed, and launched into a dry chuckle that ended in a fit of coughing. "I guess the Realms're covered deep in old dung, then. Urrrgh. Aiiuh." These last two comments accompanied a grunting attempt to risean attempt that ended in a disgusted wave of one dirty hand, and a return to a more or less comfortable lounging position against a pile of moss-cloaked rubble.
In all the activity, neither devotee of Tyr noticed a dark, many-eyed bulk slithering silently out of the night, over the stones in the ruined end of the room. As they decided aloud that a prayer to the Lord of Justice might be prudent before they wandered off into the woods to relieve themselves, the thing of eyes and jaws crept unnoticed toward them.
" 'Tis your turn to begin the devotion," the shorter pilgrim mumbled.
"Do it be in truth, Jarald? Or've you just forgotten the words to the Call of the Just again?"
"I've not! I remember them well!" the shorter pilgrim said heatedly. "Will you plague me with the misdeed of one night down all the years to come?" Behind him, unseen in the flickering confusion where the firelight played on a broken end of stone wall, something that swam with many eyes and hungry mouths reared up, looming darker and larger, drifting tendrils of itself across the ceiling to hang above the two oblivious pilgrims.
"I don't rightly know," his taller companion said, with a slow grin. "How long did you plan to go on living?"
From the darkness above came a sudden swift movement. . . .
81
War? Comes Co MisCLe6ale
The fire was dying down; he'd have to make this swift. The taller pilgrim cleared his throat, lurched forward from a seated position to his knees, and began. "Hear us, O Great Balance, as we hear thee! From our knees we cry to theeeee/"
His words ended in a surprised cry as he raised his eyes to the firelit ceilingand found himself staring at an oozing, descending blob of jelly that swam with jaws and eyeballs! And all of those eyeballs were staring at him!
The horrid thing lunged at him, seven or more sets of fangs biting the air hungrily as they came. The pilgrim flung himself backward and to his feet, out of reach, and the thwarted reaching thing turned with fearsome speed and struck at the other pilgrim.
The shorter man was already on his feet, watching the monster with a surprisingly calm expression of curiosity on his face. He sidestepped the attacking tendriland found a second questing arm reaching down, almost upon him. He was trapped between them. As they reached in, he shrugged and grimaced.
An instant later, the many-fanged mouths opened wide for their first savage strikebut the pilgrims were gone. Two clouds of dark, whirling globules stood for an instant where the men had been. And then the jaws bit down. On nothing.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
The globules crashed to the floor in a red rain that spattered the stones and put the hissing fire out. Amid the sudden smoke of its dying, the floor ran with small puddles that moved together with purposeful speed.
The many-fanged monster peered suspiciously around the room and came slowly free of the ceiling to gather itself into a floating sphere of questing eyes and gnashing teeth. It echoed the dumbfounded astonishment of the distant Zhentarim who'd created it; he'd never seen anything of the like before. Was this a spell? Were the two pilgrims of Tyr doppelgangers who'd learned a new trick? Or ... something else?
The floating monster glared around the ruined chamber, but nothing moved except the thick, dark red fluid on the floor. Two holy symbols lay amid the moving gore, and tin cups and scabbarded swords and knives leaned where the pilgrims had left them, but their clothes were gone. The monster bent its gaze again on the moving liquid.
Slowly, as if with great effort, the red fluid was gathering, joining into two ever-widening pools. The creature watched for a long time; the pools became two rising, glistening red humps. Purposefully the fanged thing flew across the chamber to hang above one pool, and extended a forest of mouths with questing tongues, intending to suck up the pool.
With surprising speed, the pool leapt upward to meet it, roaring in a red column that plunged into all the waiting mouths. The fanged creature darkened, shudderedand flew apart in a wet explosion of staring eyeballs and slime.
Gelatinous fragments of its riven body were flung to the far corners of the rubble-strewn room . . . but before they could stain the walls or floor, these wet remnants faded silently away into the air, as if they had never been.
83
ED GREENWOOD
The swordcaptains standing around Nentor Thul-doum nearly swallowed their tongues in startled fear when the wizard let out a sudden raw scream, clawed blindly and convulsively at them all, and then flung himself back in his seat, clutching at his head. The wordless wet gargle in his throat rose again into a screaming, a high keening that went on and on ... and men pulled back from the reeling Zhentarim and drew their blades. They shivered.
"What should we do, Lord?" a swordcaptain asked, hurrying to where Swordlord Amglar sat watching, his back against the ancient bulk of the Standing Stone.
The commander looked up expressionlessly at the anxious officer and shrugged. "Either this passes, or it doesn't. If the latter, well put arrows through him from well away until he falls silent, and then burn the body." Amglar reached for the wineskin and goblet that sat on the grass beside him, and his lips curved into a mirthless grin. "Wizards are all like that, inside," he told the swordcaptain softly. "If their control is ever broken, all the screaming and wide-eyed raving bursts out, for us all to see."
The man shivered. "What does that to wizards, Lord?"
Amglar shrugged. "It's but magic sweeping away restraint. Mages are just men and maids like all the rest of us. The problem with our kindly Zhentarim is that they all seem to forget that."
In a ruined chamber deep in the night-cloaked woods, two columns of dark, glistening liquid grew slowly darker and more solid, shifting into manlike shapes. One sharpened into the likeness of the shorter pilgrim while the other was still a glistening humanoid, eyes and mouth just swimming into view on a face of red slime.
"That body?" the unfinished one asked disgustedly.
+ 84*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Again?"
"You'd prefer this?" The shorter pilgrim flickered and slid, its clothes and bristles melting away into ivory-skinned voluptuousness. A breathtakingly beautiful female human caressed itself provocatively, posing with its hands in a magnificent fall of flame-red hair.
"Where'd you see that?* the unfinished one asked.
The second Malaugrym smiled. "Well, it's a long story. ..."
Tower of Ashaba, Shadowdale, early Flamerule 17
"Is there more moongleam?" Elminster asked hopefully, holding out his goblet.
Chin on hand, Shaerl shook her head. "Not this side of the cellars, and I'm in no state to climb stairs now. Not aftergods, Old Mage, it's been six bottles! Doesn't wine touch you?"
"No," Elminster told her. "I just like the taste."
Shaerl rolled her eyes. "Of course. Silly of me even to think you'd get tipsy, or take headaches from wine, like mere mortals."
"Look ye, lass, it took me the better part of a year to get the spell rightand after all that, Mystra laughed and changed me with a wave of her hand! I could have saved myself hoursnay, daysof painstaking research!"
"Aye," Shaerl agreed dryly. "I can see how long and hard it would have been, drinking every night away to see how long it took you to start reeling, and if 'twas different than the night before."
"That's not how I did it, lass!" Elminster growled at her.
Shaerl spread her hands in apology and sighed. "I'd have more sympathy, El, if I didn't look in the mirror every morn and see myself getting older, fast. Not all
ED GREENWOOD
that long ago I was ordering my gowns slit thigh-high to catch the eyes of young blades at feasts, and having gowns made to match so my parents wouldn't see until the coach was around the first bend, and I could strip them off! Now I couldn't even get into any of those gowns ... if I still dared to dress like that!"
"Why don't ye dare dress like that?" the Old Mage asked, trying to peer around the edge of the table to see her ankles. "A few years and a child don't ruin one's legs!"
"But they do add to one's belly. Never mind about me ... you know what I'm talking about, Old Mage. You've had centuriesand may well have centuries more. Ill be lucky to see sixty summers."
* Tis not the shining thing ye think it, this longevity," Elminster told her gravely. "I bury friends every day, it seems... and one grows so tired of it all. If ye didn't need me so sorely in the days ahead, twould be so easy to just bid it all good-bye and lie down in a tomb somewhere to dream the ages away... but ye always need me/
"I do?" Shaerl asked challengingly, but hastily added, "No offense, Old Mage."
Elminster waved a dismissive hand. "Not ye personallythou art one of the bright spots, lass. Cormyrean noble ladies who can think for themselves are rarer than they should be! I meant the Realms in general, and Shadowdale in particular. There's something here that the gods need very badly just nowand I must guard it from them."
"Ah, with us caught in the middle, as usual," Shaerl said sarcastically. "Wonderful."
"Ye wanted adventure when ye left the castle of thy father," Elminster reminded her. "So ye took the oath to Azoun and joined Vangerdahast's service, were sent to Shadowdale and promptly married the man ye were sent to spy on ... so here ye are. Too late by far to criticize the bed ye made for thyself, dear."
"I know," Shaerl replied in exasperation. She got up, leaning on the table for support, and then strode rest-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
lessly about the room. "It's just"
She threw up her hands in surrender, whirled around, and ran to the old wizard, flinging her arms around him.
"I'm just so scared, El," she said, tears standing in her eyes as she stared into his. Her lower lip trembled. "Every time Mourn goes out that door, I think it's the last time I'll see him alive. Zhentil Keep attacks us every gods-be-damned spring . . . and now the entire world seems torn apart, with gods everywhere and ores and brigands, and magic going wild! Mourn needs me to be strong, I know, when what I want to do is run away from it all, just the two of us, and"
"The two of us? Ye and this old wizard? Miss, I'll remind ye that ye're married!" Elminster said primly.
"I meant Mourngrym, you dolt," Shaerl said scornfully, voice wavering on the edge of tears.
"I know ye did, little one," Elminster said. He folded her gently into his arms. That brought the explosion of sobs he'd known it would. He held the lady of Shadow-dale, murmuring comforting promises and stroking her hair until her tears were spent.
She lifted her head from his breast at last, red eyed and wild haired, and blinked at him tremulously, morose thanks in her eyes.
"Ah, ye're done!" Elminster said brightly. "Now, how about that wine?"
"Ooohh!" In mock rage Shaerl snatched up a cushion from the chair and belted him with it.
"That's better," the Old Mage said gruffly, through the rain of blows. "Beat the wits out of the only arch-mage left to defend Shadowdale, that's a smart girl."
Shaerl let fall the cushion as if its touch suddenly burned her fingers. "Sorry," she whispered, turning her head away.
Elminster chuckled and clapped her shoulder. "I was jesting, lass. Why don't ye settle into a slightly more cozy position on my lapone in which thy knee isn't pressing
ED GREENWOOD
hard into this old bladder, mindan' I tell ye all the wild tales about which avatar is walking where in Faerun, and what a mess they're making of things. When ye're thoroughly scared, Fll pass on to news of the main Zhent army, currently being warmly entertained in Voonlar by several hobgoblin hands I sent thence ... ah, dropped literally atop their camp, actually."
Shaerl giggled. "I wish I'd been there to see that," she said. "Has it thinned the Zhent host appreciably?"
Elminster nodded. "Moreover, I'm not done yet. It's taken me until now to locate my favorite hobgoblin tribethe Nose Bonesso they'll be er, dropping in on our Zhent friends just before dawn."
"Taken you until now?" Shaerl said in mock alarm. "Why, whatever have you been doing?"
"Holding the Realms together, lass," Elminster told her rather grimly, "and fighting off various old foes who've decided to take advantage of the Fall of the Gods to conquer or destroy as much of Faerun as they can seizethe Malaugrym, in particular, have been troublesome."
"Those Who Walk in Shadow?" Shaerl asked, eyes grave. "Storm and I have talked about them several times, after one attacked you at the inn and you wouldn't tell us anything. They sounded deadly, indeed."
"Ah, but I've acquired three heroes to deal with them now," Elminster said, holding out to her a goblet that shouldn't have been full.
Shaerl stared at it suspiciously, sipped it, and then peered into it again. It was still fullor rather, full again. She gave Elminster a look.
The Old Mage spread his hands with an air of innocence.
The lady of Shadowdale sighed. "So who are these three mighty ones?"
"Sharantyr and two Harpers; men who came to Storm for training."
Shaerl stared at him, mouth open. "The three
ALL SHADOWS FLED
rangers? Against spell-hurling shapeshifters? El, they'll be kiltedr
Elminster shrugged. "That fate could well befall us all in the days ahead. I can't be everywhere, especially now, with bindings failing and magic twisting awry all across Toril. My valiant three've done well enough thus far, I must say. Even if they all perish forthwith, they've dealt the House of Malaug a shrewd blow."
"Will you write that on their tombs?" Shaerl asked quietly.
Elminster shrugged but said nothing. After a long silence, the lady of Shadowdale whispered, "What will you write on ours?"
The ghost of a smile stole across the Old Mage's face. "Perhaps: I should have been laid to rest here long ago, but I'm still busy defending Shadowdale."
"Oh, no," she said quietly, shaking her head as the bedchamber door opened and a weary Mourngrym strode in, tossing down cloak, helm, and sword. "That's what your tomb should say."
"It already does, lass. Ask Lhaeo to show ye some timeon the morrow. It's a good place to hide with thy heir, if the dale's overrun. Oh, in case he forgets to tell yedon't mind all the floating eyeballs that'll drift around after ye. They do no harm . . . and if the food runs out, they're good eating."
"Is he teasing you about fried eyeballs again?" Mourngrym asked as he strode into the room. Without slowing to hear Shaerl's reply, he bent over the chair to kiss the top of her head, and then looked up at Elminster as the soft fingers of his wife stole up to stroke his cheek. "And what's this about 'hide'? And 'overrun'? With you here holding the dale against all invaders?"
"We must all fall sometime," Elminster replied very quietly. "That's why I've been grooming every hero I could find these last ten years or so. Someday, defending Shadowdale without me will be your task. Perhaps someday soon."
4-89*
ED GBEENWOOD
The Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 17
The spellmaster's screams broke off suddenly, and he slumped forward in his seat. Hesitantly one of the swordcaptains took a few paces toward the wizard, sword drawn, and then looked back to the swordlord for instructions. Other officers with ready weapons were also gathering cautiously around the seated wizard.
"Is he dead?" Amglar asked bluntly. The swordcap-tain turned to see, taking a few paces closerand then shrank back in horror as sudden radiances flashed and spun around the body, jerking it convulsively.
Amglar's eyes narrowed. Contingencies, perhaps . . . not attacks visited from afar, no.
His judgment was confirmed an instant later as the Zhentarim shook himself and stood, looking around irritably at all the grim faces and raised swords. "Put away all this steel," he snapped, "and find something useful to dosuch as getting me a hot meal. Spellhurl-ing's hungry work."
The swordcaptain Amglar had just given orders to turned back to the swordlord and spread his hands in a silent question. Amglar waved at him to 'hold hard' for the nonce, got up, and strode over to Thuldoum.
"How are you, mage?" he asked, putting his hand on the hilt of his sword.
"I'll live," Thuldoum said coldly, "and my wits are my own; you need not hack me down for fear I'll turn on you all."
"The Roost's defended, then?"
"No," the spellmaster said. "It's deserted. A little overgrown and tumbledown to be an ideal camp, but safe enough."
"Safe? Why the screaming then?"
"My creation encountered two beings who can shift shape. They were camped in one of the rooms."
9O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Doppelgangers? If they impersonate our swordcaptains, they can play merry death and chaos with this Sword!"
These weren't doppelgangers," Nentor Thuldoum said grimly. "One of them tried to merge with my monster, destroying it. I was held in thrall, and saw into its mind. It was old, very old, and it hates Elminster of Shadowdale more than you or I do; possibly more than High Lord Manshoon does. They've been feuding for centuries."
"And so?"
"It also hates three other humans I don't know; they looked like rangers. It thinks all of them are in Mistle-dale right now . . . and was headed there to feed on them, the moment it was satisfied the human shape I saw it ina pilgrim of Tyrwas good enough to fool them."
"You think these two shapechangers are on the way to Mistledale by now?"
"Yes," the Zhentarim said flatly. "I couldn't break free until it ate the monster's mind, but the last thought I overheard was that it was eager to get to its prey."
"Then we'll be just as urgent in our advance on the Roost, once you set us a directional spell so we can get there through the woods, and not have to use the road and the open dale."
"The moment I've eaten," the spellmaster told him coldly, "youll have that spell. The drink, I think, is even more important right now."
Wordlessly Amglar undipped a chased metal flask from his belt and held it out. The Zhentarim regarded it and then him suspiciously, then in sudden resolve undid the stopper and took a sipthen a long pull.
When he could stop gasping, the spellmaster wiped at his numbed lips and asked, "B-By all the gods, what is that stuff?"
"Firewine," Amglar told him, surprised. "You don't get out much, do you, wizard?"
ED GREENWOOD
"Enough," Thuldoum told him darkly. "More than enough."
"Spellmaster?" A swordcaptain was hurrying up with a covered platter that trailed wisps of steam. "Your evenfeast!"
"Ah, that's better," Thuldoum said, and turned to Amglar. "You see, Swordlord? Properly treated, I will deal with you properly in return . . . just like any man. You might remember that."
"Aye," the swordlord said, remembering Myarvuk's still, staring face as they buried him. "I will keep it in mindalways."
Mistledale, Flamerule 17
The larger of the two owls fluttered down to a branch on the edge of the dale, and grew a human mouth. "Best be wary," it said to the owl alighting beside it. "They may have spying spells setand a single arrow could slay us in these shapes."
"Take on something larger, Yinthrim?"
"No," the larger Malaugrym said firmly. "That'd just invite discovery and attack . . . and they'll have mages about. No, Atari, just take care. After we avenge the despoiled honor of the House of Malaug, let us return here and await the dawn. On a battlefield, amusements will be many."
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
"Yes?" Sylune inquired, turning from her lamp and mirror and raising an imperious eyebrow. On either side of the tent door, Belkram and Itharr stared out and raised their blades warily, waiting.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Your servant, Lady," said the voice outside. A man's voice. A familiar man's voice.
"Yes, Torm?" Sylune asked, a trifle wearily. The two Harpers relaxed, trading grins across the dim tent mouth. "Come to undress me? Or just to collect all your Lingerie?"
"No," the thief said in a low voice. "May I come in?"
Sylune turned to Sharantyr, who nodded. The three Harpers were sleeping in all but their boots, drawn swords to hand, and had already lain down. The Witch of Shadowdale was sitting up before a mirror, looking at the body she might well lose again on the morrow. "Yes  but leave your pranks outside the door. I'm not in the mood."
"Your command is my wish, as I believe Elminster once said," Torm said with just a hint of his usual imp-ishness, looking warily into the tent. Belkram and Itharr saluted him silently with their blades; he answered them with a sardonic lift of his brows, and stepped into the tent. He was holding something behind his back.
Sylune turned on her stool to face him. With the candlelight behind her, lighting her silver hair into flame, she looked unearthly as well as beautiful. "Well, Torm?"
"I ... ah, I came to do your hair," Torm said, bringing a fistful of combs and a tiny scent bottle into view. All four folk in the tent stared at him, and his face grew pinker. Looking down at his hands, he said, "I seem to Have grown used to it." He looked up at Sylune. "If you
The smile that the Witch of Shadowdale gave him then took his heart away. Torm swallowed as she stretched forth her hands to him. "Mind? I am honored. Please!"
As Torm stepped forward, eyes shining, Belkram said kindly, "Haul your tongue in, there's a good boy. We've done the tent floor already, and you'll look more sensible with it safely stowed away."
ED GHEENWOOU
Sharantyr shot her comrade a sharp look, but Torm did not even turn around.
"I know it's been said before," he said calmly, "but if you go around giving folk a piece of your clever mind, Bel-kram, soon enough you'll have none left for yourself."
Belkram spread his hands in apology. "Aye, it's the real Torm. Sorry for shattering your gesture, sir. With all these shapeshifters around, one can't be too careful."
Torm rounded on him then. " Too careful'?" he asked, incredulously. "You folk make berserkers look like timid moles! When you discover what the word 'careful' means, come and tell me! You certainly haven't displayed any great store of it thus far! I doubt Elmin-ster'd dare to do what you have ... let alone this thief!"
"He's right, you know," Sharantyr said with a chuckle.
"Of course he's right," Itharr told her. "We've just been charging ahead as fast as we could into peril after peril, hoping the gods, our foes, and ourselves alike wouldn't notice what reckless fools we're being, and pay us off for it! And now he's gone and spoiled it, and on the eve of battle, too! Bad thief! Naughty, naughty bad thief!"
The tent erupted in helpless laughter. In the night outside, two Rider sentries exchanged wondering glances, and shook their heads.
"Harpers and adventurers . . . crazed wits, if you ask me," one said feelingly.
"No argument here," his fellow replied, watching the darkness around warily. Something glided pastand he tensed to shout and hurl his spearuntil he saw that it was only an owl. Another owl flapped along in its wake. Now that was something rarely seen.
The guard frowned at the two birds as the night swallowed them again. He shrugged. As long as they weren't arrows, dragons, or flying wizards, things in the sky were no concern of his. He yawned and peered all around again, seeking real danger.
+ 94-*
ALL SHADOWS Fi.0
Galath's Roost, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
"The wizard said it was deserted, and safe," the Zhentilar swordcaptain grunted, "but we know all about wizards, don't we, lads? Swords out, watch wary, and be ready for the worst!" He glared around at the Zhentilar soldiers and told them, "I don't want to lose one of you because someone wasn't looking, or was thinking about his mistress back at the Keep, or how many coins this or that jack owed him. So take yer time, and let's do this the right way. Torches and mage lights to the fore."
There was a creaking and rattling, and the men moved as one. Then the only sound was the soft whisper and rustle of disturbed foliage. The first scouts of the Sword of the South advanced up the steep, thickly forested slope toward the ruin of Galath's Roost.
When the foremost man was an easy ten paces from the overgrown stones of a wall, he turned and shrieked like an owl, thrice. In response, the mage lights drifted silently forward, over the helmed heads of the soldiers, into the dark and hollow places of stone ahead.
Nothing moved. There was no sound that could not be put down to small things that flap or scuttle in a forest by night. Cautiously the Zhentilar moved forward, swords out, probing the ferns and brambles ahead for spring bows, trip cords, and pits. They found nothing.
From here and there along the edges of the ruin, double owl hoots rang out as scout after scout signalled his safe entry into the keep. Files of men bearing torches began to work their way through the trees in answer to the calls.
A scout halted in a dark chamber, hearing the stony scrape of something moving to his right, through an archway thick with vines and mottled moss. "Be that you, Baeremuth?" The whisper was cautious, and the
ED GREENWOOD
reply was quick and low.
"Aye. Fflarast?"
"Me," Fflarast confirmed, turning his loaded hand crossbow aside to prevent any accidents. "Anything of interest?"
"Lots of rubble, and something's nest . . . vole bones an' the like. I think this place really is deserted."
"Good. Crazed orders, hacking through the woods in the dark just to camp in a ruin, but . . ."
"Better'n trying to fight our way into Mistledale down that bow-shot throat, if we'd taken the road. They must have at least a dozen archers  an' a dozen's all they'd need, Fflar, to take down four hundred or more of us, for sure. This way, we can strike out of the woods all along the south side of the dale. Those farmers'll run themselves crazed trying to be everywhere at once to stop us."
"You plot like a swordlord," Fflarast muttered. "We'd better get on, or Dellyn'll be running his blade up our backsides and bellowing at us for being a pair of craven laggards or spies for the enemy."
"Huh. He sees spies under every stone, that one," Baeremuth replied, and suited actions to words by turning over a rock that was suspiciously damp among dry, dusty ones.
There was a sudden rush of rubble and a crash that shook the room. Fflarast cursed and staggered back, trying to keep his feet, but ended up sitting down hard on rubble. When he'd scrambled up and could see again through the rising dust, his mouth went suddenly dry.
Baeremuth Asanter lay under a fallen block of stone nearly as large as a pack mule. Thin rivers of blood were running out from beneath it  and Fflar could just see the tips of the fingers of one hand, reaching vainly for aid. It would reach forever now.
Death GROOJS Impatient
Fflarast Blackriver peered again at his comrade's remains and then backed away very carefully. The rock-fall hadn't been accidental.
Someone had gone to a lot of trouble with wooden wedges and spars and balanced stonesand even flung dust around afterward to hide their work. The wedges were the bright hue of newly cut wood; this had been done within the last day or so.
"Oh, Bane preserve us," Fflarast whispered, backing out of the chamber. At that moment, a heavy booming off to the right marked the discovery of another trap. It was followed by a faint, raw screaming that went on for a long time before ending suddenly in a gurgle. Fflarast knew those sounds. Someone had put a half-crushed man out of his agony with a quick sword thrust to the throat.
"Ye gods and small creeping things hear my plea," the Zhentilar warrior whispered, invoking the old, old prayer of desperate warriors. He wasn't facing half a hundred ores alone on a crag, like the legendary Bor-thin had been when he roared out the invocation, but dead is dead, and Fflarast Blackriver had only one life to lose. Moreover, he valued it just as much as Borthin had his own.
There came another rushing of stone off to the left,
ED GREENWOOD
and startled cursing. Ahone trap had missed. Good; that meant they were probably all clever feats, and not magic. Maybe-just maybeFflar would see the end of this day.
There came a ringing of steel from behind him. "What's ahead, scout?" a self-important swordcaptain snapped. Pelaeron himself, scourge of lazy soldiers. Oh, joy.
"Traps, sir," Fflarast said, indicating the fallen block and Baeremuth's arm. "I'm deciding how best to safely proceed."
"Well, hurry up about it," the officer snapped, prodding Fflar's mail-covered backside with his sword tip. "We haven't got all night, you know." A file of warriors was crowding into the room behind the swordcaptain. Fflarast looked at themand at Pelaeron's steely eye and then swallowed, shrugged, and carefully climbed over the rubble to the left of Baeremuth, on into the darkness.
Darkness where there should have been light. The torch had been with Baeremuth, and no mage lights were near. "Torch," Fflarast rapped out, keeping his voice as laconic as possible, and reached back.
The swordcaptain curtly waved an armsman with a blazing torch forward. The man reached to hand the torch to Fflarast, shuffled amid loose stones, tripped, and measured his length on the rubble. Stones shiftedand Fflar flung himself backward into unknown darkness as hard and fast as he could.
An instant later, armsman, torch, Pelaeron, and all vanished in a roaring and tumbling of stone as two carefully balanced blocks collapsed sideways, and the floor of the chamber above came down.
Fflarast landed hard on his tailbone on rough-edged rocks and lay there groaning. The chamber he'd come through was now a new-sealed tomb in front of him. He was lying in a cross passageand listening to fresh crashings off to the left as heavy stones dropped and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
rolled. Tortured metal shrieked briefly as it crumpled, a man screamed for an instant, and then there were only echoes. Echoes that faded slowly into silence.
Fflar shuddered. He snarled wordlessly. Gods take all wizards! Save my bruised behind! Grunting, he rolled slowly and carefully to the left, to his knees, and felt for his sword.
There was another rolling crash in the distance, and shouts. Fflarast found his sword and clutched it, not moving as he fought down fear. He was alone in chill darkness with death waiting all around him. For the greater glory of Zhentil Keep, whose proud lords would not even know that Fflarast Blackriver had died in the service. Or care one whit, if someone told them.
"Hungry beasts take them all," Fflar told the darkness softly, and stayed on his knees, wondering how long it would be until dawn . . . and if he'd dare try to find his way out of the ruin even then.
Far down the passage, many torches glimmered and danced, and a voice said, "Therethat's armor!"
"I serve Zhentil Keep!" Fflar shouted desperately, flinging up his arms in case someone was very eager to fire his crossbow. No quarrels answered. The voice came again. "Who are you, soldier?"
"Fflarast Blackriver, of Pelaeron's Mace." He cleared his throat and added, "I'm alone. Pelaeron and most of his swords lie under stone beside me. We've struck two traps already."
"It seems a contagious habit," the voice responded dryly. "Stay where you are. I'm going to throw you a torch."
A moment later, fire whup-whup-whupped end over end through the darkness, trailing sparks, and fell amid rubble, showing Fflar a row of archways on one side of the passage, and doors or fallen walls on the side he'd come in by. A bootstill twitching feeblycould be seen in the fall of rubble beside him. Fflarast swallowed and turned his back on it, looking through the nearest
ED GREENWOOD
arch.
"What can you see, soldier?" the voice asked.
"A huge chamberprobably a great hall," Fflarast answered. "It has balconies around its inside walls, and the roof's gone somewhere. There's moonlight at one end."
"Off to your leftmy right?"
"Aye," Fflarast called. "It looks openbig empty stretches."
Voices murmured down the corridor. The officer called, "Can you get to the torch?"
Fflarast struggled over rubble for a few sweating moments, half-expecting the ceiling to fall on him, but reached the guttering torch safely. "I have it," he called, and swung it nigh.
"Good. We're going to throw you another. Pitch it out into this large hall of yours and tell us what you see."
Fflarast did so. The chamber rivalled the main hall of the Black Altar back in Zhentil Keep. He'd stood honor guard in that dark temple more than once, and knew this hall was fully as large. He told them so.
"Can you say anything of interest?"
"No . . . broken tiles . . . heaved and stained flooring, but open. The torchlight doesn't show it all. Nothing moving or alive that I can see."
"Good man. Stay where you are. We're coming to join you."
Fflarast sighed heavily and stood as still as he could, watching the slow and cautious advance of a long file of black-armored men.
It seemed half the Sword of the South was in the passage. Someone had cut a long, bent sapling and lashed a torch to it, and was lighting the high ceiling as they came, finding holes and old rockfalls. There were also two shafts that presumably let light and air down into the keep, but as the soldiers of Zhentil Keep cautiously passed beneath them, nothing swooped down or fell from above. Soon the Zhentilar reached Fflarast, and a
ALL SHADOWS FLED
swordcaptainanother officious onecurtly ordered him to stand aside.
A torch was tossed on down the passage. Its flickering light revealed that the corridor was blocked completely not far beyond where Fflarast had entered it. An entire room seemed to have fallen from the floor above, pouring a high mound of broken stone across the passage from wall to wall, and almost to the ceiling. Fflar looked at it and shuddered.
"This great hall it is, then," the swordcaptain ordered, turning away. The man at his elbowthe swordcaptain who'd thrown the torch to Fflarastpeered into the vast chamber and murmured, "I have a bad feeling about this room."
"I think we all do!" the other officer snarled, fear lacing his blustering voice. "So let's just get on with it! Menout swords and advance, the first dozen of you! Stop and report if you see anything of importespecially moving bones! I want to get that mage in here fast.. . and then maybe we'll all get some sleep!"
Men moved reluctantly into the chamber. Fflarast stood silent, glad he wasn't among them, expecting to hear another heavy crash at any moment.
Minutes passed, and the men standing still and tense in the passage could hear each other breathing, hoarse and fast. But no cries or falls of stone came, and soon a man whose armor bore the red shoulder emblem of a sword came back to the archway and reported crisply, "No danger, sir. Molds and rubbish down one end, where a lot of water's come in, but there's nothing else in the place except two stairs up to the floor above and a high seatof bare stone, nothing in iton a raised bit at the far end. The place is huge; there's room for a good two thousand blades to bunk down, though I'd not want to be close in under some of the balconies; they look none too safe."
"Well done, sword. Set men to guard all doors and archways into the place; we'll move in. Swordcaptain
1O1
ED GREENWOOD
Aezel, go out and tell the swordlord. Request that the spellmaster be brought in, forthwithand if the wizard objects, request it again."
There were a few dry chuckles in the safe anonymity of the gloom, and then men were on the move. Fflarast Blackriver came to a sudden decision. He handed his torch to a passing armsman and took up the straight, back-to-the-wall stance of a man on guard duty. He wasn't going into that great hall unless directly ordered to.
Thankfully, the officious swordcaptain passed on into the great hall, and the bulk of the soldiery followed, leaving a few wary veterans standing in the passage with Fflarast. "Neatly done, lad," one of them hissed, and grinned. Fflarast gave him a grin back, and they waited in the darkness together until a bright blaze of torches and the shuffling of many booted feet told them the main body of the Sword had arrived.
Men in black armor seemed to file past forever, until at last the black battle robes of the spellmaster could be seen sweeping majestically down the passage. He was escorted by two swordcaptains and the swordlord himself. "
The supreme commander of the Sword of the South halted close enough to Fflarast to touch him, and said to the wizard, "The men want you to look around and set them at their ease that there's no magic or hidden, lurking things about. Do that, but we haven't time for you to send them haring down every passage in the place in hopes of finding magic treasure that was likely taken away long ago. I'll be outside, supervising the perimeter watch; send Swordcaptain Tschender here out to me if you want anything."
The spellmaster nodded impatiently, seeming eager to get into the room, and the swordlord stepped back, rolled his eyes behind the wizard's back, and strode off back down the corridor, leaving behind at least six veterans struggling not to chuckle as the Zhentarim stepped grandly through the nearest arch.
By unspoken, common accord the men in the passage
ALL SHADOWS
all moved to stand where they could look through archways, and watch what befell in the great hall. Wizards of the Black Network were not lovedbut they were always a source of entertainment, if one could keep safely out of the way.
Spellmaster Thuldoum strode grandly across the vast chamber, head high, looking slowly from left to right and back again. When he caught sight of the throne, he bent forward in eagerness, and his pace quickened.
"Gods spit down on 'im," one of the soldiers muttered. "He's going to sit on the throne!"
For a moment it appeared that the wizard was going to do just thatbut prudence came to him at the last moment, and they saw him ordering a reluctant armsman into the seat instead.
Gingerly the soldier sat downand from the ceiling above, a ring of boulders on chains crashed down, smashing the vainly leaping man to bloody ruin on the stones. One stone, rebounding from the impact on its chain, nearly beheaded the startled wizard, who staggered backward, arms flailing, as armsmen watched in horror. The soldier who'd been a shade too slow in vacating the throne lay where he had fallen, a broken figure in a pool of blood.
"What did I tell ye?" a soldier said, who hadn't in fact spoken before, all that long night. "Stupid buttocks-brain."
It seemed the wizard wasn't done. He'd caught sight of something behind or beyond the throne that only he could see, and was casting a spell. With all eyes upon him, he made a show of it, gesturing dramatically as he brought the invocation to a ringing climaxand a door slowly appeared in the blank wall behind the high seat. Magical radiance shone blue and silver, brightening to a soft white glow, and spread slowly along an arched frame to outline a large door.
As Zhentilar stared at it and Spellmaster Thuldoum
103
ED GREENWOOD
grinned in triumph, Fflarast felt the tense prickling of hairs rising on the back of his neck. Oh, no ...
The Zhentarim brought his hands down with a flourish, pointing at the door, and shouted the last word of the spell that would open it.
The door winked out. Blue-white flashes ran all over the ceiling of the chamber as a web of magic discharged, and Galath's Roost fell in on itself with a roar.
Fflarast saw the ceiling begin to fall and the wizard stare up and then vanish. He did not wait to see a thousand of his fellow warriors crushed, but turned and flung himself headlong down the passage, running as he had never run before.
There was an earth-splitting crash of stone upon stone, and Fflar was flung off his feet. He landed rolling amid dust and falling stones as the castle shook around him. The entire armor gallery had fallen into the great hall.
"Gods!" one of the old soldiers in the passage gasped. The floor, too!" And with a slow, gathering thunder, the overloaded floor gave way, dropping in huge pieces down into dark cellars beneath.
By then, Fflar was sprinting toward the moonlight, sweat almost blinding him. A last leap over rubble and he was out, tumbling in the ferns and coming up running, to get well away from the walls.
"Easy, soldier," said a swordcaptain, putting out a hand to stop Fflarast's frantic flight. "What befell?"
Fflar clung to the man, panting, unable to catch his breathand from the ruined keep behind him came a slow series of smaller crashes.
They listened together, and then the officer shook Fflar by the shoulders. "Well?"
An old soldier came into view out of the same rent in the wall Fflar had used. It was one of the veterans who'd stayed in the passage. He was walking slowly and stiffly, ignoring the occasional falls of small stones from above, and the officer strode toward him with a
+ 1O4-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
snarl, dragging Fflar along.
"What befell?" he snapped, eyeing the old man's gray whiskers.
The old warrior looked up at him and said, "Don't bluster, lad . . . ye're an officer, remember?"
The swordcaptain roared out his anger and snatched at his swordand Fflar hit him in the side of his neck with one mailed fist, as hard as he'd ever hit anyone in his life. He got in two more good blows before the body reached the groundand stayed there.
"Easy,*lad . . . ye've broken his neck, there's no need to dance on his bones," the veteran muttered, bending over Fflar. "Now ye'd best get away from him and practice looking innocent, afore the next officer happens along."
"Too late," a deep, grave voice said above them both. Fflar and the veteran looked up into the cold, tired eyes of Swordlord Amglar. "But by the sounds of things, I've just lost too many blades to waste two more because cruel, spoiled nobles' sons make bad officers. Consider thisaccidentforgotten, and so long as you have no more, scout, I'll continue to forget it. Now tell me in truth what's befallen in there,"
Fflarast and the veteran looked at each other, and then Fflar spoke. "The spellmaster cast a spell to open a door behind the throne, andI thinkset off some sort of magical trap. The whole ceiling came down at once . . . but I think I saw him vanish before the stones hit. I ran, then . . . that's all I saw. Before that, though, my unitPelaeron's Maceand a lot of others I heard die, but didn't see, were crushed in rockfall traps . . . the keep's bulging with them."
The swordlord nodded soberly. "The spellmaster's magic brought him safely out to us here," he said, his lips twisting bitterly, "and dearly though I'd love to put him to death for this blunder, we need him in the battle tomorrow." He leaned in close to them, and his next words came in a whisper.
ED GREENWOOD
"Don't raise a hand to him this night, whatever the provocation . . . but if either of you survives the coming battle, and he's still breathing at the end of it, I want either or both of you to slay him. He may have contingencies, mindtry to dismember the body and then burn it." He looked from Fflar to the veteran, and then back to Fflar. "Understood?"
"I understand and will obey," the old soldier whispered, and Fflar echoed his words. The swordlord nodded. "Good." He looked at the veteran. "So the ceiling fell. . . what did you see after that?"
"The floor an' all went down intocellars, I'd guess below, breaking off and sliding slowly; in bits, ye know. Then the balconies broke off and fell in on top of it all, one by one. I saw spell flashes before each fall . . . the whole thing's one huge trap, sir, if ye ask me. I'd sooner sleep in the hot heart of an enemy campfire tonight than go back in there, sir." He jerked his head to indicate the ruined castle behind him.
The swordlord nodded grimly. "We've been duped by a clever foeand an arrogant, careless wizard." He sighed and added, "Gods curse all wizards. If things in Faerun were all decided by the strength of a sword arm and not sneaking spells, we'd all be a lot better off!"
Rising with another sigh, their commander pointed toward a campfire. "Go and report to Shieldmaster Tesker; you're part of my own mace now, both of you." He turned away, and as they stammered their thanks, he turned back and added, "Oh, and tell him from me that you're both swords now. If we've any armor so blazoned that fits, you're to wear it tomorrow."
"May the gods thank you more than we can, sir!" the old veteran gasped.
Amglar smiled thinly. Tou'll probably be cursing me on the morrow. Save your delight for when all of this is over, and we're standing proudly on the battlements of Zhentil Keep again. Then I'll thank the gods too . . . just how fervently I do it then, mind you, will depend on
+ 1CX5-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
what they've done to us since."
All three of them laughed together, the grim laughter of fighting men who shared the same periland the same jaundiced view of the world that had put them there. Then they clasped forearms and parted.
On his way to the fires, Fflar stopped for a moment as he realized something the other two had already knownmost soldiers keep warm with the memories of such moments.
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
Sylune of Shadowdale lay awake in the darkness, as she did every night. When one no longer needs to sleep and one's friends are in danger, there is no better way to guard them than to lie among them, feigning slumber, with a watch spell set.
Through its invisible web she felt Itharr stir, plagued by dark thoughts, building his killing rage for the battle tomorrow. Later, Sylun6 sent soothing visions to Belkram when a dream made him start in terror and almost awaken. Sharantyr needed no such kindnesses; she lay in peace, her dreams deep.
They were fine battle companions and good friends, Sylun6 smiled up at the dark roof of the tent overhead. She closed her eyes again and turned her thoughts to the many folk and places and things she must check on and watch over during this Time of Troubles, if the Realms she loved were to survive, and not some shattered, twisted remnant of Toril. At least the hours when others slept gave her time enough for reflection, to consider and anticipate all the consequences and probable unintended effects of her every action. It could truly be said of the Chosen that, more than any other thinking creatures of Faerun, they knew exactly what they were doing at all times.
+ 1O7*
ED GREENWOOD
Right now, Sylune was thinking over the battle tomorrow . . . the battle that would probably cost her this body. Jhessail and Rathan both carried fragments of stone from her hut should anything befall the one within her now, andsomething was amiss!
A scrying spell swept over the tent, seeing who lay within. Its primary dweomer paused above each sleeping face as Sylune pretended to slumber, but it did not seem to sense the spell web, and withdrew without any disturbance. Yet, that is. Now someone, probably a Zhentarim mage, knew who was in this tent. While most folk still believed that the Witch of Shadowdale was long dead, only a Malaugrym had any reason to view these four sleepers as greater foes than the mightier Knights of Myth Drannor sleeping in other tents.
Sylune let out her breath in a long gasp and rose from her physical body as a ghostly, shadowy image, questing out into the camp around for any signs of fell magic. She could feel the frozen fire of magic items lying immobile in the tent Jhessail and Merith shared with Illistyl and a lady Rider, and a few faint dweomers from enspelled glow daggers riding on the hips of watchful sentries around the edge of the camp . . . but as long moments passed, no hostile spells came out of the night. Far away to the northeast, near ruined Myth Drannor, a wolf howled, but nothing nearby answered.
Yet a single fireball could do a lot of damage to a force this small. Perhaps she should raise a spell shield. Sylune glanced out of the tent into the still moonlight. To do so over the entire camp would be a punishing drain on the little life essence she had left; she really needed a living being to power such a magicand to do it for long would leave the creature weak and quivering. Not a sword arm could be spared from the battle, though, so ...
Something was disturbing the spell web! Sylune whirled back to face into the tent in time to see two dark, serpentine bodies rise up through the floor, mak-
1O8
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ing the softest of tearing sounds. Their heads, which had parted the canvas so swiftly, were deadly steel blades atop undulating, scaled coils, but they rose up in the darkness, growing swiftly larger.
Malaugrym!
The Witch of Shadowdale sent a shrieking warning through the spell web to awaken her companions as she hurled her ghostly form back across the tent. She had to reach her body! Very few of her spells were available to her in this ghostly form, when she could hold nothing solid.
One serpent-blade was arching over her own body, and the other was rearing above Sharantyr, whence it could plunge itself down into her sleeping breast, Sylune cast a curving shield of force over the lady ranger as she swept past.
Just in time! The blade came down at Sharantyr's face and was struck aside by the invisible barrier, trailing a line of white sparks.
The other serpent-thing struck at Sylune"'s body before she could slip into it, throwing its coils around her throat and wrists. The rest of its body extended toward Belkram, blade rearing back to strike.
She'd warned all three rangers to keep silence and find their blades as they awakened, and as the serpent-thing stretched over toward him, Belkram came boiling up out of his furs, hacking at the thing savagely.
Its hammer strike burst through his frantic parry and almost pinned to him to the tent floor, laying open his shoulder as he twisted desperately aside. He roared in pain. Sharantyr tried to scramble to his aid, and found herself a prisoner under the shield, but Itharr came leaping across the tent with his blade gleaming, bellowing, "Aid! An attack! Knights of Myth Drannor, to us!"
Sylune slid into her body, heedless of the strangling coil about her throat. She did not need to breathe, and so could take no harm from the crushing constriction of
ED GREENWOOD
the Malaugrymwhose constraint prevented her from hurling spells. She gathered her will as ironlike coils tightened about her, and hauled her shield of force away from Sharantyr. She angled it up to wall herself away from the rest of the tent and shoved the Malaugrym's blade away from Belkram in the process.
The shapeshifter simply extended its body farther to strike at the Harper once more, but Itharr slashed it asideand with her companions safe behind the shield, Sylune unleashed a spell that made steel shards burst from her body.
The Malaugrym took them all, convulsing in agony and flailing about the tent, sweeping her body off its bed and hurling Itharr to sprawl atop Sharantyr and the other serpentine Shadowmaster. Belkram sprang upon it and drove his blade home, but it writhed under him, not mortally harmed by his steel, and tried to shake him off. He sat on it, stabbing it repeatedly, so it grew fangs and bit his thigh.
Sharantyr and Itharr rolled around among the furs with the other Malaugrym, hacking and stabbing at it in a frenzyand then the tent flap burst open and the Knights of Myth Drannor charged in.
Florin had doffed his armor for the night and wore only breeches, but his stout sword was in his hand. He dived without pause onto the serpent-thing on the beds, hacking at its blade-head with a flurry of blows, trying to sever the serpent's dark steel. Torm took one look at Sylune, who struggled upright with coils thick around her throat, and howled in fury, leaping across the tent with his dagger flashing.
Sylune kicked out one foot, trying to touch him, and Rathan saw what she was doing. He pushed past the thief and grasped Sylune's ankle firmly. What she said to him mind-to-mind he shouted aloud: "Malaugrym! Use silver on them to slay! They're shapeshifters! Use silver!"
At the door of the tent, Jhessail and Illistyl both nod-
110
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ded grimly. As Merith dived past them and buried his silver-bladed dagger in the Malaugrym that was battering Belkram all around the tent, they ran to where Itharr and Sharantyr were stabbing the other, and murmured spells as they slapped their hands at the blades, heedless of sharp, flashing edges.
The weapons glowed blue-white as Jhessail snatched her hand back, shaking drops of blood from it- When the glow faded, they shone silver . . . and the wounds they made did not close. Sharantyr and Itharr set to work chopping with frenzied speed, gasping their thanks.
Florin severed the blade-head of the other Malaugrym with a last blow and grabbed at the gory serpent-form, trying to hurl it away from a groaning Belkram. It grew many fanged mouths as he pounced on it, and one of them shot forth on a long stalk to snap at Torm, who ducked his head aside. Rathan raised his hand to cast a spelland the jaws expanded with lightning speed to envelop it, biting down with cruel force.
The fat cleric doggedly intoned his spell, sweat running down his faceand fire from his hand burst forth within the Malaugrym, causing it to recoil with a roar of mingled fury and pain.
Illistyl's eyes narrowed as flames gouted from the beast. She dug a hand into her purse, snatched a silver coin, and snapped out a cantrip that crumbled the metal to powder in her hands. Flinging the powdered silver into the flames, she leapt back.
The explosion that followed was spectacular. The coils around Sylune1 spasmed, flinging her freeand then smashed into her body with the force of a charging war horse, hurling her like a rag doll against the side of the tent. She struck, tumbled, and came to rest atop Torm, who madly stabbed the Malaugrym and sobbed with rage.
"It's dead, Torm," Sylune told him gently, putting a hand on his shoulder as she looked over him at the gory
111
En GREENWOOD
lumps that had been the other Malaugrym. "And so's the other one."
"Gods," the thief hissed, eyes blazing, "they could have killed you!"
"Yes," Sylune agreed, "but they did not, thanks in part to you." She put up her hand to wipe the sweat from his brow, then leaned forward and kissed him. He stared at her for a moment, and threw his arms around her, weeping uncontrollably.
"It's been rather a long time since any man got this angry for my sake," she murmured into his shoulder, "but try not to get yourself killed defending me, Torm!"
"Why not?" the thief said when he found enough control to speak. "Have you seen what they did to your hair?"
112
8
The Ring of Skulls
Swords Creek, Mistledale, Flamerule 17
Sharantyr shades her eyes again and is sure of it. Another flash, there . . . and another. And then Zhents are pouring out of the woods in a hundred places, the bright morning sun glinting on ebon armor.
There is a stir along the banks of Swords Creek, and the short bark of Kuthe's order off to the right. The Riders of Mistledale move amid a growing thunder of hooves, hurrying along the southern edge of the dale to meet the invaders. Lance tips glitter as they sweep down.
Restless, the lady ranger hefts her own gleaming blade, licks her lips, and watches Kuthe's lance lowered with menacing force. He flicks it expertly, taking out the throat of a Zhentilar as he passes, and with bright blood still trailing from the tip, buries it deep in the face of the first Zhent horseman to appear out of the woods.
The man crumples as he's flung back out of his saddle. A score of crashes follow up and down the edge of the trees as Zhent maces and spears find shields or the Riders behind them and a horn sounds from just behind Shar, calling the retreat.
Horses wheel and rear. Zhentilar soldiers race in to
ED GREENWOOD
gut the retreating warriors as they turn away. One Rider tarries too long, and Shar sees him go down, hacking frantically with his blade at a dozen foes as they drag him to ground and stab him. The riderless mount in fear lashes out with its hooves, leaps wildly into the air, shedding broken Zhent armsmen like rag dolls, and lands running west down the dale to where Kuthe is rallying the Riders.
Arrows hiss past Shar's shoulder as the farmers of Mistledale, faces set in fear and determination, strike their own first blows against the foe. Only a few black-armored figures fall, and now they're streaming out of the trees by the hundreds, a glittering black carpet of death that advances west with casual confidence. More than one of the watchers along Swords Creek gasps or retches in fear; there are thousands of Zhents!
"Gods," a man nearby mutters in despair and disbelief, "have they been breeding armsmen like rabbits? Look at them!"
Certain death was coming for them, and they all knew it. Shar traded tight grins with Belkram and Itharr as they heard Term's voice lifted in jaunty song:
"Come, oh, come play with me! Bring, oh, bring your sword, and We'll be threer
The Riders had succeeded in keeping the foe east of the creek. Secure in their numbers, none of the Zhen-tilar had moved to outflank the paltry line of waiting warriors . . . yet. Nor were they bothering with any sort of tight formation, merely gathering in mobs around a dozen steadily advancing standards.
Shar's lip curled in derision, and then she shrugged. Outnumbering us hundreds to one, what do they need
+.114-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
of discipline or battlecraft?
The Sword of the South came on without pause or parley. Shar looked again at the Riders, wondering if they'd mount another charge to disrupt the steady Zhent advance. Kuthe's helm turned; the white-horse blazon caught the sun as he looked back at her. And then his helm jerked sharply back east again.
There was a murmur from the defenders of Mistledale as they all saw what Kuthe had espied the casting of, from his high saddle: eight tiny balls of fire spun up into view and roared across Swords Creek, howling through the air and growing in size and fury as they came.
The line of defenders raised their shields and shifted uneasily as the roaring conflagration spun nearerbut then the spinning flames and sparks rippled, pulsed .. . and were gone. Swarms of birds and smoke spread harmlessly across the sky. The unseen wild magic shields in front of the defenders had worked.
A shout of satisfaction arose from the defendersbut it was answered by a ragged cry of excitement, rising from the Zhent ranks. A trumpet blared, and the Sword of the South charged forward. They lowered their spears and trotted into the creek, a sea of soldiers flanked by two bands of mounted armsmen. The horsemen to the north splashed slowly down through the creek, avoiding the roadno doubt fearing traps. Their comrades to the south spurred across the creek in a spray of waters, and gathered speed as they hurtled up the west bank toward the Riders.
Shar looked from one forest of black helms to the other . . . and back again. Was it going to be all over in the first few breaths? There aren't enough of us to stand for more than one charge . . . and that only with luck.
The screams began. The Zhent horsemen to the right were raising frantic shields or toppling from their saddles as a storm of blades twinkled and flashed around
ED GREENWOOD
them at faces and throats.
"First blow to Chauntea," Itharr murmured, watching them plunge on into oblivion. None of the Zhentilar horsemen reached the leveled lances of the waiting Riders, and few managed to pull out of that storm of steel to flee.
Lighting cracked and flashed low over the Zhent ranks, stabbing at the defenders of Mistledale . . . but became a stream of red rose petals, and drifted away on the quickening breeze. There were chuckles up and down the line of defenders. The sweat of quickening fear was making Shar's blade sticky; she shifted her grip on it and snatched a last glance to the north before the first Zhents reached her.
The northern Zhent cavalry had crossed the creek and were lowering their lances to meet a single line of Riders that had come out of nowhere to bar their path. With an exultant roar they swept down through the phantom forms of the waiting Riders . . . and plunged into the spike-lined disemboweling pits. At about the same time, the arrows of the best archers of Mistledale found them.
A spear cast out of the Zhent lines clipped the edge of Sharantyr's shield, and she found herself in the midst of what all battles become: a crowded, confused whirlwind of hard-plied steel crashing down on shields and armor, skirling off opposing bladesand sinking into screaming men.
A Zhentilar armsman swung a huge morningstar at her. Shar threw herself to her knees. As the weapon rattled past overhead, she struck upward with her shield, hurling her foe off-balance. She swept her sword up into the throat of the next charging armsman, who staggered on, dead already, and ran his blade into the armpit of the man with the morningstar. They crashed down together, and Shar shook their blood out of her eyes and took a hasty step aside to put her blade into the neck of a tall armsman who'd engaged Belkram,
ALL SHADOWS FLED
and was straining to overwhelm the snarling Harper. The man reeled and went down, spraying her with more blood. Belkram gave her a fierce grin of thanks as they faced the next Zhents shoulder to shoulder.
Arrows were still hissing past; there were so many Zhents that the dale farmers could fire over the heads of those in the fray and yet find targets in plenty. A horn rang out, calling the defenders of the dale to retreat to the second line of standards.
In answer to its call, Shar smashed her way free of a tightening knot of Zhentilar and backed hastily from the creek. One of the orange standards that marked a gap in the wild magic shields fluttered off to her left, and she saw Jhessail and Illistyl crouching by it, behind Merith's raised sword and shield. Their hands wove in spellcasting gestures.
Shar slashed an overly enthusiastic Zhent across the face, and as he went down, watched the spell of her fellow Knights take effect.
Upended helms full of metal shards and salvaged arrowheads were rising from the ground with slow, menacing forceone, three . . . six in all. Zhents were backing uncertainly away from them, but one man hacked at a helm with his blade.
He was the first to fall, ripped apart as the magic erupted, transforming the helms and their contents into pinwheel sprays of arrows that tore into the Zhent host on all sides.
Zhentilar blackhelms screamed in chorus and fell in great swathes, as if harvested by a gigantic, invisible scythe. Shar felt her gorge rise. She turned away from the sight and hastened back to the rallying standards, Belkram and Itharr at her side. There were still thousands of Zhents left; the Sword of the South was surging on across the creek, heedless of the cost. As the defenders gathered at the standards another horn call rang out from their midst.
This one was meant for the hidden Harpers. Trip
+ 117-*
ED GREENWOOD
wires hidden among the trampled grass were tightened now, and. ..
As it happened, Shar watched the first shield rise, spilling a startled Zhent forwardand revealing a Harper with a loaded crossbow. He discharged his quarrel into the face of the nearest Zhent officer, dropped the bow, and snatched up his spear to ward away a charging annsman. That gave the other two Harpers in the hole time to scramble out, gain their feet, and begin their race through the Zhent rear, hacking and slashing at the full run.
Men and women in leather boiled up out of the ground in two dozen places or more, and there was much shouting and chaos. Shar had a brief glimpse of a furious-looking man in robesa Zhent wizard, she realizedstumbling hastily away from a seeking blade. Then she was much too busy to look at anything but the foes all around, their blades falling on her own with the force of hammers.
The Sword of the South rolled into the defenders again, a wall of grim men wielding blades and maces. They pushed the outnumbered dalefolk slowly back to higher ground. Another horn cried out from just behind her, and Shar flung herself flat.
An instant later, arrows hissed over her in a deadly stream, and the front rank of Zhents melted away, hurled to the ground like torn thorn bushes. A brief blip of the horn indicated it was safe to rise.
Sharantyr found her feet and stared across blood-soaked ground at the Zhents . . . over the frightened faces of the Zhentilar rearguard, back across the creek. There, Harper swords flashed, message runners fell, and Zhent officers shouted and flailed in disarray. A rolling ball of flame told her at least one Harper spell had workeda lone Harper paused, tossed sweat-soaked hair out of his eyes, and lashed half a dozen pursuers with a bright net of fire.
The Harpers were pitifully few. Most of those fighting
Aix SHADOWS FLED
south to a rallying point were going down, attacked from all sides by enraged and fearful Zhents. Shar saw one armsman catch his foot on the edge of an open Harper hole and fall helplessly away from the ranger he was attacking. The man leapt across the hole, breaking free of a ring of Zhents, and raced toward a banner that had been set alight as a rallying point.
Not far behind Shar, Margrueth muttered an incantation. A flying Zhent spear headed past her, and she dived sideways to smash it down with her shield, for fear it would reach the sorceress.
It skidded into the dirt, and an instant later came Margrueth's short bark of satisfaction. A wall of twinkling swords blinked into solidity in the air around the surviving Harpers, chopping down pursuing Zhents. Men jerked and fell in that deadly whirlwind.
A black-robed Zhentarim wizard strode toward the wall of swords, careful to keep in the lee of a trio of large shields held high by armsmen. He raised his hands and gestured grandlybut was answered by fearful shouts as his magic went wild. Instead of fading away, the blades flew in all directions, butchering Harpers and Zhents alike.
A strident horn call began another Zhent cavalry charge, striking at the Riders again along the southern edge of the dale. The ground shook as sixty or more horsemen gathered speed, heading west. The Zhentilar foot soldiers advanced, too, striding purposefully to overwhelm the few defenders.
Shar caught a seeking sword on her dagger, warded it away, and drove her own blade into the man's throat. As he spun away, clutching the spraying gore, she sprang to meet the next man, leaping high to put all her weight behind the downstroke. Her steel glanced off the guards of a slow parrying blade and sheared through its wielder's jaw. He fell back, choking, and was trampled by his fellow soldiers in their hunger to get at her.
119
ED GREENWOOD
"Hold the line!" she heard Rath an Thentraver roar, somewhere to the left.
A Harper fell against her leg and went down, a sword in his face. Only Belkram's swift blade saved Shar, and they retreated together, Itharr striking aside Zhent blades from one side.
"Kiss my steel!" Torm shouted defiantly nearby, and was answered by a short scream.
Shar reeled, found her footing again, and glared wildly around. The defenders of Mistledale were reduced to a few knots of struggling swordsthemselves and the Knights of Myth Drannor. The gaps in the line were so large now that the farmers, back behind the fray, could loose shafts freely through themand only that paltry but deadly fire was keeping the Zhents from sweeping forward to surround and rout them.
The horns called anew. The defenders fell back again, seeking another line of standards as lightnings danced briefly among the Zhents. The creek was far off now, across a sea of bobbing black helms, and the iron taste of grim despair rose in Sharantyr's mouth.
They were all going to die here, today, swept away by a thousand Zhent blades, sent to their deaths by Elmin-ster in this dark time on Faerun., . .
With a crash that shook the battlefield, the Zhent cavalry and the Riders of Mistledale rushed together. A breath later, something flashed across the sky. The Zhentarim spellmaster tried another futile spelland was answered by Jhessail and Illistyl, who sent a dancing serpent of flame through the ranks of the advancing armsmen.
Shar heard Sylune^s voice rise in sudden passion. An instant later, a knot of Zhentilar armsmen levitated into the air, waving weapons in futile horror, lofting high above the battlefield.
Some of their fellows were too slow witted to avoid walking beneath the shouting spell victims and were gawking up at their fellows aloft when the Zhentilar
ALL SHADOWS FLED
plunged back to earth. They crashed down like so much spilled kindling to smash into bloody ruin on the earth and raised blades below.
The Zhent advance faltered. In the sudden lull, a man in old and shiny black Rider armor pushed past Shar and strode into the Zhent ranks, a shimmering arrowhead of force preceding him, cleaving men who stood in his way.
"Here me, Tempus, Lord of Battles!" the man roared as he went, hands raised and empty. "Let the old warriors rise, if it pleases ye! Raise a ring of skulls, I entreat ye! Oh, Tempus!"
It was the old Rider, Baergil. A Zhent, drawn sword in hand, ducked around behind the old priest's magic and raced in. As he jerked back the white-horse helm and drew his sword viciously across the exposed throat, there came one last, bubbling cry of Tempusss!"
The spell was complete. Baergil's body blazed with sudden blue fire. His slayer fell back in awe. The dead priest hung upright in the streaming flames, hands uplifted to the sky, and men murmured at the sight.
Cries of awe and fear came as the trampled turf under the Zhents erupted. Staring things of mottled green and brown bones burst up out of the soil . . . rising through the horrified armsmen to form into a silent, floating ring of skulls just overhead. Many battles had been fought by the banks of Swords Creek, and countless warriors had fallen here, to lie under the earth until called up by so mighty a magic.
The eyes of the skulls flared into sudden fire, the same cold, eerie blue flame that blazed around Baergil. Zhentilar cried out in alarm and began to runbut nothing could flee fast enough to escape the rays of chill light that lanced from the skulls through the Zhent host.
Where those blue rays touched the running or striding armsmen of the Sword of the South, flesh melted away, leaving only bones. Skeletal warriors rushed on
121
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
for a pace or two, and then collapsed.
The Zhents on the far side of the creek and the defenders of Mistledaie alike stared in horror as thousands of armsmen died.
When no man was left standing between Baergil's corpse and the creek, the skulls turned until the rays that streamed from their glowing sockets met in the heart of the field of bones. Blue light pulsed and built to almost blinding fury, and gauntlets were raised to shield eyes all over the battlefield. An armored form strode along in the heart of the radiance.
It had been striding forever, it seemed, fearless and patient, a figure twelve feet tall and clad in a full suit of gleaming plate armor, visor down. As the rays began to fade and the skulls sank back to the earth in silent unison, the armored figure was suddenly among them, treading on Zhentilar bones without a sound, walking toward Baergil.
"The War God," someone whispered. The defenders of Mistledaie fell back at the armored giant's approach.
In eerie silence, two flaming blue gauntlets reached out and took up the priest's body, cradling it against the massive chest. The Knights of Myth Drannor parted in respectful silence. The helm turned slowly from side to side to survey them, and for just a moment Shar felt the scorching weight of eyes that blazed like two red flames.
In silence, Tempus strode on, west toward distant Ashabenford, bearing Baergil's body in his arms. To those who watched, it seemed the body began to burn, blazing its own miniature pyre.
The implacable avatar vanished over the hill . . . and left the handful of weary men and women to defend Mistledaie against several thousand shaken Zhentilar soldiers.
What was left of the Sword of the South stood along the east bank of Swords Creek, still more than enough armsmen to crush the few who resisted them. Their
hireswords and booty brothers were among the fallen; those who remained were veteran Zhent blackhelms. In fearful, sullen silence, they eyed the field of death before them, but orders were shouted, and officers ran about brandishing maces . . . and reluctantly, the soldiers of Zhentit Keep began to advance.
"It must be now," Sharantyr heard Sylune say quietly.
In the distance, there came a sudden burst of radiance as the Witch of Shadowdale appeared in the heart of the Zhents ... in the small space between Swordlord Amglar and Spellmaster Nentor Thuldoum. The men broke off their arguing to gape in unison at the beautiful woman who stood between them, the glow of her magic fading around her.
"Well met indeed, gentlesirs," Sylune" told them softly, raising her lithe arms in glee.
The magic missiles that streamed out of her riddled both men, even before the fireballs and bolts of lightning leapt forth in then* wake.
Amglar and Nentor of the Zhentarim died screaming.
Sylun6 sang a terrible, wordless song of rage and sorrow for the body she was losing, and her slim-hipped form blazed white with the fury of the magic coursing through her.
Zhentilar stared at the dancing, burning figure in their midst, and then perished in the whirlwind of unleashed spells that sprayed death in all directions from the woman.
Florin swallowed what might have been a sob as he watched bright flames gout from Sylune's eyes and mouth, streaming across scorched turf to immolate shouting Zhentilar, whose vainly hurled spears vanished in that inferno.
There came a quickening of the spell fury, and Sylune's head was gone, blown away with the awesome energies pouring from her. The headless body turned as if it could see, and raised its hands to burn fleeing
4-123 +
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Zhent horsemen from their distant saddles. Flames streamed from her neck and hands . . . and before she turned away, her hands were gone, and spells were now leaping from the stumps of her arms.
Someone was rallying the Zhentilar as the stream of spells flickered, and then ceased . . . and men in ebon armor charged across the smoking ground, blades raised to slay the swaying, disintegrating Witch of Shadowdale.
"No!" Belkram roared, waving his own blade in sudden fury. "For Mistledale! For Sylune!" He rushed across the strewn bones, his sword held high. Itharr and Florin raced to catch up to him. Sharantyr was moving before she thought about it, following her companions into a band of scattered, dazed-looking Zhent blackhelms still several hundred strong.
Beside her, Shar saw flashing legs and a bouncing bosom, and turned to see Jhessail sprinting along, weaponless, with Illistyl running at her heels and Merith moving with fluid grace and drawn sword.
"Wait!" Rathan puffed, behind them. "Save some Zhents for me!"
They were almost at the stream and the grim-faced foremost Zhents who stood there when what was left of the Witch of Shadowdale vanished in a burst of snarling flames that threw men headlong or sent them fleeing wildly back toward the trees.
Then Belkram, Itharr, and Florin splashed across the stream, roaring out their grief together. They fell upon the Zhents like three maddened reapers mowing wheat. It was the last such harvest that their foes needed to see: the shattered Sword of the South broke and fled, an army no more.
Belkram ran on toward the dying flames that had been Sylune, and Itharr and Florin paced him, sword-ing the few blackhelms foolish enough to get in their way. Sharantyr tried to catch up, but her lungs were burning; she'd never seen men run so fast before.
By the time she reached the spot where Belkram knelt, the Harper was on his knees amid the smoldering ashes, weeping.
The stone cradled so gently in his gauntlets had cracked in the heat. "Lady," Belkram sobbed despairingly, "leave us not!"
But there came no reply but the creak of cooling stone. The Harper raised a face that streamed tears and cried to Florin, "Do something!"
The Knight smiled down at him and undid the last buckle of his chest armor. As it fell open, he drew forth something he wore on a chain. A lump of stone. All of the gathered adventurers saw a streak of ghostly radiance arc from the shattered stone to the good one.
The stone winked once with its stored fire, reassuringly. Florin took off the chain and handed it to Belkram. "Yours, I think," the Shield of Shadowdale said quietly. "I think she's grown tired of Torm's tricks."
Belkram's eyes shone. He was still struggling to speak when the Riders of Mistledale swept past with lowered lances, ruthlessly riding down fleeing Zhents. "For Baergil!" they bellowed as they went. "For Baergil!"
Kuthe was in the foremost saddle, swaying and pale, blood all down his front from a deep wound in his shoulder. "Kuthe!" Jhessail called as he spurred his mount past. "Have done! They're beaten!"
He rode in a wide circle back to her, face set, and said, The field may be ours, Lady, but Mistledale is my home. Every Zhent who can still walk by sunset is a sword that can strike from darkness when we sleep! Ill not rest until they're all dead and done!"
Fflarast Blackriver and the old Harper who'd seen the sky rain wizards for the first time yesterday lay side by side under the very hooves of Kuthe's mount as he snarled those words, but they did not hear him. Dust lay on their staring eyes and still faces, and the darkening blood spilled under them both was the same hue:
124
ED GREENWOOD
one could not tell which was the Harper's, and which belonged to the Zhentilar.
The leader of the Riders spurred away, the weary hooves of his mount trampling both bodies. Florin watched him go. "Where is the captain of the Riders?" he asked quietly.
"Who?" Rathan asked. That lady paladin?"
"Aye," Florin replied, "I've known her a long time."
"Oho," Torm spoke up, "an old lady friend, eh? May"
His crowing words ended in a sharp gasp as Illistyl thrust a sharp hand into his gut. "Someday, clever tongue," she warned him, "you'll say just one word too many. . . ."
"Uhhh," Torm agreed, doubled over.
"Indubitably," Rathan translated, looking at the breathless thief with interest.
Florin, ignoring them all, was striding across the field and looking for Captain Nelyssa.
He caught sight of her at last, hard by the trees on the southern edge of the dale, well behind the last standard the defenders of the dale had rallied around. A mound of Zhentilar lay heaped about her and the sprawled bulk of her horse. A band of blackhelms had tried to outflank the frayand paid for their cunning with their lives. There'd been over thirty of them, though, and it seemed the veteran Zhentilar armsmen were the measure of one paladin of Chauntea.
In a small lake of blood at the heart of the heaped dead lay the hacked and twisted form of Nelyssa, captain of the Riders of Mistledale, her armor torn open down the bloody mess of her front, and her notched and broken blade still clutched in her hand. Even as Florin broke into a run and shouted, lifting the heads of Harpers and farmers who knelt by the still form, he knew he was too late.
Nelyssa's face was unmarked, but bone-white; she looked very like the young lass Florin had known so long ago . . . but her eyes were dark and sightless. The
12,6
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ranger stared into them as he sank down beside her and let out a long, shuddering sigh of grief. Was this madness of strife going to claim all the best hearts and minds before it was done?
"I need your sword, noble Falconhand," said a voice as rough and sharp as the skin of its owner. Margrueth of the Harpers laid her hand on Florin's own. The ranger looked up at her, finding it suddenly hard to drag his eyes away from Nelyssa's frozen face.
When he did, he was shocked at what he saw. The fire of life had gone out of the Harper sorceress, too. She was gray to the lips, and her skin was sunken and shriveled so that it seemed a skull thinly draped with flesh. Only the eyes told him the feisty Margrueth still lived, eyes dancing like two lively dark flames. "You will aid me in this, Knight. I must have your oath on it."
"My oath?" Weary and sad as he was, Florin still found that he could be startled. He looked around at the wondering farmers and the grim-faced Harpers, leaving him alone with the living woman and the dead one. They looked back at him. His oath. Whatever for?
And then, because she was old Margrueth and she was a Harperand because he was Florin Falcon-handhe turned to meet those wise old eyes. Holding her gaze, he lifted his voice to say clearly, "In Mielikki's name and mine own, I, Florin Falconhand, born of Cor-myr, Lord of Shadowdale and Knight of Myth Drannor, promise on my honor to aid you, Margrueth, on this day and on this field, as you would command me."
"Nicely done," Margrueth said with a smile. "Now this is what 111 have you doand swiftly, for the spells I wove today burned much life from me ... I'd not live to see sunset whatever befell. Know for your own comfort that I act freely in this, and my wits are mine own."
She laid herself down, wheezing a little, atop Nelyssa's body, face to face, "Count four breaths, noble Florin, and plunge your blade into my back. Mind that it goes right through me, and into the lass beneath
127
En GREENWOOD
and that you hold it thus for a breath, no more. Do this." And with that order, she put her lips to the paladin's mouth.
Florin stared down at her, swallowed, and then said hurriedly, in the two breaths left to him, "You shall be remembered with honor, Margrueth!"
As he'd been bid, he brought his blade down in a clean thrust, right through the old sorceress, and into Nelyssa beneath, where her armor was all riven away down her front. Margrueth jerked once under his steel, and blue-white light, like many tiny lightnings, crackled and danced around the joined lips of the two women.
Florin drew his blade out carefully. For a moment, the same radiance clung to its suddenly shining length. It looked as bright and sharp as it was when new, the scrapes and nicks of battle gone from it.
Yet more wondrous far was what befell where it had been. Margrueth's body was twisting and contracting into a thing of curling smoke, to the accompaniment of one last, dry chuckle.
That sound faded, and Nelyssa's revealed body stirred, color returned to her face, and a light came into her dark eyes. She slowly sat up.
"Florin?" she asked softly as the Harpers and farmers around cried out in wonder, gasped, or wept, "Have I slept? Is the day wonor lost?"
And Florin Falconhand cast aside his blade and knelt to take her in his arms. "Won for some, Captain . . . won for Mistledale. And yet lost for others, lost forever. Margrueth traded her life for yours."
The captain of the Riders turned pale. "No!"
"Aye, Nelyssa," Florin said gently, "you must know this, and hear the truth. She chose freely, and worked a magic I did not know, binding me under oath. Mine was the blade that took her life, and gave it to you. She was at the end of her life, drained by this battle . . . and brought you back to us."
The paladin of Chauntea flung her arms around him
128
ALL SHADOWS FLED
and wept.
"Hmmph," Torm said to Rathan as they trudged across the field, taking up the best weapons and tossing them on a farmer's sledge to bear back to Ashabenford, "women never do that to me. My arms awaitsee? Here they are, two of them, and fairly well matched to each other, tooand do ladies sob their sorrows away into my breast? No! Is it the cut of his chin, d'you think? The wave in his hair? His strong, manly bearing? Those gleaming teeth?"
"All of those," his friend agreed. "Now give me a hand with this halberdthree dead ones draped over it, look ye; threeand take comfort in the fact that ye've probably been in almost as many strange beds as he has . . . an' that ye're better far at stealing things."
"Umm," Torm agreed, looking again at the woman in Florin's arms. His eyes fell to the dark, sticky puddle of blood they shared, and he swallowed. So much blood. .. .
"When we get back to the Six Shields," he told Rathan fiercely, "I'm going to get very drunk!"
"Oh? Don't forget that ye lost the bet with Sylune! We won the battle, so ye have to wear the scanties ye were putting on her, an' go sit in the window!"
"But she's . . . dead. You won't hold me to"
"Oh, but I will," Rathan said softly. "In memory of her, ye will sit in that window this night, if I have to break thy limbs to get the fripperies onto ye."
Torm tore a gorget free of a Zhentilar who'd not be needing it anymore, and flung it with a clatter onto the sledge. "I'm going to get very very drunk!" he said fiercely, "first."
"Hmm," Rathan said, lifting a body into the air with one hand to pluck daggers free with the other, "that'll make the dressing an amusing affair. May I watch?"
ED GREENWOOD
"He'll be too drunk to stop anyone from watching," one buzzard commented to the other, shifting a little on a low, bare branch as a nearby farmer gave them a dirty look, bent to pick up a fallen bow, and then shrugged and turned away, knowing he couldn't hit the tree, let alone two watchful carrion birds.
"Faerun certainly affords more entertainment than Shadowhome," Bralatar said, remembering the battle as he looked out over the ravaged field.
"And because the peril to and consequences for us are the less, one can really enjoy it," Lorgyn replied, watching Merith and Jhessail embrace, and Illistyl, after a moment, turn and look around the battlefield for Torm.
"I cannot understand the thinking of Yinthrim, to throw life and all the unfolding chances of this world away just to try to avenge kin who may well have plotted his own death, had they lived."
"Atari, yes," Lorgyn agreed, "would always plunge into battle, given the slightest of excuses, but such folly is unusual for Yinthrim." He looked at the site of the tent where the two Malaugrym had perished the night beforenow a trampled sward strewn with sprawled bodies. He shrugged. "I guess battle hunger overtook them."
"Battle hunger? Attacking three sleeping humans is something done out of 'battle hunger1?" Bralatar had a fine, showy grasp of sarcastic incredulity when something aroused him to it. He shifted on the branch, fluttering his feathers in irritation. "Admit they liked to slay folk, and fatally misjudged the fervor of these mortals, and have done with it. Two fewer fools to breed will make our house that much the stronger."
"A phrase fit for a speech of any Shadowmaster High," Lorgyn acknowledged, bowing his head. "So when, in your judgment, would it be best that we make our strike against the three who dared to intrude into
ISO
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Shadowhome, and slay so many Malaugrym?''
"When those three rangers are much older, and we've seen far more of this worldor at least, not now," Bralatar replied with his usual sharp humor. "Those two maids over thereJhessail and Illistyl, if I heard arightstill have spells left. And who knows how many of those Harpers are mages? I'm not descending into the midst of a battlefield where one old man called down a god not long ago!"
"And the Lord of Battles at that," Lorgyn agreed. "Now is not a good time."
" 'Now' is never a good time," Bralatar said dryly.
"At first light," Florin ordered, looking around the map-strewn room, "we ride north to Shadowdale, where our swords are sorely needed."
Kuthe nodded grimly. "Haste must be our course, yes." He looked at the cot where Nelyssa lay, nodding weakly.
"I shall ride to Shadowdale on the morrow," she said firmly, "and any man who shouts at me not to go will serve me as a replacement mount!"
Kuthe closed his open mouth stiffly, and turned his head away, then swung it around again, opened his mouth to speak, caught her eyeand closed his jaws once more.
Torm and Rathan, scratching at their rough, stiff bandages, sputtered with mirth and went out hastily.
"Ah, 'twas worth all that jabber to see Lord High-and-Mighty's face!" Torm chuckled. "Now, let's be finding that drink I was talking of..."
"I'll go with ye," Rathan said grimly. "Too many friends fell this day. I want to feel a small fire in my belly this night."
Torm raised his eyebrows. "And why not? You do that every other night; why change things now?"
131
ED GREENWOOD
Rathan favored him with both a weary look and an unpriestly gesture.
*****
Just after the two Knights had wearily passed around a corner of the street, a door swung open, and Illistyl hurried, white-faced, out into the waiting night. Her mind yet burned with the sight of a Rider's crushed leg being amputated, the grim faces of sawing surgeon and patient, the Rider's rolling eyes. Illistyl shook her head as she stumbled along in the darkness, but could not shake the images away. .. .
Suddenly something was rising within her. She fell heavily to her knees and vomited into the dark grass.
A weary Rider turned his head at the sound, watched her sobbing out the contents of her stomach, and turned back to sewing up a comrade's slashed arm.
"Hmm," he said thoughtfully, "it seems great adventurers are human after all."
His older companion winced as the needle went in again. "Oh, they're human, lad ... all too human. That's where most of the trouble begins."
132
Eoen WizoRds Mast Die
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 18
The mists of morning were still drifting off the river as the Knights of Myth Drannor and the Riders of Mistledale rode north together, leather creaking loudly among the riverbank trees. They pressed on, stiff and sore from yesterday's fighting, but more than one Rider wore a wondering smile as he looked around at the awakening forest on this bright morning he'd not expected to see.
"Such a victory," one man muttered to his companion. "Thousands we sent to their graves. 'Twas the favor of the gods, to be sure, that we weren't all sent to the Deathrealms in their first charge, and Mistledale laid waste before highsun!"
"Aye, we place much store in the favor of the gods," his comrade replied, "or we'd not be riding straight into another battle!" He pointed ahead. Plumes of smoke rose into the sky to the north.
Shadowdale was burning.
The Knights and Riders pressed on up the Mistle Trail, urging their mounts to greater haste.
Torm waved a hand at the smoke and said loudly and bitterly, "Look! Well get there in time to join the Zhents at their fires, with the dale pillaged and burned and not
ED GREENWOOD
a man or maid left to fight for!"
"Say not so!" Merith told him, but Kuthe and Nelyssa nodded slowly.
"We've taken this way in haste before," the captain of the Riders said, her eyes very dark, "and spent more than a day in the forest... and that was a few riders on fresh, swift mountsnot a force this large that fought yesterday."
Belkram was frowning and holding his head to one side, as if listening to something. He straightened in his saddle and said, "There is a way to take us there more swiftly."
Florin Falconhand, who rode at the head of the column, turned his head. "You mean magic," he said grimly. tfls that wise, given the chaos ruling sorcery?"
Belkram listened for a breath longer, and then shrugged. "Sylune says teleportation seems unaffectedit served her even on the battlefield yester-morn, passing wild magic shields to do so."
"Without a body, she can't cast any spells," Kuthe pointed out. "What good is it if the Lady Jhessail here hurls one of us on ahead? A lone rider makes a better target than a relief force!"
"There is a way to take us all," Belkram replied slowly, passing on the words from the stone that held the Witch of Shadowdale. "Elminster taught it to m her."
The ranger nodded. "There is a risk," Florin said; it was a statement, not a query. He looked around at the others, holding up his hand for a halt. "Are you willing to take on that danger? All of you?"
The Knights nodded without hesitation. Among the Riders were some swift glances back and forth, and shrugs. One .leaned forward and asked Florin, "Are you?"
The Shield of Shadowdale shrugged. "Of course."
"He's a Knight of Myth Drannor," Rathan explained as if to a child.
154*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Which is to say, he's a reckless idiot," Torm elaborated in a stage whisper.
The men of Mistledale were still chuckling when Captain Nelyssa said crisply, "I will undergo this magic. Let us be about it."
"We'll need some space," Belkram said, and pointed into the trees. "That glade there."
Nelyssa nodded. "Let all who are unwilling to chance this spell stay here on the trail." She turned her horse's head and guided it into the trees.
As they followed, Belkram looked at Jhessail. "You must do the casting."
She wrinkled her nose at him. "So I'd gathered."
No one stayed on the road. When everyone was arrayed around Belkram, he took off the chain and gave it to Jhessail. She held up the stone, and grew still for a moment as she listened. Merith, who'd been in such castings before, slid deftly from his saddle and lay on the ground, taking hold of one hoof of his horse and one of his lady's ankles. Florin edged his mount over to take a firm hold on Merith's horse, and Sharantyr, Itharr, Belkram, Captain Nelyssa, and Kuthe followed, creating a human chain.
Jhessail smiled her thanks, and said, "Draw in close, everyoneto touch at least one other person or their mount. Remain that way, and don't pull free until we're elsewhere."
She drew a deep breath and put the stone into her mouth. Closing her eyes in concentration, Jhessail followed Sylune's guidance in the casting. The loop of chain dangling from her chin rattled as she moved. After a brief series of gestures, she threw both hands high into the air and froze.
A blue mist raced out from her body to swirl around them all. It rose, growing thicker and winking with small flashes of blue light . . . light that was suddenly blinding, blotting the world out in an shifting, drifting swirl. . . that faded away to show Faerun again.
135
ED GREENWOOD
They were in a different clearinga larger space littered with felled trees and stacked firewood. To the north was daylight, where the woods gave way to the first fields of Shadowdale. Through the cloaking trees, they saw the stone bridge over the Ashaba, where a watchful guard always stood.
A guard of three frightened old men, whose spears trembled in their hands as they shouted in alarm at the sudden appearance of so many horsemen. Florin took his hand from Merith's horse to raise it in a reassuring salute.
Jhessail shuddered and collapsed silently onto her husband, the stone falling from her mouth.
"Is she?" Belkram and Itharr said together, leaning anxiously down. Merith cradled her as he reached out, plucked up the stone that was Sylune, and held it up to Belkram.
"Drained, not dead," the elf said softly. "A mass tele-port is something far beyond her Art. Though Sylune gave direction, my Jhess worked the spell."
"We must still make haste," Nelyssa reminded.
Illistyl frowned. "Florin! Come back here!"
The ranger, who was halfway to the bridge, acknowledged the relieved greetings of the dalesmen before he turned questioningly.
"I haven't Art to equal Jhess's," the younger sorceress said, "but I can manage something you should use now."
Florin was already hurrying his war horse back to her. Firefoam had paced restlessly back and forth behind the lines of the battle yesterday, and was eager to get into a proper fray; he snorted and tossed his head as they approached Illistyl, fearing he would be relegated to stand and watch, again. The diminutive sorceress stood looking up at him as his great muzzle lowered to her nose.
"How would you like to fly?" she asked softly.
Firefoam's bugle awoke echoes from the trees around and made many of the other horses stamp and whinny.
15(5
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Fly ahead," Illistyl said, looking up at Florin, "and see where we're needed. Rally folk, and return if you need us anywhere in particularotherwise, we'll just charge on up the road and kill Zhents!"
"A shrewd grasp of tactics," Captain Nelyssa said dryly.
Illistyl cast her spell with deft speed.
Florin scooped the limp form of Jhessail from Merith's arms and settled her against his own chest.
"Done! Get you gone!" Illistyl cried, waving her hands; Florin smiled his thanks and saluted as Fire-foam bounded aloftand was gone across the sky, heading for the distant Tower of Ashaba.
As they hurried across, Jhessail asked the first old farmer on the bridge, "How goes the battle?"
"Not well," he rasped. "Too many Zhents!"
"A problem we're familiar with," Torm agreed grandly, urging his horse off the bridge.
An instant later, the ground rocked and thundered. Riders fought to control snorting mounts and stay in their saddles as they gaped at a huge ball of flame that rose up, up into the sky over Shadowdale.
"The tower?" Illistyl gasped, white to the lips. "Florin?"
"Not the tower," Jhessail said, shaking her head. "But close by, west and south."
"The temple of Lathander," Rathan grunted, "or I'm an idiot."
"You are an idiot," Torm pointed out.
Rathan's reply was a certain wordless gesture with his mace as he hauled on the reins, taking his horse to one side of the cart road and gaining room to gallop. Torm cast a quick look back to see all the Riders doing so, and pulled his mount to the left, catching a glare from Kuthe for his tardiness.
"Ready, all?" Captain Nelyssa asked crisply. "For-wardr
At her yell, they nudged their mounts into a gallop
137
ED GREENWOOD
and swept north into the heart of Shadowdale.
The smoke lay like a haze in the air here, drifting out of the trees to the east, and the fields around them were green and deserted. Up ahead, they could hear the swelling sound of shouts and screams and the clangor of steel on steel. Here and there a blade flashed as it caught the sunlight through the smoke and swirling dust.
The crossroads in front of the Old Skull Inn was heaped with dead. The twisted mounds were so high the Zhentilar, advancing in a great horde from the east, had to scramble and climb. The grisly, slippery wall was being held against them by desperate dalesmen wielding axes and blades.
Among the dusty defenders were Storm Silverhand and her sister, Dove, both clad in battered and scorched plate armor but bareheaded, their silver tresses swirling as they fought. Storm leapt into the air and smashed aside a foe's blade, her other hand snaking in to take him by the throat. Muscles rippled in her arm as they crashed back down to earth together. The Zhent blackhelm struggled for a moment in her iron grip then fell limp, his neck broken. Two of his fellows scrambled up the mound of dead, waving blades to get their chance at the Bard of Shadowdale.
Dove Falconhand took that chance away, rushing along the line of defenders to thrust one Zhent desperately aside into the other armsman. Off-balance, the blackhelms stumbled among the corpses. Storm dumped the man she'd just slain atop one, and kicked the other in the face with her boot. He fell down the heap, head rolling limply, and was smashed aside by more Zhentilar rushing up to challenge Storm in their turn.
"That's the problem with Zhents," Rathan growled as they turned their horses toward the black-armored host crowded up against the wall of dead. "There're always too many of them."
138
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Lances down!" Nelyssa cried, and led the charge.
Through the thunder of pounding hooves they heard someone of Shadowdale cry, "The Riders! The Riders of Mistledale!"
"And the mighty Torm, too!" the thief shouted back, just before they crashed into the Zhent lines.
Men reeled like broken dolls under the impact of hooves and lances and thundering war horses, and when the press of bodies slowed their progress, the Riders let go their lances and laid about themselves with swords and maces.
"Shadowdale!" Dove Falconhand snarled, leading a charge from the ridge of slain.
There were screams of agony and frustration from the Zhents, packed too tightly together to raise weapons or move from the blades.
A desperately wielded spear sought Term's thigh; he sprang from his saddle and vaulted into the fray, drawn sword extended between his boots. He came down atop a Zhentilar and rode the man to the ground, stabbing viciously with the dagger in his free hand. The man convulsed and lay still; by then Torm was two kills away, his slim blade and dagger sliding in and out before the close-packed Zhents could react.
With a wall of corpses around him like a shield, he struck out from between their bodies, swift and sure, thrusting, dancing away from blades ,.. until the crash of a felled Rider and his horse cleared some space, and the dead began to topple and slump all around.
Into the opened space leapt Storm, clapping a gasping Torm on his shoulder. "Bravely done!"
"Ahall for . . . you . . . Lady," Torm huffed, trying to essay a courtly bowand slipping in gore so that he lurched to one knee. The fall saved his life; a whirling axe meant for his head flashed harmlessly through empty air.
Storm hauled him upright. "The battle's this way," she said helpfully, pointing with a sword that was red
ED GREENWOOD
to the hilt.
He gave her a fierce smile in answer. Then his jaw dropped. "By the gods, look!" he bellowed, pointing. Storm turned in time to see Belkram, Itharr, and Shar-antyr advance another pace through the ranks of Zhen-tilar. Fighting in unison, standing close together in a human arrowhead, they were dealing death with furious speed.
"The Rangers Three," Storm said, watching her pupils in admiration.
The hesitant gangliness she'd seen all too often the day she'd fought Belkram and Itharr at the farmhouse was gone. Now they moved like dancers, deft and quick. Sharantyr was the key. Her smooth style had drawn the two Harpers into a team. Storm began to believe their survival in the castle of the Malaugrym was more than good fortune bolstered by the aid of Mystra and Elminster. She shook her head in pleased admiration and threw herself into the battle once more, coming up alongside the Rangers Three in their bloody foray into the Zhent ranks.
The Rider charge had cleared space enough to fight, and the easy killing was done. Fresh Zhents were pressing forward for their first chance to fight, and there seemed no end to them.
They'd struck at Shadowdale from the west, and from the north. Some fell magic had wrought a great explosion and fire westward, hard by the Twisted Tower. There was fighting all over the dale, and the day might still be lostbut this welcome, unexpected aid had come from Mistledale, from whence she'd expected only more blackhelms.
"Azuth be with us," she breathed, feeling fresh sorrow at the thought that Mystra was no more.
Storm swept her notched long sword up to strike aside a reaching halberd. Catching hold of it as the man rushed helplessly forward, she pulled, sprawling him to the turf in front of her. A dalesman stabbed the Zhent
14O-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
in the face before he could rise, and from somewhere near at hand Storm heard the deep laughter of Bronn Selgard, the smith. Dove must be rallying the last folk from the inn to join this push, to drive the Zhents back into the trees.
There was a ringing sound as the great iron-headed hammer Bronn wielded crashed down on some unfortunate Zhent's helm. The winded Rangers Three began to fall back. A spell hurled bodies in all directions, tearing a breach in the wall of corpses behind her.
Storm turned, frowningcreating a breach for the Zhents to pour through? What simpleton had birthed such a plan?and then laughed aloud in delight.
"For Shadowdale!" came the roar from beyond the wall. Warriors in full plate armor rode through the breach, lances gleaming. At their head, three figures rode abreast: Florin; Mourngrym, lord of Shadowdale; and Shaerl, his lady.
" 'Ware!" Storm yelled to the Rangers Three, waving them aside.
Dove sprang acrobatically across the path of the charging horses, somersaulted in a clanking of protesting armor, and fetched up beside Storm. Just then, the lances of the charging dalefolk came down, crashing into the massed Zhentilar in a great screaming of men and horses and tortured metal.
As first, the horses were slowed by the sheer weight of blackhelms standing against them. The mounted armsmen of the tower spurred out and around them, striking at the foe on either side. When the last horseman had charged, the Zhent lines had fallen back a good twenty pacesa distance marked by a carpet of black-armored fallen.
The dale riders pulled back to spare their horses from Zhent blades, and a cheer went up from the weary farmers and merchants who'd held the wall of dead so long against the forefront of the Zhent army.
A little space opened up between the defenders and
141
ED GREENWOOD
the army of Zhentil Keep; Dove stared across it and hissed, "Oh, for some arrows . . ."
"All gone, hours ago," Storm told her, and they embraced wearily, eyes on the foe. Both sides had paused to catch breath, it seemed, staring at each other across the fallen, but making no move to attack.
"Gods, look how many there are," Shaerl murmured. "Can we hold them until sunset?"
"We must," Mourngrym replied shortly, looking around at the dead. "And dark'll bring the wolves and wild dogs out to feed, too."
"Well fought, you three," Storm called to Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr, who'd sat down together on some dead Zhentilar, rubbing at aching shoulders and bruised forearms.
"Of course," Itharr replied. "After all, you taught us."
Storm chuckled. "To dance with your blade, aye, a littlebut fighting as one is your own doing."
"They're coming again," Dove said, striding forward. " "Ware, all!"
She swung her sword in wide, wild arcs to loosen stiffening muscles, and set herself to meet the Zhentilar attack; a cautious affair this time, with two or three blackhelms moving against each defender.
"This could be bad," Belkram murmured.
Sharantyr sighed. "Just try to stay alive ... I need you both."
"You do?" Itharr asked, adopting Term's manner of mock astonishment.
"I do," Sharantyr growled back at him. "We've got those Malaugrym to catch, remember?"
"Gods," Belkram cursed as he caught a hard-swung Zhent blade on his own and was driven a pace back. "Do Elminster's little tasks never end?"
"Where is Elminster, anyway?" Itharr panted, slashing a staggering Zhent across the face and bringing his blade up into the throat of the blackhelm fencing with Sharantyr.
14S
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Off saving some other corner of the Realms, no doubt," Belkram said, driving his foe back with a few solid swings.
"I don't care about other corners of the Realms," Torm called to them, "only the one I'm in."
"An essentially selfish philosophy," Dove scolded him.
"But one that all lesser mortals must needs cling to, if they want to cling to life," Torm returned archly. He threw the blade in his hand into one eye of a snarling Zhent, who was charging in beside the one he was fighting. The man crashed down, and the thief leapt high to avoid being knocked over. His Zhent opponent wasn't so nimble, and toppled sideways, whereupon Hammer-hand Bucko, the wagonmaker of the dale, calmly crushed the man's head with a sledgehammer.
"Thank you," Torm told him politely.
After gaping at him for a moment in amazement, Hammerhand grinned.
A trumpet rang out, the Zhents pressed forward, and the defenders of Shadowdale became all too busy to talk.
A tortured scream topped the fray as Nelyssa's mount reared up, three blades in its belly, and went down. The paladin threw herself clear at the last moment. Only some desperate bladework by Storm and Dove, sparks dancing from their furiously plied blades, kept the captain of the Riders alive until she could find her feet and fight on.
Kuthe grunted in pain and went down, a spear through him, and a moment later the Rider beside him fell, transfixed by three Zhent blades.
"Too many of them!" Merith snarled in frustration, swinging two swords in deadly, whirling unison. "What price sundown now?"
"There's too many! We can't hold them!" Illistyl shouted, swinging a sword awkwardly.
"We must hold them!" Mourngrym snarled back at her from the heart of a knot of Zhents.
ED GREENWOOD
"Where in the name of the Seven Dancing Gods is the Old Mage?" Storm raged as she carved her way to the lord of Shadowdale. "Especially now that we need himfor once."
"The temple," a wounded priest of Lathander gasped from behind her. "He stood alone thereor with a woman, some saidagainst Bane himself!"
Storm turned and stared at the rising column of black smoke that marked the distant temple. "No," she whispered. "Oh, no." She leapt clear of the fray, scant inches ahead of a Zhent blade, and sprinted away across the heaped dead.
Sharantyr turned, hacked through a Zhent black-helm twice her size, and saw Storm spring into the saddle of a dale war horse. It leapt into a full gallop like an arrow shot from a bow, heading west.
Though Shar whirled back to face another foe, she still saw Storm's anguished face in her mind. No one should look like that. Nothing should ever happen in Faerun to make the Bard of Shadowdale look like that.
She parried the Zhentilar blade and spun away to run after Storm's racing dapple gray, heedless of the heaped dead.
Uncertainly, Belkram turned to follow, but Itharr shouted in alarm.
"Look you!" He pointed the other way, east beyond Krag Pool, where new plumes of smoke were rising through the green leaves of the trees.
"Gods," Shaerl gasped, her face white, as she stared east into the blazing forest. "The Zhents have fired the wood! The dale may become our pyre yet!"
The defenders of Shadowdale, too few and too weary to fight a blaze, stared at the quickening flames in horror.
"Now," Dove said firmly, " 'tis time!" She held up the blade she bore and called, "Eanamorrath!"
Lighting leapt from its suddenly blazing length, crackling along the line of blackhelms to strike the
+ 144 +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
blade Lord Florin wielded. His sword flashed. Florin hissed at the shock of the bolt surging through the weapon, and then the lightning leapt back, sinking back into Dove's blade as if it were an errant phantom returning home.
In its wake lay a blackened path of dead Zhentilar, sprawled wherever the bolt had danced, and the air was sharp with the smell of the strike that had felled them. The surviving Zhent warriors drew back in disarray, leaving the defenders alone with the dead.
"Florin!" Itharr shouted. "Lord Florin!"
The Shield of Shadowdale turned his head.
Itharr called, "We must pray to Mielikki for a downpour!"
"But if all the gods are cast down and powerless . . ." a Rider leaning on his sword nearby said.
"No! He's right!" Illistyl snapped. "Mielikki and El-dath dwell in Faerun; their power is sourced here. Shaerl! Is your maid, Jenna, anywhere about?"
"II sent her to help Jhaele tend the wounded at the Old Skull," Shaerl said doubtfully, wiping sweat and tangled hair out of her eyes. "Why?"
"She worships Eldath," Illistyl snarled. "Come!"
"And what of the Zhents?" Mourngrym bellowed. He waved an arm to indicate the hundreds of Zhentilar still facing them, though the blackhelms seemed to be retreating to the trees at the edge of the dale.
"Fall back," Illistyl told him. "Back to this ridge of bodies. You can see the inn from there, and Florin and the Rangers Three can join Jenna in prayer. If the woods burn, we are all lost, whether we fight for Shadowdale or Zhentil Keep!"
They all stared at her a moment, then scrambled to take up new positions among the mounds of fallen. Belkram, Itharr, and Sharantyr found themselves trotting toward the inn, panting, while Florin ran on ahead, feet racing as if he were rested and fresh. Shaerl and Mourngrym ran along behind them as rearguard, and
ED GREENWOOD
the stout priest Rathan puffed after the hurrying band.
"Gods," Belkram said, stumbling as his throbbing feet sent fresh lances of pain upward. "I don't think the gods meant me to be a hero! Being one of those sleeping temple guards seems more within my grasp!"
"Here, now!" Rathan Thentraver said in offended tones. "Dost thou slander the holy?"
"All too often," Itharr told him as they picked their way among the wounded laid on blankets, restless in their pain. Someone was wailing in grief, and blood-soaked bandagesand flieswere everywhere. "What does this Jenna look like?"
"Just look for Florin," Belkram instructed, pointing at the open inn door, "He must be in th"
The ground heaved. A deafening howl of rage and grief smashed into the ears of everyone in Shadowdale. Thrown to their knees, the three rangers looked back east, from whence the sound had come.
A sphere of raging flames hung high in the air over the burning trees, spinning. The flames from the woods below were being drawn up into it. It pulsed, becoming almost blinding in its furybut against the bright whirling flames a figure could be seen standing in its fiery heart; a wildly leaping figure clad in the black tatters of a gown.
"Oh, sweet gods spare us!" someone gasped.
The woods were dark and hissing now as the last fire soared up out of them. The sphere spun once more before it hurled its fire down in a ravening beam of utter destruction, into the Zhent soldiers crowded along the Voonlar road. They did not even have time to scream before they were tumbling ashes. The scouring flames lashed the very stones into rum.
The Central Blade of Bane's Black Gauntlet was no more.
"Who?" one of the Riders asked in awe, staring up at the figure who stood on empty air above the trees, all her flames spent now.
14<5
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"The Simbul," Shaerl whispered. She turned, swept a tankard off a table, and drained it at a single gulp.
"The Witch-Queen?" the man gasped. "The Shield Against Thay?"
"The same," Shaerl replied bitterly, and turned into Mourngrym's arms with a sob.
"This can only mean one thing," the lord of Shadow-dale said grimly, holding his shaking, weeping lady. "El-minster is dead."
147
1O Time to be JmAy HeRoes
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 18
In a deepness that very few Malaugrym know, in the ever-shifting cellars of the Castle of Shadows, there was a place where thinking shadows glided endlessly through the gloom, vast and slow. These ponderous phantoms circled a grotto where shapeshifters who bore the title Shadowmaster High had been wont to hide the bones of rivals and others they'd deemed expedient to make 'vanish.'
The grotto was a cold cavern of rough rock where waters dripped endlessly among the pale, chill glows of fungi, but at its heart two seats faced each otherseats carved out of the flanks of massive, ancient stalagmites . . . and these seats each bore a curious graven symbol believed to be the sign of Malaug himself. It was a rune found in few places in the Castle of Shadows, and all of its occurrences were well known in the lore of the House of Malaugsave these two.
There was not much else to see in the bone-white glow but tumbled rock and bones . . . but there was much to feel, hanging heavy and watchful on all sides.
Even the youngest Shadowmasters had heard tales of locales in Shadowhome where mighty magics slumbered, which only the Shadowmaster High could per-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ceive and wield. This was one of those places.
The young and ambitious Malaugrym Argast and Amdramnar had recently discovered the grotto in separate, private explorations. Both had been guided in their wanderings among the shifting shadows by the writings of Shadowmaster High Melvydur. Dead these thousand years and more, Melvydur mentioned the grotto as the place where the dynasty he founded was conceivedand where he laid to rest the bodies of all his sons who rebelled against him. His writings end when the last son succeeded in destroying Melvydur.
This secret grotto of silent bones and uncaring rock was a gloomy place . . . but it was a place of power. Ancient magic lay heavy in the air, awaiting the right word or gesture to awaken it. And more than anything else, those of the blood of Malaug hungered after power.
Argast and Amdramnar were rivals, and perhaps the best of the younger generation of Shadowmasters. Certainly they were the most subtle, patient, and polite in their dealingsand so commanded the most respect, not to mention fear, among their elders. Those elders would have been most surprised to see them sharing any place in relative peace.
Indeed, as they sat facing each other, their faces were grim and wary, their fingers very close to hurling slaying spells and wielding powerful and deadly items. Yet they sat, and did not move to rend and slay. Their elders were right to fear them.
"Have we agreement?" Argast asked.
"By my name, we do," Amdramnar replied. "Have we agreement?"
"By my name, we do," Argast responded as they watched the drops of their blood slowly flow together into the vial.
They rose as one, and Argast took the vial and stoppered it, handing it to Amdramnar to place on the seat he'd vacated. What befell one Shadowmaster would now also afflict the otheruntil the vial was broken by
149
ED GREENWOOD
someone using the right spells to prevent grave damage to them both.
"If this agreement is to end, we must both meet here to quench it," Argast intoned, continuing the old ritual both of them had read about, but never witnessed.
"Agreed. When we meet, each of us may bring with him one other of the houseno more, and no other beings," Amdramnar responded.
"Agreed," they affirmed together, and walked away from the heart of the grotto, to where the cloaking shadows slid endlessly by.
"Were it not for so many destroyed," Argast said as their eyes met again, "I should never have agreed to work with you in anything. And yet now I welcome the prospect."
Amdramnar inclined his head. "I, too, hope that trust, even friendship, can grow out of this. Whatever befalls, we must work together to destroy the three beings who dared to strike down so many of our blood. They have done it once, and could well come again . . . and what if they brought the Great Foe with them this tune, or an army of lesser mages?"
"You befriended them," Argast said, "seeking to learn their ways and secrets. Do you think they will seek to return?"
Amdramnar opened his mouth to reply, then sighed, shrugged, and shook his head. "I know not. Their deeds and words did not always strike a good match togetherand they were accompanied by some sort of vigilant sentience of greater sorcery than I command."
"Elminster, of course."
"No, I think not. A gentler, more neutral regard . . . less knowing, less . . . afire with humor, let us say. I touched this intelligence only fleetingly."
Argast lifted his own shoulders and let them fall. "As you say, you have had contact with this mysterious other, and I have not. It is not Elminster, then." He hesitated as they stepped together onto the .back of the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
flapping shadow they'd been waiting for. It bore them away into roiling dimness, and Argast added, "Please do not take my next query as anything more unfriendly than a desire to know if some future use can be made of it. You fancied the woman as a mate?"
Amdramnar regarded him expressionlessly. "I did, and do."
"Have you any knowledge of her feelings toward you?"
"She did not know what to make of me. I was not the menacing scaly thing she expectedbut she never relaxed, though she did trust me so far as to open herself to attack on several occasions ... at least once to see what I'd do, I am certain."
"And what would you do if you met her again?" "I do not know. I must learn more of her true powers, aims, and loyalties. At present I still desire her as a mate and as part of our house. Although the damage done by her weapon was . . . unprecedented, she was acting at first to defend herself even as you or I would against treachery from a fellow Malaugrym. That she and her companions came here to do us harm is, I think, likely. That they did not know us is certain, and so I must conclude that they came here on principle, or following the orders of another,"
"Elminster? If not the Great Foe, then who?" "That is one of the things we must learn." The shadow bore them into brighter and more tranquil surroundings, a placid blue pool wreathed in mists, and Amdramnar added, "Yet if the need arises, I would strike to slay her and her two companions without hesitation. The men must die in any case, for the honor of our house. If the woman proves less than I believe her to be, death can come to her whenever her usefulness in breeding the next generation of Shadowmasters is done."
He turned his head to regard Argast. "On the other hand, she is but one of many countless maids who walk
ED GREENWOOD
Faerun right now . . . and many of those, I'm given to understand, have a strong talent for sorcery."
"More suitable mates may await both of us?"
"And many of our fellows, perhaps. We shall see. Faerun awaits."
"So many riches . . . denied to us for so long."
"At the command of the Great Foe, rememberbolstered by craven Shadowmasters High who feared both his magic and the access all of us would have to things not under the control of the Shadow Throne."
"This is truth," Argast said softly. "Even I've seen more in the great scrying portal over the years than Dhalgrave intended, and I am one of those who pays little attention to intrigues and watching over other planes. It is no wonder some of our eldersMilhvar comes to mindspent much time and effort on covert expeditions into the realms of Faerun, seeking magic."
"And mates," Amdramnar said with the ghost of a smile, "if the rumors are true."
"He has offspring in Faerun?"
"Ignorant of their heritage, and perhaps weak in their shapeshifting, no doubt," Amdramnar replied, "but yesseveral, I believe."
Argast frowned. "Unknown offspring aside, how many of our kin walk Faerun right now?"
"Whoever survived battle with Sharantyr and her companions, when the sword took her back to Faerun. Ahorga, I have seen . . . and two others who took many shapes, but are possibly Atari and Yinthrim. There are others: two working together, and at least one more. I cannot believe all of these fled the battle; some of the kin must have seized upon the emptiness of the Shadow Throne to defy the standing decrees and make their own ways into Faerun."
"Bralatar and Lorgyn have both vanished from their chambers," Argast said quietly, "and have been absent for more than a dozen feastings."
"So," Amdramnar replied, one side of his face lifting
ALL SHADOWS FLED
into a smile, "let us do likewise, you and I. To Faerun, to take the shapes of others, and watch patiently, and learn before we move against these mortals. In the chaos ruling Faerun right now, we dare not rely on magic. Any foray there now will be very dangerous but what opportunities for hunting!"
"I feel its attraction more strongly as the years pass and we visit it not," Argast replied. "I begin to understand why so many of our elders defied the Great Foe even when they knew death awaited them."
"Shadowhome and the planes we can readily reach never felt limiting in any way before," Amdramnar said quietly. "Faerun seemed to be no more than some sort of fanciful land of beasts where the restless of our house went to play, and when careless got hurt there. But now. .."
"Let us prepare," Argast said, eyes shining. "I want to be in Faerun without delay!"
The shadow glided to the place it always did, and they stepped off it and went on up a dusty stair choked with the skeletal remains of dead and forgotten servants, into an undercrypt several stairs beneath the Hall of Griffons. There they parted, ascending into the castle proper by different ways so as not to be seen together by interested eyes.
The gigantic shadow that had been their steed drifted on to a place the two Malaugrym did not know. There it rose into a different form and called forth four spherical stones of winking blue fire to orbit one of its wrists endlessly.
"And so two more of the restless of our house go to play," it said in amused tones, "one at least formally welcoming the prospect! Interesting times in old Shadowhome, indeed!"
And as it chuckled, it did something else in the darkness, and vanished to other, deeper places. There were many locales in Shadowhome that neither Argast nor Amdramnar had ever visited, or known about. That
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
lack of knowledge, though, didn't seem likely to prove fatal to either of them. Yet.
*****
Faerun, Shadowdale, Flamerule 18
The serene radiance of Selune fell upon ravaged Shadowdale as it did on all the rest of Faerun this night. Bright moonlight gleamed on both the armor of weary dale sentries and the bloodied gear of the dead. There was no sound but the howling of wolves and the bawling of cattle whose dead masters would never return to milk them. The two women who stood in a lonely place of scorched stones were as silent as the night breezes.
One was the Bard of Shadowdale, Storm Silverhand, her face grim and smudged with dirt and old, dried blood that was not her own. She still wore her armor, and leaned on a sword that had seen much use this day. Had she not recently drunk of a certain well-hidden decanter in her kitchen, she would be trembling with weariness now.
The other woman had no body left to tireshe was a thing of ghostly radiance, a softly curved bright shadow in the night. She floated upright above the stones of her long-burned hut, face lifted to the stars, and began an invocation to Mystra more ancient than she was . . . and that was old indeed. No one disturbed them, or came near; such doings at the ruined hut were why the folk of the dale still called her the Witch of Shadowdale, and shunned this place.
"Great Lady of Mysteries, hear me," the ghostly lady said into the night, picturing the dark, star-filled eyes of the goddess. "Your servant Sylune entreats."
She and Storm both knew well that Mystra was no more, but perhaps the one who had taken her place would hear... or steadfast Azuth, the Hand of Sorcery.
Her call fell into silence, and she stood there in the moonlight feeling more lonely than she had for years. "Mystra, hear me," she said at last. "Azuth, hear me."
From out of the darkness of vast distances, a voice echoed. A voice she knew. "Azuth hears, little sister."
"Lord of Spellcraft," Sylun6 breathed, almost shuddering in relief, "does Elminster live?"
There came a twinkling of lights in the air above her, soft green and blue radiances that sparkled as they spun slowly about each other. From out of the heart of this occurrence came the deep, confident voice of the god Azuth. "I did not feel him pass . . . but I cannot feel his mind now, either. Much is in chaos; I cannot be sure of his fate."
"I stand in Shadowdale," Sylune told him. "We have resisted the work of Bane here thus far, at great cost."
"Aye, great cost, indeed. Mystra returned to us, and was lost again forever. She and Elminster fought Bane for possession of a Celestial Stair"
Sylun6 closed her eyes in despair, but forced herself to say on. "I need your guidance, High One. We face another peril: shapeshifters who call themselves Malau-grym, who came into Faerun when the Sword of Mystra brought three heroes back to us, three who went to the shadow realm of the shapeshifters to do Our Lady's work. They are loose in the land, working mischief."
The great voice seemed to hold a tone of bitter amusement. "These days, it seems half the multiverse is loose in Faerun, working mischief. . . one Azuth among them. My powers are twisted and lessened. 'Tis all I can do to hold the Realms together, with all the irresponsible spell-hurlers active. Red Wizards, Calishite lords, Zhentarim, and near a thousand ambitious lone wizards whose magic is mighty. Gods and mortals alike are trying to take advantage of the widespread chaos. And without Mystra, magic is truly unreliable. I work constantly to keep the fabric of all from being torn utterly by these ignorant wielders of Art so that Toril will
ED GREENWOOD
not be dashed apart in utter destruction. You have my sympathy, Sister, and my regrets . . . but you must contend with the House of Malaug on your own; I dare not intervene. Gather your allies, and work as you have never worked before. 'Tis time to truly be heroes."
Sylune stood motionless. "May you succeed in your task," she said softly.
"And may you find the good fortune Our Lady Mystra could not," the god replied, "and prevail. Know that I love you, Sylune, and would aid if I could. Look not to seek divine aid again until this Time of Troubles is past." And the small storm of twinkling lights melted silently away, leaving the night sky above the stones empty.
The ghostly figure of the Witch of Shadowdale stared up at the empty air where Azuth had manifested, then turned toward her sister Storm and reached out.
"Take me away from here," she pleaded, her voice on the edge of tears. "Take me back to your kitchen, and the fire, and your arms."
"Of course," Storm said quietly. She bent to take up the stone Belkram had surrendered, and Sylune saw that her face was wet with tears.
They walked south and then east together, taking a long route around the heart of the moonlit dale to avoid challenges and the worst of the dead.
"You heard all?" Sylune asked grimly.
Storm sighed. "Aye, this dale is going to be very different if Elminster is no more."
"He was a fatherand a friendto you more than any of us," Sylune said softly. " 'Tis I should be comforting you."
Storm shook her head wearily, as if to clear it. "I did not feel him die. I can't be sure ... he may still live."
"And if he does not?"
"Then it is as Azuth told us: time for usall of us Sevento truly be heroes, without his comforting aid and guidance . . . and vigilance for our safety."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Sylune sighed. "I never thought I'd be alive without him to turn to. He seems as permanent a feature of the Realms as Mount Waterdeep, or Anauroch, or the Shaar." They climbed a stile and descended into a field of parsnips. Halfway down one of its long rows, she added, "Sharantyr is beside herself! I thought she'd tear the two prisoners apart with her bare hands."
"She gave her blade to Mourngrym because she feared she'd want to use it," Storm said softly. "My own fury is past. El told me how tired of life he'd become more than once this last season."
"Should we let those two go?"
"Mercy has ever been our watchword here, and yet..."
Storm's voice trailed away, and with slow deliberation she sheathed the blade she held. "I may come to feel the rage Sharantyr holds again, tomorrow. Since Doust became lord, we have always shown the people that justice by fair trial holds sway in Shadowdale. So we will have a trial and justice, and Mourngrym will have the hard task of sentencing."
She was silent for a long time before she added in a whisper, "I am glad of that, because I don't feel like holding trials at all... I want to go out and kill things."
"Your sword arm?" Sharantyr asked, watching Itharr wince and reach for his shoulder.
He nodded. "I've worn it out these last two days."
"And seen enough death to last several lifetimes," Belkram added quietly, handing him a goblet. Itharr took it in his good hand and hastily sipped at it to prevent a spill.
Sharantyr dug her fingers into the muscles of his shoulder, and he shuddered uncontrollably. He handed the goblet back to Belkram hastily.
"Thanks . . . I'll want the rest of it when this long-
ED GREENWOOD
taloned beast here stops tearing my shoulder apart!"
Sharantyr managed a playful snarl, but then fell silent again, her face sad. She shook her head when Belkram offered the decanter to her, and asked him, "When will you get Sylune back?"
"In the morning, Storm said." Belkram poured himself a goblet and drained most of it at one gulp. "I imagine they're meeting to talk about what they must do to defend the dale now that Elminster's gone."
"That's a meeting we must have, too," Itharr said, looking up. "Whither now, for the three of us?"
"What have we to jaw about," Sharantyr asked with sudden fierceness as her fingers worked on his stiff shoulders with iron tenderness, "until we've dealt with the Malaugrym? Elminster gave us a task, and it's unfinished. Harpersand Knights of Myth Drannor don't walk away from their duty. Not now, not ever!"
When she caught Belkram's look of wonder, she blushed, turning her head away. "I'm sorry," Shar mumbled, her voice quavering for an instant. "I... his dying . . . I'm too upset to make sense."
"No, Lady," Belkram said, advancing to take one of her hands in his own. He knelt and kissed it in one smooth movement. "You make perfect sensenow, and always."
Sharantyr turned her head away again from the rising fire she saw in his eyes, and tried to blink away her sudden tears, tears that would not stop falling.
Uncaring crickets were chirping as the Bard of Shadowdale turned in at her arched gate. She brushed past its roses and stumbled in her weariness. Sylune drifted with silent grace at her shoulder.
The door ahead of them was open, and the lamps were lit. Storm sighed and reached for her blade again, wondering if she really felt up to another fight against
ALL SHADOWS FLED
some sinister Zhent intruder . . . then relaxed with a heavy sigh of relief when she saw the short and familiar figure of Lhaeo come out to greet them.
"Tea is made, Ladies," Elminster's scribe said in a small, forlorn voice.
"Oh, Lhaeo," Storm said, touched, and held out her arms to him.
A moment later, the last prince of Tethyr was weeping into her breast, clutching her as if she were his last anchor in a storm-racked sea. "El told me I'd know if he died," he gasped when he could speak again, "and yet I don't know! The touch of his mind is gone!" He burst into fresh tears, weeping uncontrollably.
Storm stood in the moonlight, holding him in silence. There was nothing she could say. Her silver hair bent over him as her own tears began to fall. They wept together, and the ghostly form of Sylune hovered over them both, her spectral hands reaching out to console ... in vain.
There was nothing at all she could do.
11
There's Alcuays Reoeuge
It was a bright morning in fair Shadowdale. The tower, the inn, and the streets were still buzzing with talk of the disappearance, a day and a night ago, of Adon and Midnight, the two prisoners convicted of the murder of Elminster of Shadowdale. Some said they'd been spirited away by agents of Zhentil Keep, lurking in the dale even now; others that they were archmages, foul fiends, or Bane and Manshoon themselves, who wore false shapes and escaped by magic as soon as they were bound in the dungeons. Shadowdale had lost its greatest protector, a wise old unclealbeit a cantankerous and mischievous uncleto just about everyone who'd lived in Shadowdale.
Nor was he the only man mourned in the dale. Many a family wept over sons or fathers who would come back only on a shield, to be buried by an honor guard led by the grim-faced lord of Shadowdale. No one could spare the time for full mourning rites or long nights of grieving, however; there was too much that had to be done.
Magic still spun wild in Faerun, and news of strife and god-caused devastation came to Shadowdale with every new, heavily armed caravan. The Zhentarim could strike again at any time, and Daggerdale was an open battlefield roamed by hungry wolves, ores, and worse. To keep such perils at bay, the few warriors still
ALL SHADOWS FLED
able to fight were standing guard on all four roads out of the dale, fervently hoping not to see blackhelms in the distance.
In the dale, dead Zhents and horses lay everywhere, some half devoured by bold night scavengers. The returned priests of Lathander were busily blessing the dead to ensure that they would not rise undead to stalk Shadowdale in the years to come. The old women of the dale were stripping the bodies of anything that could be used again, and the foresters surveyed the burnt woods with an eye to replanting.
Yestereve, six full carts piled high with weapons and helms had groaned up the road to the tower. The clangor of their being stockpiled had gone on all night, wherefore this morning Lord Mourngrym had a headache that felt as if someone were repeatedly stabbing a dagger through the top of his head.
"Why must I get up?" he asked Shaerl. "I'm lord of this dale. Can't I lie abed just once in a year?"
"You did," she replied sweetly, "three months back. We were trying for a daughter, remember?"
Mourngrym growled something wordless about her cheerfulness and rolled up to a sitting position on the edge of their bed. His arms and ribs were gold and purple with bruises, and two raw scars marked his forearm where Zhent blades had split through his best armor.
Shaerl hissed in sympathy as she traced one of those scars with a slim finger. She handed her lord a tankard of steaming bitterroot tea.
Mourngrym sipped it, made the same disgusted face he always did, and rose, handing the tankard back to her. "Hereyou drink the stuff. It should cure your confounded cheerfulness!"
He took from its peg the silken robe she'd made for him. As always, he admired the blazons she'd sewn so carefully. The arms of the dale shone on one breast, his own arms on the other, and a target prominently on the backtheir private joke: he'd been her target when
ED GREENWOOD
Cormyr sent her to Shadowdale to gain influence here.
Mourngrym smiled at the robe in his arms, leaned against the smooth-carved corner post of the bed, and mouthed a silent prayer to Tymora. Swinging the robe around his shoulders, he made his way across the bedchamber.
He winced as each step made his head poundhe hadn't had that much to drink last night, surelybut doggedly pursued his goal: the curtained archway that led into the morning room. There he would break his fast on the great table whose glass top covered gloriously hued maps of the dales. He loved those maps, a wedding gift from the Rowanmantles, and peering at their exquisite details never failed to cheer him.
He shouldered through the curtains, sniffing the welcome aroma of sausages and melted cheese and eggs on bread, and froze midstride.
"Storm! Well met and welcome, but what are you doing sitting in the middle of the table?Oh, war council time again, is it?"
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled at him and tossed her head in greeting; her silver hair cascaded down one shoulder, and Mourngrym swallowed at her beauty, remembering the last time she'd sat on the table, wearing rather less, and the wild war council that had followed then. It was too early in the morning for all this... .
Eyeing the sausages on the platter beside Storm's boots, the lord of Shadowdale went to the long sideboard, took up a flask of firewine, and drained it at a single gulp.
When his eyes came back into focus, Storm was shaking her head. "You'll regret that, you know."
"My head already feels like a blacksmith's anvil," Mourngrym told her. "Is there any more of this stuff about, do you know?"
"End drawer down the window end," Storm and Shaerl said together, then broke into chuckles (Storm) and giggles (Shaerl) of mirth. Mourngrym gave them
ALL SHADOWS FLED
both a look of long-suffering disgust and went to the drawer indicated.
"It's too much," he told the Realms at large. "No man should have to deal with such cheery females. Haven't either of you heard of respectful silence?"
There was no reply. Mourngrym had taken the decanter back to the table, sipped from it without bothering with a flagon, and lifted his fork to deal with the sausages before the silence registered. He looked up into Storm's impish eyes, dancing with mirth as she regarded him, lips pressed tightly together. He shot a look along the table to Shaerl, who had seated herself with dignity and was regarding him, chin on hand, in equally amused silence.
Mourngrym opened his mouth to say something, but closed it again and shrugged. "That's certainly more peaceful," he told the first sausage as he raised it.
"Unhand that sausage!" a voice bellowed from somewhere very near.
Mourngrym choked, tried to spring up, arms flailing, and toppled sideways, gabbling for breath.
He and the chair met the flagstone floor with a solid, head-ringing crash amid an explosion of laughter. Mourngrym found himself then face to face with Rathan Thentraver.
The stout priest was crawling out from under the table. He winked, deftly plucked the sausage off Mourngrym's fork, bit into it, and said, "Umm. Very good! Thank you for offering me this excellent viand!"
"I am going to kill someone," Mourngrym announced calmly to the ceiling, "and probably soon. How long have you been under here?"
"Not long," Rathan rumbled cheerfully. He emerged. "How long do you plan to sleep in every morning? Not turning into a vampire, are you?"
"No," Mourngrym told him shortly, and rolled to his feet. "No fangs to you."
"Ah," Storm said, "that's better. I was afraid you were
163
ED GREENWOOD
going to play the grim stone-headed tyrant all day." As she spoke, the wall gong chimed.
Mourngrym looked at it sourly and sat down again. "And what does that signify?"
" "Tis the signal that you've finished your morning feast, my lord," Shaerl said sweetly, "and that yet another Realms-shaking war council is about to begin."
"But I haven't fin" Mourngrym began. He snatched his platter to his chest just before Storm plucked it away. He brandished his fork at her. "Keep back, woman!"
There was laughter from the doorway. Belkram and Itharr of the Harpers stood there, staring delightedly into the room. "Now that's a sight worth walking here from Berdusk to see! We battle the Bard of Shadowdale with blades . . . but great lords use sausage forks on her!"
Mourngrym sighed, backed away to the sideboard, and set his plate down. Picking up a sausage, he pointed at the chairs ranged around the table and said, Tray enter, Lords, Ladies, and Gentles, and be seated. There, there, and there .. . ah, and I believe that seat's available too . . . very good." He glanced at the gathering: Knights, Storm, a swirling radiance by her shoulder that must be Sylune, the two Harper rangers, Shaerl, andwho was missing?
Elminster, of course, and Lhaeo . . . not surprising. He bit into the sausage thoughtfully. Ah!
"This room's too quiet by far," he announced grandly. "Where's Term?"
"I thought you'd never ask," the smooth voice of the thief replied from the doorway. "While you've been snoring, I've been working. Pretty soft being lord of a dale, isn't it?"
"You?" Mourngrym snorted, making a rude gesture with what was left of his sausage. "Working?"
"Indeed," Torm replied with dignity, "I have just returned from a dawn foraya bold and brazen foray, let
ALL SHADOWS FLED
me say, fraught with peril and shining braveryinto the road camp just south of Voonlar, looking for certain things our departed Zhentish friends may have left behind!"
"More women?" Merith asked slyly. "Torm, how many can one man have?"
"The answer, Sir Elf, would surprise you," Torm said loftily, "but that is a matter for converse at some more relaxed time. I speak of the Central Blade's pack train . .. sixteen wagons of it, at any rate."
"Thieving still?" Shaerl sighed. "Torm, in case you haven't noticed, there's a war on! Must you indulge in petty thievery?"
Term's eyebrows rose. " 'Petty thievery,' Lady? You wound me to the quick! What did you think your surviving troops would eat? And be paid with? Starving men"a dagger spun from his hand to transfix one of Mourngrym's sausages, and the thief jerked on the silken cord affixed to the hilt and snatched the food away from Mourngrym's hasty grab"who feel they've been cheated tend to make unsafe guardians, particularly when they're also well-trained warriors."
"Belt up, well-trained warrior," Florin suggested kindly as Torm reeled in a dusty sausage and bit into it with satisfaction. The ranger looked around the table to address them. "We're here to talk some things out and decide how best to proceed, given the perils abroad in the land and . .. our lack of Elminster." In the silence that followed, he added, "In the absence of the Old Mage, Sylune is the eldest here, and should speak first."
"My thanks, FlorinI think," the ghostly Witch of Shadowdale said dryly. "For my part, I have unfinished business Elminster set me to. Sister, will you hand my stone to Itharr of the Harpers? He is the only one of our Rangers Three who hasn't borne me yet."
"I will," Storm said gravely, drawing the chain from her neck and rising to carry the stone around the table.
"The Rangers Three? Sounds like a chartered adventuring band," Torm commented. Itharr took the stone
ED GREENWOOD
carefully, a little awed. The thief added, "Or a traveling minstrel show."
Torm, dearest," Sharantyr said sweetly, "Tell me: do these idiocies just tumble out whenever you open your mouthor do you actually sit there and think them up?"
"Thinking?" Torm frowned at her. "Who said anything about thinking? Kill first, then loot . . . and the thinking part is that unpleasant shouting business at the end when it all has to be divided. It makes brains hurt."
"Mine certainly does," Mourngrym said with feeling, "but I believe Sylune still has the high tongue in this round of converse."
"For my part," Sylune responded, "there is no more to say. I am a thing of ghosts and shadows. My will is bound to duty."
Tes, but what would you like to do?"
"Find my sister the Simbul and beseech her to do as Elminster did," the Witch of Shadowdale said very quietly. "That is, make me a new body."
There was an embarrassed silence at the raw longing in her voice. Florin stepped into it by saying, "Next senior among us is my lady, Dove. What say you?"
Dove smiled at him and looked around the table. "My first dutyour first dutymust be to defend the folk of the Dales against brigands, Zhents, roving monsters, and the like. Otherwise, there'll be no crops, and starvation come winter. Time of Troubles or no, the work of daily life must go on. We have to find all the Zhents scrambling around the woods and deal with them, discover who or what else is lurking about to prey on our people, find and tend all the wounded, and rebuild what was ruined in the fighting."
"Well, that takes care of the council," Torm said lightly. "Let's be getting on with it. Mourngrym can make us all more sausagesI'm certainly hungry enoughand we can meet again when the snows fall."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Rathan? Gag him, will you?" Illistyl snapped scornfully. "To think that I once bedded thatr
"Once? From what I recall, twi"
"Enough, Torm," Dove said firmly, "or have you forgotten the fish bucket?"
"The fish bucket?" Mourngrym asked, leaning forward with interest. "Is this some sort of torture device fine upstanding noble lords can use on annoying thieves?"
"After he made a particularly crude remark," Jhessail explained, "Dove held Torm's head under water in the bucket of live fish she was bringing to the tower for evenfeast.. . until he ran out of bubbles."
"Ah, that explains what happened to his wits," Merith said delightedly. "They got soaked through and grew mildew. . . ."
"Gods in their palaces," Belkram said to Itharr in low tones, "are all their council meetings like this?"
"Oh, no, no," Storm assured him cheerfully. "Best manners this morn . . . because of you. Usually we just shout Torm down and get on, and no one speaks in turn."
"Strange you should mention that," Florin said with a smile, "as seniority brings us now to you."
"Aye, indeed," Storm said with a smile. "I concur with my sister Dove, but be aware that aside from Shar, Sylune, and my two Harpers here"Belkram and Itharr smiled around the table and swept mock bows"this assembly is just going to have to abandon chasing Malaugrym for the time being."
"Malaugrym?"
"The shapeshifters who attacked us in the tent, the night before the battle in Mistledale," Sharantyr explained.
"Those weren't doppelgangers?"
"No, something far worse."
"Oh . . . one of Mourngrym's speeches?"
"Stow it," Florin ordered with a grin and a sigh.
167
ED GREENWOOD
"Because some among us can't resist the urges to be clever, these little get-togethers are always so much fun."
"Hold hard," Shaerl said, leaning over the table with a frown. "Do I hear you rightly? Chasing Malaugrym? Are there a band of them?"
"A family, actually," Storm explained softly. "An ancient clan who kill those who know about themso guard your lips. For centuries Elminster has slain any of them who dared to enter the Realms."
"So with him gone . .."
"Chasing may no longer be necessary. They'll probably find us soon enough," Sharantyr observed.
"Is there any wayshort of magic that may go wild, and blow this tower apart, or cover us all in cow dung of knowing they're not here in this room, right now, taking the shape of one of us?" Torm asked sharply.
"No," Storm and Dove said in quiet unison.
"Well," Rathan joked, "You did come in late, Torm.. . ."
"Oh, no, you don't," Torm said warningly. "No one's opening me up to see if I'm really a scaly monster!" There was suddenly a dagger in his fingertips, and he waved it meaningfully.
"You're safe, Torm," Jhessail said with a smile. "No one could impersonate that debonair manner, that outrageous tongue, that"
"Utter stupidity," fllistyl told the ceiling.
"As to the internal defense of the dale, and helping our folk set things to rights," Storm added, "journeyman Harpers will shortly gather in Shadowdale from all directions. To prevent the Zhents and... others from sneaking agents in among them, they all will report to Dove, who will cast a spell that marks them with a visible badge, a spell that contains nasty surprises for anyone trying to duplicate it. To get such a badge, of course, the Harpers will submit to mind-reading magic, allowing us to weed out ambitious Malaugrym."
1(58
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"So this band of confirmed Harpers helps rebuild the dale," Torm said, "freeing us to dowhat?"
"Ride patrol through the Elven Court woods, southeastern Daggerdale, and the other lands around Shadow-dale, scouring it of brigands and monsters, giving us warning of attack from Zhentil Keep, Daggerdale, or Hillsfar. I've heard rumors of fell beasts leaving the ruins of Myth Drannor to roam the woods, and even talk of some wealthy merchants in Sembia hiring small armies in hopes of seizing a dale or two as private estates."
"What?" Torm laughed. "Armies, yes . . . but ambitious Sembian merchants? Show me the fool who'd dare challenge the famous Knights of Myth Drannor!"
"Look in yon mirror," Jhessail advised him in dry tones, pointing across the morning room. "You challenge us all too often."
"Vile slander!" Torm said severely, waving a finger at her. "May the gods look down and"
"Gift thee with an egg, valiant Torm," Shaerl said. She swept a peppered plover egg up from Mourngrym's plate and thrust it whole into Torm's mouth.
"NnnmumpA," he protested.
"I agree completely," Rathan replied earnestly, patting the thief's hand (the one without the dagger). "Thy every word is as a pearl of wisdom, glistening among the dull pebbles of other oratory!"
"Oh, please" Illistyl said. "You're as bad as he is!"
Rathan gave her a hard look. "I prefer to say "as good as,' young miss'tis more charitable, far."
"If the free entertainment could subside for a moment," Merith said patiently, "perhaps we can hear the rest of Storm's plans."
Storm grinned at him. "We'll send two patrols equipped for long forays. The Knights will ride to Daggerdale; the Rangers Three with Sylune will circle Voonlar, the woods near Myth Drannor, and Mistledale. Both bands should make sure the Zhents haven't rallied anyone else in the south and deal with any trouble
ED GREENWOOD
before it reaches our battle-riven dale. The dalefolk are too exhausted to deal with even sneak thieves."
"Fine, sounds sensible. Let's be doing it," Illisty! said, rising from the table. "I weary of talk. Merith, have you found me a horse?"
"What's wrong with your palfrey?" Mourngrym asked.
"Killed in the battle," Storm informed him curtly. Illistyl nodded, her eyes bright with sudden tears, but said nothing.
Across the table, Torm was in full flight again, leaning around Belkram to smile at Sharantyr.
"Good, my lady," the thief said with a leer, his eyes bright, "I could see my way clear to ably guard so beautiful a flower of the dale! Wouldst thou permit me to accompany thee on patrol?"
Sharantyr almost smiled. "I've grown used to Belkram and Itharr, thanks," she said crisply, taking the arms of the two Harper rangers seated on either side of her.
"I did not mean merely myself, Lady," Torm said, his manner suddenly serious. "Three blades and a disembodied voice isn't enough battle might for what you might well run into."
"Ill be going with them, Torm," Storm said quietly.
Heads turned in surprise all around the table, but the Bard of Shadowdale was looking at the three rangers. "If you'll have me?" she asked quietly.
"Right gladly, Lady," Belkram said, glancing quickly at his companions for confirmation, and receiving it.
A frown had come onto Mourngrym's face, "Torm may have a point about strength of arms. I was thinking of sending you Knights out on the first patrol east; there's word of a Zhent mageling rallying forty or more Zhen-tilar in the woods."
"I'll look forward to meeting them," Storm said in silken tones. More than one person around that council table shivered at the sound of the bard's voice.
170
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Are we agreed?" Mourngrym asked, standing up and looking down the table. There was a general affirmative chorus, and he said briskly, "Goodnow get gone, all of you, so I can bathe and get dressed and have some fooxi that clever Knights don't snatch off my plate!"
Chuckles and mocking salutes answered him.
Mourngrym made for his bedchamber, shook his head, and reflectednot for the first timehow untenable a position he held, the junior member of a band of adventurers who handed him the lordship of a dale after they were finished with it, but stayed around to drive him witless!
Growling faintly at the thought, he pushed back through the curtains, Shaerl in his wake.
The morning room cleared quickly. When it was quite empty, something moved under the tablesomething that looked like old and dark wood, but flowed downward to the floor, peeling itself free of the table's underside. It stretched like a hungry snake, slithered out from under the furniture, and rose swiftly, taking on the shape and appearance of one of the tower servants.
The Malaugrym glanced quickly around, but no one was in sight. The servant who was not a servant paused for a long moment to survey the table admiringly. Ahorga had always liked maps.
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 22
The embers crackled and glowed ruby red. The two women sat with their backs to it, facing outward on watch, listening to the faint scuttlings and hootings that mark any forest by night. They were in the Elven Court woods, well south of Voonlar, most of the way through their first night on patrol.
Itharr and Belkram had turned over watch duties to them not long ago, and were well and truly asleep,
* 171 *
ED GREENWOOD
snoring faintly into their cloaks.
"How many nights have you spent thus?" Sharantyr asked quietly.
Behind her, Storm laughed softly. "Hundreds."
The ghostly tresses of Sylune turned, from where her disembodied head floated at Sharantyr's shoulder. "Thousands, Sister," she corrected.
"That's rightemphasize how old we are," Storm said, amused. "I try not to make people feel uncomfortable or lessened in any way."
"I was the Witch of Shadowdale, remember? Making people wary of me was the best way to hold power over them without ever harming anyone," Sylune replied.
Sharantyr sighed. "You seem so carefree," she said, shifting the naked long sword that lay across her thighs so that moonlight caught it at one end, and a faint red glow from the fire touched the other. She flicked it idly, watching the play of light on the steel. "Is it because you've both seen it all before?"
"Partly, Shar," Storm replied, "and partly because we've learned to try to enjoy everything, from being whipped in chains as a slave to being wooed by well-endowed princes."
"To clinging to the spar of a ship breaking apart in a storm," Sylune put in, sounding amused. "To lying paralyzed under the probes of a drow mage trying to determine if your powers lie in organs he can remove, or if youll have to be bred to drow to give them your abilities."
Sharantyr shivered. "Don't speak of drow, please ..."
"My apologies, Shar," the ghostly head beside her said quickly. "We both spoke of moments from our own experiencesI forgot that you'd been a captive of the drow, too."
Sharantyr turned her head. "You were a slave?"
"For years," the Bard of Shadowdale told her. "Not entirely bad years, either . . . though I never did develop any enjoyment for being whipped."
"What do you mean, 'not entirely bad years'?" Shar
172
ALL SHADOWS FLED
asked incredulously. "How can you enjoy anything about being a slave?"
"That's what we were trying to say, you see," Sylune said softly. "It's not what the gods hand you in life that matters so much, nor what your strivings achieve or fail in the attempt. Whatever befalls, the best way to view life is to savor every moment of it, no matter how sordid or unpleasant... for one thing, the gods give us all only a certain span of time, and time wastedin misery, despair, drunkenness, or casual inattentionis time gone forever."
"I see what you're saying," Sharantyr said slowly, "but you'll forgive me if I take some time getting to enjoy fighting in great battles, or falling into cesspits, or listening to Torm."
Trying not to laugh aloud, Storm shook with deep, bubbling laughter for a long time before she found breath enough to speak again. "Well said," were her first words. "Do you feel like talking about what befell in the Castle of Shadows?"
Shar chuckled helplessly. "I-I suppose so. What do you want to know?"
"Do you recall Elminster's burning the bodies of the Malaugrym you slew, back at the ruined manor in Daggerdale?" Sylune asked.
Shar nodded, but realized they couldn't see the gesture in the dark, and said cautiously, "Yes."
"He wasn't simply being tidy," the ghostly figure told her. "He was using a spell that destroys the bodies of the recently dead even as it yields up their last few moments of thought. In one of the Malaugrym was a strong desire to slay youbecause another Malaugrym, who did not enter Faerun at the time, wanted you as his mate. Another of the dead Malaugrym was reluctant to attack you for the same reason; the Malaugrym who favored you was his ally."
Sharantyr drew a deep, shuddering breath. "I see. You're wondering if I pine after some Malaugrym lord,
173
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
or perhaps even carry a little shapeshifter-to-be within."
"No," Storm said sharply. "Even if either or both of those conditions were true, they are your affairs. We merely meant that it's apparent to us all that some adventures befell all three of you that went beyond 'See Malaugrym, slay Malaugrym, run run run/ "
Shar giggled. "That sounds elegant."
"Indeed," Sylune agreed dryly. "So give, Lady Shar-antyr. What did you learn in the Castle of Shadows? And I don't mean about Malaugrym, or shapeshifting, or the nature of ever-shifting Shadowhome. I mean about yourself."
"About myself?"
"About Belkram and Itharr, then," Storm said gently. "How are my two half-trained Harpers?"
"Very good companions and able protectors. Belkram has a touch of Torm in him, I think."
Shar heard Storm's silent amusement at that observation, and went on, "Itharr is quieter, and there's a darkness in him. H-He needs to kill, sometimes."
"And how would you look upon spending several years adventuring with them both?" the lady bard asked. "Just the three of you, not a part of the Harpers or part of the Knights of Myth Drannor."
"I'd enjoy it, I hope," Shar replied, then added quickly, "but I fear the Shadowmasters will soon strike back, and"
"And?" Sylune asked quietly.
"And I'll lose one or both of them," Sharantyr said. Her voice sank almost to a whisper.
"You are fond of them both, then?" Storm asked quietly.
"Aye, I" Sharantyr's voice sharpened. "Why are you asking me this? Do you want me to shout from the tower turrets that I love them?"
"No, Shar," Sylune said softly. "We want you to admit it to yourself."
In the little silence that followed, Belkram snorted
174
softly in his sleep, and at the comical sound something inside Sharantyr suddenly rose into her throat, and she wept as quietly as she could.
The radiance of Sylune was suddenly all around her, and she felt a gentle, chill touch on her forehead. The ghostly kiss left a tingling behind, and her somehow calmer.
She sniffed away the last of her tears, and said in a small voice, "I'm so afraid of losing them."
That's why I came along," Storm said softly, "to lend one more sword to the fray and make all of your chances for survival that much better."
"Malaugrym are everywhere!" Sylune intoned in tones of mock horror.
"Don't say that!" Sharantyr told her fiercely, turning her head to stare into eyes that were two serene white wraith fires.
"Why not? Face your fears as you should face everything else in lifeopenly. Name them, and they become things you can handle, after a fashion."
Sharantyr laughed, a little ruefully. "I didn't expect to spend my time staring into the night talking about my loves and fears," she told the two age-old sisters.
"Why not, Shar? What could we possibly talk about in all our livesthat's more important than what we love and fear?"
Sembia, Flamerule 22
"I love to smell their fear," the man with the head of a panther said, raising bloody jaws from a villager who would never again flee screaming from anything.
"Now how could I tell that?" replied the man whose arms split into tentacles. A choking merchant struggled in the coils of two of those tentacles.
The Malaugrym shook the merchant, much as a
JL
ED GREENWOOD
hunting cat shakes a rat in its jaws, and tightened his tentacles with lazy strength, tearing the man's head off. Blood sprayed in all directions as the corpse convulsed, wriggling in its final agony.
"Well? Are you going to eat this one?" Bralatar asked, his hands lengthening into talons to tear the man's body apart. He licked his lips in anticipation of the feast.
Lorgyn took one bite, then tossed the headless body aside. "No. I'll find something a little more succulent," He looked across the night-shrouded garden where they stood, at a building whose distinctive red lanterns marked it as a brothel. "In there."
"No wonder old Elminster wanted Faerun for himself!" Bralatar said, watching his comrade reach up with a small forest of tentacles and swarm up the side of the building. "It's a neverending love-feast and brawl!"
"Aye," Lorgyn called down, heedless of whose attention they might alert, "only better!"
A man's head suddenly appeared out of one window. "Hoy!" he snarled, "what'redoppelgangers! Call the Watc*
A tentacle descended in a slap that carried the weight of falling stone, breaking the man's neck as a child snaps a twig. He fell onto the sill, and said no more.
The Malaugrym's tentacles were busy at a higher window. He reached in to a bed where a fat merchant was rolling among slippery silk sheets, pretending he couldn't find the giggling owner of the bed, wriggling around beneath them.
"Not here!" the merchant hollered, clutching at a pillow. "Where's she gone? Oh, sweet merciful gods, help me . . . my partner'll be furious when he learns how much I spent for an hour of pleasure, and then couldn't find the wench for the size and opulence of her bed! Are there other men lost under here, I wonder? That wagon of mine that went missing last moon, perhaps? I'll just
176
ALL SHADOWS FLED
have to see! May"
"Oh, be silentr Lorgyn snarled in exasperation, snapping out a tentacle to wrap around the man's jaws.
The fat merchant suddenly grew a mouth as wide as a horse and caught the tentacle; an extra mouth appeared in his forehead and hissed, "Get your own plaything!"
Lorgyn recoiled in amazement. "Who?"
The grotesque mouth spat the tentacle back at Lorgyn and shrank away to nothingness, dwindling into features the Malaugrym at the window recognized. "Lunquar!"
"The same," the older Shadowmaster replied, ignoring the sudden terrified scream from the bedclothes beneath him. He pinned the woman down without sparing her a glance, and said, "I've been watching you two break necks and hurl bodies about for days now; why such a bold rampage?"
"Fun, Lunquar, fun!" Lorgyn said exultantly, using one long tentacle to snatch up the man whose neck he'd just broken and shake him as a trophy. "See?" There was a scream from the window below.
"That's just what I mean," the Shadowmaster on the bed said. "You left that one dangling half out of a window! Hear the screaming now!"
"So?"
"So why rouse half of Faerun when a little subtlety could win you thrones?"
"What fun is that?" the voice of Bralatar came floating up to them. "You can rule just as well through fear ... in fact, whenever we've the time to spare, we should spread a little more fear!"
"Your style, perhaps; not mine," the older Shadow-master replied. "I'm saving my fury for when I meet up with one of Mystra's Chosen!"
"Aye," Lorgyn agreed, his voice menacingly soft. His eyes glowed a sudden emerald green in the gloom. "If you want reasons for rampaging, there's always ... revenge."
177
Whistling, the WizoRd Mef His End
Sembia, Flamemle 23
Birds called and fluttered in a wood where moss grew green on old, proud trees, untouched by a woodsman's axe for three hundred years. A stone wall as high as six men kept errant axes out, for the wood was part of a private estate in the fair uplands of Sembiaan estate that saw few visitors, and even fewer uninvited ones.
Yet one can never be too careful, and trolls may lurk anywhere. So it was that the war dogs Warhorn and Bolder wandered the grounds diligently, carrying two hundred pounds of taut muscle each behind their spiked war collars. Their jaws closed often on squirrels, and they suffered nothing larger than that to liveexcept men they knew.
No man they knew smelled quite like the peculiar odor now in Warhorn's nostrils. The mighty war dog growled a deep warning to Bolder and advanced cautiously toward the smell, questing from side to side like a soldier.
Bolder caught up to him, stiffened, and rubbed his flank alongside Warhorn to signify he'd smelled the scent, too. They went forward soundlessly together on
Aix SHADOWS FLRU
stiff, alert legs, lips drawn back to bare huge teeth.
The smell grew strong indeed, prickling in their throats. Of a sudden, they broke apart and rushed around either side of a great shadowtop tree, a forest giant big enough to hide four dogs behind. They went with eyes aflame and jaws agape, feet scrabbling on the mossy turfand vanished.
All that the listening birds heard was two wet snapping sounds, then a brief thudding, and shortly afterward, a rustling of leaves as something large climbed the forest giant.
"Never fear, never fear,
For my smiles are all for thee."
A man in a bloodied apron sang ere he struck the brass gong that hung by the door.
"So come away, lady fair, And we will married be!"
He set down the metal basin of meat scraps, wiped his hands on his hips, and waitedbut the expected hungry canines did not come.
The man struck the gong again. "Warhorn? Bolder? Gone deaf, have ye?"
The words had just left his lips when the two war dogs raced into view, running hard . . . and yet without their usual fluid grace . . . almost as if they weren't used to loping. The man stared hard at them for a moment. He crouched down and asked merrily, "So what have ye been into, my hearties? Highsummer mushrooms again?"
He leaned forward to pat Warhorn, and barely had time to notice a strange golden fire in the old dog's eyes before the tentacles took him. Snakelike they coiled up his patting arm and shook him, and he was still struggling for breath to shout when they broadened and
179
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
slapped over his nose and mouth.
His frantic struggles were brief. His slayer rose slowly to an impossible height for a dog and held the dangling corpse upright. The other dog cocked its head for a moment, surveying the limp body. The canine form began to melt and flow, shifting slowly into an exact duplicate of the unfortunate servant.
Delicate tentacles undid the apron and held it out while Bralatar continued surveying the dead man critically, noting tiny scars, pimples, and precisely where hair grew. He shifted himself to match. He took the apron, careful to knot it as the man had worn it, and announced, "Done."
Lorgyn nodded and passed over the man's belt and ring of keys as he sank back down into dog shape atop the dead man. His tentacles coiled and squeezed, trembling with sudden effort.
When he was done, a bloody, boneless mass was all that was left of the servant. Tentacles dragged the gory thing behind the nearest tree and became digging claws. Soon all trace of the murder was gone.
Bralatar hummed the tune the man had been singing as he went to a wrought and fluted metal gate. One faithful war dog trotted at his heels.
In the small garden beyond, svelte nymphs and winged women of weathered stone posed in frozen wan-tonness among fountains and pools and floating lilies . . . and Dorgan Sundyl strode through them unseeing, bored to the depths of his being.
His muscles gleamed with oil and the vigor of this morning's workout, and his uniform shone back the sun. A bejewelled sword swung at his hip, and his movements had a lazy grace as one long-booted foot glided forward, followedas alwaysby the other, taking him around a grassy path that he'd walked a thousand thousand times before. He would dearly love something to fight.
Dorgan sometimes prayed to the gods to bring an in-
truder into the gardena man that he could bait a while before engaging him in furious swordplay, and subsequently slaying him and presenting him to the master. Even a little man would do.
He would have been surprised indeed to learn that the godsthe thoughtful godswere finally, this morn, about to grant his wish.
It took three keys before Bralatar found the one that opened the gateand by then, the magnificent-looking guard in the garden beyond was suspicious.
"How, now? What ails Areld?" Dorgan mused aloud as he strode toward the gate, hand going to sword and eyes flicking watchfully about to be sure that only one man stood there, not a concealed band of brigands.
Another thing . . . the dogs were never allowed in the garden! What was old Warhorn playing at?
"Areld?" he challenged, sword grating. "What befalls?"
Areld swayed, one hand on the opened gatebut fell, toppling forward into the grass without a sound. Dorgan raced to stand over him, blocking passage through the gate, looking warily around for an archer or anyone waiting to rush in ... but the woods beyond were empty of all but birds. Warhorn stood, patiently watching him.
Dorgan held the sword up between him and the dog, point out, just in case, and bent over Areld. "Are you sick, man? D"
Those were the last words he ever spoke. Something slammed into the small of his back and drove him into a sprawling fall onto the servant. Arms of flesh curved up to envelop his head, smothering him with ruthless efficiency.
Soon after, Dorgan and Areld carried a limp, pulped mass back out into the grounds, to the base of a certain tree where the turf was torn as if by a recent upheaval. "You should have dug a large pit," Areld said with dark humor. "I'm sure we'll be able to fill it if this mage is as suspicious minded as most. There'll be beasts and human guards every few paces ahead of us now to keep
ISO
181
ED GREENWOOD
intruders from ever breathing the same air as Lord Magnificent the Spell-Hurler."
Retracing their steps, the guard and the servant passed through the garden, coming at last to the only way they could see into the castle: a stone door carved into the shape of a snarling human face, with two outstretched hands beneath it to serve as handles.
"Warded, or Fm a war dog," the man who was not Dorgan muttered. "I don't like the look of those hands."
"So we slide past," the one who was not Areld murmured, extending a ribbon-thin tentacle to point. "Heresee?"
It took some time to flatten themselves out into creeping things thin enough to slip through a tiny gap between the crumbling stone and the old, slowly warping doorframe, with its carvings of satyrs and bunches of grapes and flirtatious sprites, but they passed through without incident, and without being seen.
They stood in a high, vaulted hall whose open bronze doors showed another, loftier hall, with a gallery at its far end, and many doors opening off it here, there, and everywhere. To the left, and nearby (by the smell) was the kitchen; the location of other features they could only guess at.
Wherefore the two men dwindled hurriedly back into the shapes of the two war dogs and padded into the hall with apparent aimlessness, sniffing as they roamed. The doors they passed were closed, but a broad, red-carpeted spiral stair ascended at the far end of the hall, and up this they wenton the theory that most wizards like to look out loftily over the lands around.
Partway up its ascent, the stair paused at a sunny landing, and Bolder slunk over to the small forest of ferny plants there. He peered through, uttering a short whufto signal Warhorn that he'd found something of interest.
The two Malaugrym had retained their own eyes, far keener than those of a dog, and could readily see a
ALL SHADOWS FLED
small, slender, rather plain stone tower outside.
The tower was ringed by a moat over which tiny lightnings of amethyst hue flickered from time to time some warding magic, no doubt. The moat in turn was surrounded by a strip of lawn. Flagstone paths led to the edge of the moat, but there was no sign of any drawbridge, and the paths also ran in a great arc in both directions, around the tower and out of view, flanking the walls of a gigantic building . . . the one in which they stood.
"Rich indeed, this wizard," Bolder growled. "Look: this house goes all the way around."
Warhorn growled a wordless reply of exasperation. How long was it going to take to find a safe way out of this vast house, into the inner garden with the tower?
Not long at all, as it turned out. A two-headed panther, black and deadly, stalked into view on the circular lawn, and a door swung open as if it were expected. They saw a man, a goad in his hand, standing in the open door, and the great cat moved fluidly toward him.
"Feeding time for everyone," Bolder grunted. They turned away from the window to hurry down the stairs.
A little distance along the passage they saw two women carrying bundles of linen. The maids frowned at them but did nothing beyond exchanging the question: "What are the dogs doing in here, I wonder?"
Wagging their tails, the dogs passed on by, proceeding to a place where a momentary shift of a paw into a human hand opened doors that were not locked, skirted a strong smell of cat (they heard a questioning growl from the other side of a door they left closed), and found their way to the inner garden. No one shouted an alarm as the dogs pawed the door open and stepped out onto the lawn.
Strong magic tingled around them, and they looked this way and that in some haste. The lawn seemed deserted.
A huge, curved stone bench adorned the edge of the
ED GREENWOOD
moat, and beyond it Bralatar saw what he was looking for: the top arc of an old, massive grating in the tower wall, moat water lapping into it. A privy chute.
"Come," he said. He headed straight across the lawn. On the edge of the moat he shifted shape to grow flippers and tentacles, and heard Lorgyn's snort of alarm behind him as the stone bench suddenly shuddered and rose, stretching out hammerlike arms. A golem!
By then Bralatar was in the inky water, and too busy to worry about guardians on land: what felt like large hungry eels with teeth like daggers were savaging him. He grew tentacles, thrust one down an unseen gullet, and expanded, tossing bony spines out and through his foe until the water turned a dull red and the biting went away. He served another eel with same tactic, and another. By then, massive stone arms were crashing down into the water, and Lorgyn was splashing frantically to keep clear of their strength.
Bralatar made an eel-thing of himself and wriggled through the grating, ignoring a few nips from another unseen moat dweller. The stone chute ahead of him was as slimy and noisome as he'd expected, but rose clear of the water straight away. He wormed up it hastily, becoming a snakelike ribbon as he went in case the wizard was thoroughor crazedenough to have traps partway up a dung chute.
Behind him, Lorgyn splashed around for a breath or two more before he was clear of the water. Bralatar spared him no attention, but spiraled steadily up the shaft, sending feelers ahead to probe for traps. Somewhere above them, someone was cheerfully whistling a very old bawdy tune.
He found nothing, but as his most cautiously questing tentacle rose a trifle up out of the privy seat to peer into the dark chamber beyond, a calm, soulless female voice said: "Turn back," and a radiance began to grow around the top of the shaft. The whistling broke off abruptly.
184
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Hurry!" Bralatar snapped, placing suckers on the stone around him and heaving hard. He catapulted up out of the shaft like some sort of flying squid, and thumped to the floor; he'd not yet begun to grow when a second thump heralded Lorgyn's arrival.
"Now who can that be?" an annoyed voice came to their ears through the chamber door. It sounded very near, and approaching. The mage was almost upon them!
Lorgyn laid a tentacle on Bralatar's shoulder and hissed, "Distract himthose two women in the green tapestry room at the brothel; unclad, holding hands, and amazed at somehow ending up here. .. ."
They shifted shapes with lightning speed, twisting, writhing, and arching like maddened thingsand were done, linking their slim fingers together and adopting amazed and fearful expressions just as the door opened by itself, and a balding, beak-nosed man peered in at them over a leveled wand.
"By the Seven Mysteries, who are you?" he gasped.
"Please, sir," the blonde woman breathed, entreaty in her green eyes, "where are we? What place is this?"
The wizard dragged his eyes up from the ivory curves of her bare body, swallowed, and blinked.
"You're in my towerthe Tower of Mortoth," he said gruffly. "Er, that's me." He took a step into the room. "Perhaps you've heard of me?"
The taller of the two women parted her raven tresses to display a figure fully as spectacular as her companion's, and husked, "Nay, Lord . . . but pray, tell us about yourself. Pleasing great men is our businessand our pleasure."
And as Mortoth goggled at her in astonishment, two tentacles appeared over the shoulder of the blonde maid and shot out with terrifying speed. One grasped the wand, twisted, and snatchedand it flew from the stumbling wizard's bruised fingers.
"Rivals!" the wizard snarled as he caught his
18$
ED GREENWOOD
balance. Blue-white bolts of force were already streaking from his fingers in a hasty burst of magic missiles.
Those missiles curved home, and he saw the two intruders flinch, but one had grown fleshy wings, and the other had dropped into catlike form, and they sprang at him before he could do anything else.
The room crashed and spun for Mortoth as heavy bodies slammed into him and bowled him over. Suddenly flesh was enveloping him. He struggled, trying to spit out something that was probing into his mouth, and failing.
Lorgyn, his eyes like two copper coins, catching the sun, encased the wizard's head and hands in folds of flesh, invading his mouth with a firm tentacle to keep him from speaking spells, and leaving him only small nose-hole for breathing.
"Do you want the portal right here?" he asked.
Bralatar shrugged. "Why not? We know a way into this room, and I don't want to risk wandering around among waiting spells and enchanted items and possible traps looking for a better place. Get the thing done first."
Lorgyn nodded. "The decision is wise." He held the wizard securely as Mortoth's struggles ceased and his body started to tremble.
Bralatar paced out the space he'd need and began the casting, moving slowly and carefully, his body half voluptuous maiden and half panther. White, cold fire that blazed but did not consume sprang up where he gestured, building into two open ringsboth about as far across inside as a man is tall; one horizontal and the other verticallinked by a webwork of complex lines and runes.
"Place him," he ordered. Lorgyn spun the helpless wizard deftly to a spot where Bralatar bound him about with the same cold fire before Lorgyn released the binding of flesh.
Mortoth blinked. He could suddenly see again and + 18G +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
opened his mouth to shout a spell, but found himself staring into a pair of cold, uncaring eyes for just an instant before his vision vanished abruptly. The same white, endless fire that had taken it whirled into his mouth, and all he could do was hum.. . .
Bralatar stepped back with a satisfied air, surveying the magical gate he'd created. The wizard hung spread-eagled and helpless in the upright circle; anyone stepping into the other circle, blazing just above the floor, would set foot in Shadowhome.
To use the other end to come to Faerun, a rival Shad-owmaster would have to stand in exactly the right spot in the Castle of Shadows, and utter the secret word Bralatar had bound the casting with. There was a small chance that one of the blood of Malaug might be standing near when the gate formedit did not become invisible until completebut in the spot he'd chosen, in a place as large as the Castle of Shadows, it was unlikely.
Necessary though it was if he and Lorgyn were ever to return home, Bralatar had no intention of testing his creation. Each use would drain the wizard of some of his life-energy, and they'd need another magic-wielding being to replace him. Most mortals could power the passage of only four beings before they died, the last life stolen from them to leave behind only shriveled husks.
It was a pity the senior Malaugrym never revealed the locations of the ancient gates in Faerun built or discovered by the early blood of Malaug. Worse still, neither he nor Lorgyn had the use of a scrying portal to search either Shadowhome or Faerun from afar. If there were gates enough and in the right places, they could have avoided this entire undertaking . . . and left important, bustling little Mortoth of Sembia in peace.
"At least we're putting this wizard to good use, not just slaying him and seizing his magic, as Lunquar did to all the Zhents he could find in the brothels of Sembia,"
+ 187
I
ED GREENWOOD
Bralatar commented, watching cold fire race up and down Mortoth's motionless limbs.
"Lunquar's gathered a lot of magic, don't forget," Lorgyn reminded him.
"Yes, but the risk!"
The Great Foe is dead! What is to stop us ruling over all?"
"So why did Lunquar counsel us to subtlety?"
"It's his way. Lunquar's always been a fierce loner; he refused to work with Dhalgrave himself, once. He's as bad as Ahorga."
"The probable difference between them is that to get home, Lunquar's going to have to do what we haveor use our gate, at whatever price we setand old Ahorga can no doubt travel freely back and forth between Shadowhome and Faerun. He must know the old gates and the traps our kin set on them ages ago."
"Are there any gates known to our kin, that we've not trapped?"
Lorgyn shook his lovely blonde head. "Not so far as I know; the doing was deliberate and absolute, to prevent the use of all gates known to us by any being not familiar with our guard spells."
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Flamerule 23
"And we intend to keep things that way," said Am-dramnar softly, staring through his hastily cast scrying portal. He'd only caught this utterance and the last few words of something about Ahorga, but it was clear which of the kin were involved: they'd found Bralatar and Lorgyn.
It had been sheer chance that he and Argast had passed through the little-used Hall of the Eyes to avoid the well-traveled Hathtor's Gallery. The gate had appeared right in front of them, lines of white fire draw-
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ing themselves in the air.
Amdramnar was fast with his magic, but he was more used to hurling slaying spells in haste than spinning a scrying portal at speed. It had taken some time to call up a view of the other end of the unfolding magic.
"So we know of four kin active in Faerun now: Ahorga and Lunquar, operating independently, and these two," Argast mused aloud. "Shall we place a slaying trap on their gate?"
"I think not," Amdramnar replied. "Given the right spell111 have find it in my libramswe can divine the trigger word Bralatar used in the casting. Then it can serve us as a route that Ahorga and the other elders don't know about, if we have to bring someone into Shadowhome undetected."
"A mate, for example," Argast said softly. "Your lady of the sword."
Amdramnar regarded him, unsmiling. "You seek a lady too, I know. With a world open to me, Sharantyr may not be my choice."
If the two Malaugrym who stood beside the scrying portal could have used it to look into each other's minds, they would have seen that Amdramnar burned with the need to have the mortal Sharantyrand no otherand that Argast had a deeper need. His mother had fled the Castle of Shadows long ago and successfully hid, somewhere in Faerun, from the seeking magic of the House of Malaug. She was then pregnant; Argast son of Halthor must have siblings now. If one could be befriended and manipulated, or bred with ... a new dynasty of Shadowmasters could rise to rule the shattered House of Malaug. . . .
But it was very much a good thing that scrying portalsand most other magic, even wielded by kin couldn't pry at the thoughts of Malaugrym.
"Let us go to your chambers," Argast suggested. "I'll wait without while you prepare your spell, and we can return here without delay."
ED GREENWOOD
Amdramnar nodded. He passed a hand across the scrying portal; it rippled and was gone, leaving the Hall of the Eyes dark and apparently empty.
"I have little liking for hunting mage after mage for their magic," Lorgyn said carefully as they stood in the room with the helpless wizard floating between them, "but we should take steps to ensure that this one doesn't have an apprentice or three who'll find and free him."
"Hahif I know apprentices, more likely they'll slay and rob him, and take away all the magic they can." Bralatar replied.
Lorgyn looked thoughtful. "That brings to mind another thing," he said slowly, frowning. "There have always been rumors that Malaug left powerful magic hidden on Faerun before he came to Shadowhome. It was one of the reasons old Stannar grumbled so much about the prohibition on forays into Faerun. If we can find it..."
Bralatar lifted an eyebrow. "Is that why you ransacked Candlekeep?"
Lorgyn smiled faintly. "You know about that? Aye, but I found nothing there . . . not even in the minds of the eldest whitebeards. Are Malaug's writings truly lost, or forgottenor are they just hidden in some grasping wizard's tower?"
"Elminster's tower, of course," Bralatar said grimly. His eyes alight with a sudden dark fire. "And with El-minster destroyed . . ."
19O
13 Oat of the Shadotos
Shadows roiled around them, sliding past in an endless murmur of green and gray motes, streaming between the massive stone pillars. Each pillar, some of the kin whispered, held an unfortunate Malaugrym, entombed alive as part of the cruel magics Malaug employed. These traitors thus kept the very foundations of the Castle of Shadows from being swept away by shadows.
Argast and Amdramnar both suspected those whispers held truth. There was something eerie about the Undercrypt. One felt the scrutiny of an unseen presence here. As the Malaugrym stood facing each other in the stream of ever-shifting shadows, they could feel it very strongly. Was the watcher all that was left of Malaug himself? If it was the First to Walk Shadows, he must be truly ancient. . . and he never broke silence or gave any sign that he knew what befell his descendants. Other Malaugrym believed the castle itself was sentient, that the Undercrypt was where it was most truly awake and aware.
"I am ready," Argast announced calmly, "but I have one question: how much greater is the risk to us, traveling to a place neither of us has actually been?"
"Oh, but we have," Amdramnar said with a smile. That's the beauty of it. Moreover, when we visited, I let fall a focus token there. The risk is vanishingly small."
ED GREENWOOD
Argast frowned. "You say I have been to this place?"
"Yes. We stood in the sky hurling spells down at the Great Foe and the three rangers with him when they were encamped in a ruin, and"
"There? The ruin?"
"It's as good a place as any," Amdramnar said. "Close to places we've viewed, but in the wilderlands. We're not likely to be seen arriving, nor be swiftly called upon to shift shape or act at being something we're not until we choose to do so. Let us smell and feel Faerun first."
A faint smile crossed Argast's face. "Good points, all. Let us be going, then. I have waited a very long time for this."
"I, too," Amdramnar said, and reached out his hand to touch Argast's shoulder. He spoke a single word, there was a momentary falling, spinning sensation and they were suddenly standing in the long grass of upland Daggerdale, with the ruins of Irythkeep around them.
"See how easy it is?" Amdramnar said, shaking his head. "It seems incredible that all of our clan has been kept from this for centuries, for fear of one old man!"
A helmed head promptly bobbed into view above a section of crumbling wall, and a voice roared, "Enemy mages! Strikestrike to slay, for the greater glory of the Dead Dragons!"
The two Malaugrym exchanged startled looks, then ducked away in opposite directions as a ball of flame hissed through the air, divided into two smaller balls, and chased them.
"By the blood of Malaug, who've we stumbled into this time?" Amdramnar snarled, somersaulting over a jagged wall and falling down the steep drop-off beyond with a jolt that rattled his very teeth. A moment later, there was a flash and a ground-shaking roar. The fireball struck the wall and blew it apart; it promptly toppled, burst, and plummeted down on top of him.
AI.L SHADOWS FLED
The furious Malaugrym grew one long leg and leaptcrazily off-balancefrom under a huge pile of rubble that thudded into the turf where he'd lain a moment before.
He landed, rolled, and came up facing back where he'd been, in time to see a large war bird that must be Argast flap into view, rising sharply. A robed man who bore a gleaming staff stood on the edge of the drop-off. As Amdramnar hastily backed away, the man discharged the staff, spitting a beam of flame at Argast that scorched him all along one flank and startled him into a fall.
Another man took up a dramatic stance, a wand raised in his hand. He peppered Argast with magic missiles, sending him down to a hard landing on the rubble pile.
Argast got up shrieking in fury, but his Art was feeble. He could do little against wizards of power. He fled desperately downhill, changing shape into a large, bounding jackrabbit for greater speedand outrunning a web of crimson bolts from the staff.
Very soon Amdramnar fetched up beside Argast, his eyes blazing. "Somewhere quiet in the wilderlands? By the fist of Malaug, what're the cities like?"
"Someone else must have decided this ruin would be quiet and secluded, tooor they wouldn't be so eager to throw away powerful magic on two men they haven't even spoken to yet," Amdramnar said calmly. "Let's withdraw."
"There seems little point to it," Argast said grimly, pointing at another swarm of bright bolts headed their way: magic missiles, unavoidable and painful. "Who are the Dead Dragons, anyway? An adventuring band? Some of the Great Foe's apprentices, out for some fun?"
Amdramnar suddenly chuckled. "No, I think they're some sort of cult that were always bothering the Great Foe . . . idiots who worship skeletal undead dragons."
Argast gave him a disbelieving look, but gritted his
+ 193-*
ED GREENWOOD
teeth as the swarm of magic missiles struck home, hurling them both onto their backs in the grass. "Let's move out of sight," he said, sounding sick. That hurt." Keeping low, they crawled over a ridge and became two wolves, trotting in a wide circle around the ruin.
"Shall we go elsewhere?" Amdramnar asked.
"Revenge first," Argast said in iron tones. "No one should try to slay Malaugrym out of hand and get away with it!" They trotted on. "So what does worshiping un-dead dragons have to do with hurling spells at everyone you glimpse?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "They seize treasure to offer dragons," he said slowly. "Perhaps they thought we were thieves come to take it."
"They walk around heavily laden with killing magic all the timer
"Perhaps the Shadowmasters High were not such fools as we thought to ban entry into Faerun," Amdramnar said mildly.
"Bah! Bralatar and Lorgyn still liveand have done well here. If those two overconfident lackwits can thrive in Faerun, we certainly can!"
"Talking wolves?" A man's voice said from behind them. "Shapeshifters, more likely! "Ware a trap!"
Without bothering to look around, the two Malaugrym broke into a run. The fireball, when it came, exploded just above their heads.
Somewhere in the red, roaring inferno of the fireball's fringes, Argast fetched up very hard against a boulder and felt many things snap. He saw Amdramnar hurtle helplessly past, turning over and over in midair, so racked with pain that he was losing wolf form. Tentacles and a misshapen gray mass wobbled and thrashed the air just before he landed in a cloud of dust.
"A fireball!" snapped the first voice they'd heard. "They must know we're here! Attackr
As the two Malaugrym lay in pain among the smol-
ALL SHADOWS FI.ED
dering grass, forty or more mages and warriors boiled up over a ridge ahead of them and raced past, to the place whence the fireball had come. The sounds of battle arose from thereabouts.
When Argast had fought down the pain and shifted shape into something resembling a long-limbed crocodile, he moved hastily away. He was just in time. A whirling cloud of flashing blades suddenly twinkled into being above the rocks where he'd lain, clanging and crashing off stonethen turned into slowly drifting white butterflies. Not far away, they heard someone curse all gods and wild magic.
Amdramnar managed to slither to where Argast lay panting. "What befalls?" he hissed.
"The dragon idiots were waiting for these others, and thought the fireball cast at us was an attack meant for them. They rushed the ambush they were planning and are attacking here and now. Who these others are is yet beyond me; you're supposed to be the expert on Faerun!"
Amdramnar winced. "Truly said. Let's try to work our way over to the ruins. From that higher ground we can look back at the fighting."
"And get attacked by all the dragon worshipers who aren't quite so eager to get killed as these here are," Argast said sourly. "I await the experience with eager glee."
"Ah, be easy! Magic's starting going wild here anywaysee those blades turn to butterflies?"
"I'm not overwhelmed with joy," Argast said coldly, "at the prospect of starting my exploration of Faerun as a butterfly! Or as anything else twisted or shackled by sorcery, strange as it may seem!"
"I'll admit my idea of coming to Irythkeep has turned out badly," Amdramnar replied quietly, "but we've seen a wand and a staff in use already, and magic is a large part of what we came here for. Why flee from it now that we know what we face? Why, they're busy battling
ED GREENWOOD
each other!"
As he spoke, lightning cracked into the sky, split apart into three bolts with a spectacular crash, and leapt to earth, one striking quite close. Their hair rose, and their bodies tingled.
Argast said dryly, "That's why. Have you experienced enough yet? Can we go somewhere safer?"
"The ruins," Amdramnar insisted, "where we first appearedif these Cult of the Dragon fools were preparing an ambush, they must be camped there. It's the only landmark in this stretch of country; the people they're fighting must have been planning to camp there, or at least use it to keep on the route they intended, and pass close by."
"What shapes do you suggest we take? Fireballs, so we can pass unnoticed, perhaps?" The sarcasm in Argast's tone was venomous; it was clear he suspected Amdramnar of having deliberately sent him into danger.
"Trust me, Argast," Amdramnar said firmly. "This fray was not of my doing. I've been hurt as badly as you. We'll both be spending some time healing. We'll need a large blood meal as fuel for it, too."
"What if we bite unknowing into a wizard and trigger nasty contingency spells?" Argast said warily. "What then?"
"We're a long way out in the uplands; they probably all came here on horses," Amdramnar replied patiently. "Now let's move . . . looking like horses ourselves might not be a bad idea. Someone might try to catch a horse, but they're hardly likely to waste a fireball killing it!"
"Now you speak wisely," Argast said, beginning the shift into equine form. Amdramnar sighed in relief and did likewise. He had begun to fear there was some sort of curse afflicting this foray into Faerun.
They trotted in a very wide route, keeping to easy ground and almost out of sight of the ruined keep to be sure of avoiding the attention of anyone who might have a spell to hurl. They approached the ruins in the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
lee of a stand of trees, and made their hooves soft and pliable to keep as silent as possible. When they were near enough to hear voices and see men moving, they began to graze, drifting slowly around into view, hoping they'd be taken for mounts belonging to the camp.
"We'll take losses now, for sure," someone was grumbling. "How could they have seen us from so far off?"
"Mayhap they did not," a deeper voice replied.
"Mages don't waste fireballs on nothing, or throw them across grassland at a whim! That's sheer foolishness!"
"I've known some wizards whom the mantle of 'fool' would fit right well," the deep voice responded.
"Don't let Chaladar hear you say that! Some of the dragons like to chase and eat human warriors who put up a fight, you know!"
"Aye, I do know," the deep voice replied calmly. "Why do you think we asked you along?"
"What? How can you bedid Chaladar tell yoh, gods! My horse ... all unsaddled . . . sweet Tymora, aid me now!"
"That's not a very judicious prayer for a faithful follower of the Scaly Way, wouldn't you say, Malarnus?"
"Quit baiting the lad, Ornthar . . . you'll have him running into things and shrieking in a breath or two! Sit down, Felus! He was merely jesting with you!"
"Now what have you done with your wand, boy?" Ornthar growled. "Dropped it, no doubt, while running around like a man who can't find the privy seat and babbling to Lady Luck!"
The Malaugrym exchanged a look and moved closer.
"Here it is!"
"That's my wand, idiot!" Malarnus told him. "Where did you walk, Felus, and where've you been sitting? Go back to all those places and look for it, andthere!" There came a thud and a groan. Malarnus added sarcastically, "See how easy it is to find things when you trip over them?"
"Dolt!" Ornthar added helpfully.
ED GREENWOOD
Amdramnar took a step nearer and had a sudden idea. He began to shift shape, turning into a scorched-looking man, hairless and blackened, clothes hanging in tatters. When he was done, he turned to Argast and gestured for him to do the same. Argast gave him a doubtful look for a moment, but complied.
Amdramnar gestured to Argast to follow. He staggered around the last few trees and right into the camp.
"By the Dragon! Keep back!" a scarred veteran in half armor said, raising a wand in one hand and holding a blade in the other. Ornthar, no doubt. Seated on either side of him were an anxious youth and a sleek man with a spade beard. Felus and Malarnus.
"I-I . . . help us," Amdramnar gasped, staggering a pace closer. "Fireball..."
"Who are you?"
"Followers ... we were to meet Chaladar here," Amdramnar husked. "All dead now but us...."
"Felus," the seated man rapped, "get them some water." Malarnus indeed, by his voice. How generous.
Amdramnar staggered right over to the lad as he reached for a saddle skin, and Argast followed. Ornthar kept his eyes and his wand trained on them all the time. Malaug*s curse on all well-trained warriors, Amdramnar thought, and worked magic that called forth fire.
Flames flared up right behind Malarnus, who heard the hiss and crackle, looked around with a frown, and jumped up with an oath. "Fire! Magic!" He spun around, eyes narrowing. "There's none here but y"
He was, of course, too late. A tentacle whipped lash-like around his throat, jerked, and broke his neck. He joined Felus and Ornthar, who'd been distracted for one fatal moment by Malarnus's shout. All three lay broken on the ground.
"Take anything that looks magical," Amdramnar said. "We can discard things later. We'll ride two of their horses."
198*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"And eat them later, too," Argast agreed, bending to the work of feverishly examining the camp.
They found three wands and an old cup . . . and that was all. If this Cult of the Dragon band carried heavy magic, it was in use beyond the ridge, where green smoke was drifting and the bright flashes of spells could still be seen.
Figures ran toward the ruined keep, now! Three . . . more ... a dozen, but still small distant dots. Time to be gone.
"Come," Amdramnar snapped. He turned toward the nearest horse.
Argast hesitated for a moment, looking as if he was about to refuse and go his own way. Then he. peered back at the running men, shrugged, and followed.
Amdramnar frowned, and was not gentle with his horse.
"I'd guess he's taken with some scrying spell and we won't see him until dusk," the younger and louder of the two men said.
"Peering at wenches in the brothels of Ordulin, most likely," the older man grunted. He ran a finger down the script in a thick and dusty book.
"Turnold!" the third apprentice in the library said sharply. She scowled. "You know I don't like to hear talk like that!"
The older man sighed. He replied without bothering to look up from his book, "You've got to learn about human nature and the ways of the world sometime, Irendue. You must notice how he looks at you."
That's a private matter between the master and myself," was the even sharper response, "and no concern of yours!"
"Oh, I'm not concerned," Turnold said easily. "If I were in your place I would be, but he's not interested in
199
ED GREENWOOD
me."
"For your information, Master Prentice Turnold, he's not interested in me in the manner you so crudely allude to, either!"
"Oh? And just when I thought I'd got right the scrying spell the master taught me ten years ago! I particularly like the black-and-gold gown, by the way. . . ."
"You worm!" Irendue shrieked, leaping to her feet, her face white to the lips. "You utter . . . spying snake!"
"Oh, I was following the master's instructions ... as was Lareth here. The master told us we might learn something. . . ."
The door banged furiously as Irendue left, and Lareth, who'd blushed as red as his scarlet robe, coughed uneasily. "You shouldn't bait her like that. You know she'll just run to the master and there'll be trouble."
"We have to pay for our training," Turnold said calmly, "and pay dearly. She pays in another way. I don't mind that; I'd just like her to be honest about it and not play the prim and prissy high lady with us."
"Why should she be honest?" Lareth asked, amused. "She's training to be a mage, not a hermit priest!"
"I could probably tell you things about hermit priests," Turnold replied calmly, turning a page.
"My, you have been busy with that scrying spell," Lareth returned. He held the grimoire he'd been frowning at under Turnold's nose and pointed at a notation in one margin of a battle spell. "Oparl's hand, do you think?"
Turnold shook his head. "Too spidery. Jamryth's, for a gold lion."
"I'll not wager with you, Turnold," Lareth said ruefully. "You're too often right!"
"That has always been my trouble," Turnold agreed calmly, eyes on his own book again.
"Thirsty work, this," Lareth said. He set down his book and flipping its spine ribbon to mark the page
ALL SHADOWS FLED
with Jamryth's notes. "I'm for a flagon. Join me?"
"Plenty of time left to get drunk today," Turnold replied. "I'll be along later."
"Right," Lareth said with a grin, and swept out.
Only a moment later, he added a scream.
By the time Turnold got out into the passage, wand in hand, Lareth had joined Irendueand the master! in a web of cold white fire that seemed to fill the privy chamber. Two women he'd never seen beforeno, men wearing the faces of wencheswere standing in the passage facing him, with wide and ruthless smiles on their faces.
As he swept the wand up, Turnold felt the horrible strength of the tentacles that were falling on him from all around the door frame . . . tentacles that trailed back along the floor to join up with the men-women's bodies!
The wand was slapped from his hand, but a horrified Turnold scarcely noticed. He was trying desperately to scream, but discovering, as tentacles crowded into his mouth and slid coldly up his nostrils, that it was much too late.. . .
Daggerdale, Flamerule 23
"I begin to think Lunquar's approach is the right one," Argast said as his exhausted horse collapsed under him. "Hide as much as possible. Keep to crow shape and the like, take human form only when another shape will win suspicion. Lie low and learn."
"Well have to lie low for a bit to heal fully," Amdram-nar grunted. "Kill these now and eat?"
"Why not? They're too weak to be of any other use!"
The Malaugrym had ridden across half Daggerdale without a break; Argast's mount had collapsed on a steep slope in the rolling hills of the southeastern dale,
+ SO1-*
ED GREENWOOD
hard by the woods that stretched to Shadowdale.
"I think the most important thing is to hide ourselves from the common folk," Amdramnar said slowly. "They seem very swift to call on adventurers when they see something amiss, and this world does have crude shapeshifters, .. ."
"Doppelgangers, yes, I remember all the tales about how Malaug must have bedded one and thus given us the power."
"It matters little now. I just want to hunt down this Sharantyr woman and the two men who came to Shad-owhome with her."
"And kill them, slowly and painfully?" "The two men, yes. The woman's fate depends on what she agrees to. . . ."
Argast shook his head and mouthed the words: then I'll kill her. He was careful to turn his head so that Amdramnar had no chance to see his lips.
Then he felt a tentacle brush his leg. He was about to strike it away angrily when he saw that Amdramnar was sinking down into the shape of a horse, and lying as if dead in the grass ... and that his lone tentacle was pointing urgently across the valley.
Argast crouched down. He had already begun to take horse shape when he saw them: a dozen or so men and women in drab leather armor. Dirt-caked weapons hung in their hands, and they crept cautiously through the trees. A patrol.
Someone's patrol, Argast made himself as much like the real horse beside him as possible and lay still.
It seemed a very long time before a voice said, low-pitched and near, "They're still warm . . . this one, at least, still lives. Ridden to death."
"So their riders must be close by ... hiding from us, no doubt."
"Zhent troops, for a gold lion."
"That's a wager I'll never take, Yheldon. If we find them and they have arrows, we'll end up just as dead as
ALL SHADOWS FLED
the mighty Elminsterand the Zhentsll be picking the gold coins out of both our purses!"
Argast twitched in excitement. The Great Foe dead!
It was dark before the two Malaugrym dared move again, coming up to clutch each other and hiss excitedly, "Elminster, dead!"
"We must confirm this," Amdramnar muttered. "I've heard tell men have thought him dead many times before."
"Of course," Argast agreed, "but if it be true, we can hunt freely!"
"Don't forget that woman back at the keep who turned our kin to mushrooms and slaughtered us like cattle! He's not the only one in Faerun we must beware of."
"Aye, but he was the one who watched and waited for us. Moreover, with magic gone wild and gods walking Faerun and everything in confusion . . .*
"You're right," Amdramnar acknowledged with a sigh, turning to look east.
"You sound disappointed that he's dead."
"I am, a little. I was dreading having to face him . . . but to strike him down myself! The honor of our house demands it! Someone has robbed me of the chance to fell the Great Foe." Amdramnar shook his head, and chuckled. "With Elminster gone, whatever will the elder kin blame their failures on now, I wonder?"
"They'll find something," Argast said. "They always do. I think skill at finding targets for blame is part of the wisdom of being an elder."
Near the Standing Stone, the Dales, Flamerule 24
"There's a large party on the road south of the Stone," Sharantyr said. She leapt lightly down from the lowest bough of the tree. The others were already loosening weapons in sheaths and taking up their gauntlets.
ED GREENWOOD
"Did you see lots of armor?" Belkram asked eagerly.
Sharantyr shook her head as she unlooped the reins of her mount. "No, bold warrior. I saw horses, men's heads above them, and dust. At least twenty horses, and probably more." She vaulted into the saddle and looked to Storm.
The Bard of Shadowdale smiled. "It's always good to have a look at the Stone before one rides there. It avoids a lot of surprises."
"Could it be another Zhent army?" Itharr asked as they guided their horses cautiously around roots, down mossy banks, and out onto the Hillsfar road.
Storm frowned. "Blackhelms riding openly, no. Some of our people"they knew she meant the Harpers "would have brought me word of any such force gathering or on the move through Sembia. Zhent agents could well have sponsored some hireswordsbut on the other hand, were I an honest merchant in times as troubled as these, I'd travel in a large band with plenty of bought blades to defend me, too." A faint smile crossed her face, and she added, "So, as usual, we'd best be ready for anything."
They rode in wary silence past the ancient Standing Stone, seeing the glitter of steel in the forefront of the travelers coming north toward them. It was soon evident that the front rank consisted of five hard-eyed mercenaries with ready crossbows and full armor. They came on without stopping, loading and leveling their bows as they saw the armed rangers.
At the sight of those preparations, Storm said, "Stay well back, all of you. With magic unreliable, I can't protect you against crossbow bolts."
Itharr made a small sound of protest, but Sylune's soft voice said, "Heed her. Your death can be avoided this time if you act wisely, so why not avoid it?"
In the silence that followed, they watched Storm ride to meet the oncoming band.
"Stand aside, brigand," one of the hireswords ordered
ALL SHADOWS FLED
shortly.
"Surrender your names and business to me, mercenary," Storm replied calmly, unmoving. "Stand aside, I said!"
"Is anyone in this mounted assembly of a more reasonable mind?" Storm asked mildly. "Most travelers on these roads are well aware that the Knights of Myth Drannor patrol here; if your business is lawful, our encounter may be brief and pleasant. , . but an exchange of information is expected."
A crossbow snapped, and a quarrel flew. Belkram growled and made to launch his mount forward, sword flashing out.
At his ear, Sylune" said in a voice of iron, "Stand and watch! You may even learn ..."
Storm calmly plucked the crossbow bolt from her breast, examined it critically, and held it out, looking at the gaping man who'd fired it. "Yours, I believe?"
"Who are you?" another of the mercenaries snapped, face pale and voice sharp with alarm,
"Ah," Storm replied pleasantly, "the words you should have spoken first. I am Storm Silverhand, Bard of Shadowdale, and am accompanying a road patrol ordered by Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale and the Knights of Myth Drannor to keep peace on the roads in these perilous times. Again, I ask you your names and business."
She tossed the crossbow bolt, underhanded, back to the man who'd fired it. He juggled it but dropped it to the road, and started to dismount.
"What's the delay here?" a man in rich robes called, urging his mount forward.
A man in a yellow cloak, who rode behind the mercenaries, answered, "Some sort of road patrol asking our business."
"Ignore them; we're in a hurry."
"A hurry to go where, goodsir?" Storm asked quietly.
"Ride her down!" the man ordered the mercenaries
ED GREENWOOD
curtly. Seeing one of his men out of his saddle, he shouted, "You heard me! Get up and get on!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries said, "this w"
"I'll hear none of it! Onward!"
"Hireswords," Storm asked quietly, "is this most audible man your master?"
A smile flickered on more than one face along the line of armored warriors before one said, "Aye, Lady. Rethuld of Saerloon."
"Thank you, good warrior," Storm said politely. She raised her voice. "Rethuld! I would speak with you!"
"But 7," the man spat contemptuously, "would not speak with you! Anyone blocking the high road is a brigand, and I slay brigands, not bandy words with them!"
"By the treaty of the Stone in whose shadow we stand," Storm said quietly, "any dale lord is empowered to send patrols out on the roadsand all travelers on the road are bound to obey such patrols and surrender to their queries and examinations."
"That treaty is centuries old! We pay no attention to it in Sembia!"
"Old it may be," Storm replied calmly, "but I was there at its making, and I was also present not so long ago as all that, when the young land of Sembia in turn signed it to gain trade access to the Moonsea North and grow to its present wealth. You would do well to pay continued attention to it if you are a merchant of Sembia. Treaties ignored may be revokedand with the roads closed, what are the prospects for your wealth then?"
"You said the dales were unprotected," the man in the yellow cloak said to Rethuld, frowning. "You said we'd be able to"
"Silence! I am not prepared to discuss our private business dealings on the high road! We can speak of this laterif there is to be a later for you, Jasten!"
"I think," Storm said quietly, "this has gone far
ALL SHADOWS FLED
enough. I've no wish to see blood spilled this day, so I think we'll have a little truth here." She made a gesture.
Another crossbow bolt hummed past her, but missed, and Storm completed her spell. She looked slowly around at the row of mercenaries and the half a dozen merchants crowded behind them. There were wagons beyond, with a dozen or more additional mercenaries flanking them . . . and presumably a rearguard. "If there's no harmful intent in this man's replies, you'll all be free to proceedbut I will look unfavorably on men who try to slip past me, or offer violence to me, before I am done. That means you, sir, trying to stay unseen in the trees .. . come out where I can see you!"
A man shouldered sullenly out through the brush, astonishment on his face and a sword in his hand. "Whowhat are you, Lady?" he demanded.
"I am Storm Silverhand. Do you believe nothing in Sembia of the tales of Those Who Harp, or of the Seven Sisters? Or do you dismiss them as idle fancies and turn back to the hard, grasping work of stacking coins ever higher?"
"Minstrels tell many wild tales of the barbaric back-lands of Faerun," a fat merchant snapped from behind the line of mercenaries. "If we believed them all, we'd not dare leave our bedchambers for fear of flying dragons and dark elves in the streets and Red Wizards behind every tree!"
"Tell me," Storm asked, widening her eyes, "is your bedchamber tastefully furnished?"
"What?"
"If, as you say, you spend so much time there . . ."
There were chuckles from the men around, and the fat merchant sputtered in anger. "Ikill her!"
"Lord," one of the mercenaries replied, not turning to take his eyes off Storm, "I don't think that's possible. Not for us. Let's just hear her out, andgods willing we can proceed."
+ 2O7-*
ED GREENWOOD
Storm gave him a dazzling smile. "Thank you, good-sir. It is always a pleasure to know one is in the presence of patience and good sense."
Then she turned to Rethuld, who sat silent and pale, beads of sweat suddenly thick on his forehead, and said gently, "While my spell lasts, you will be able to answer direct questions only with the truth. I ask you now: for what purpose was this band formed?"
Rethuld licked his lips, and his face contorted for an instant before he said, "To gain property in the Dale-lands."
"Why?" Storm asked, "and why now?"
"Sembia grows unsafe . . . without watch spells, thieves and brigands are free to loot, kidnap, and slay as they like. I gathered men whose business, like mine, can be run from any locale, and we came north to find a better place to bide until the strife be over."
"How did you plan to find this 'better place'?"
Rethuld looked around helplessly, sweating, and said, "S-Search, until we came upon one to our liking."
"And what sort of place would be to your liking?"
"A stout keep or defensible manor." The words came out of Rethuld reluctantly, as if he were fighting hard not to utter them.
"Such places are seldom deserted," Storm said mildly. "I can think of only four that stand empty at present, and those are isolated ruins infested by monstersextremely primitive and dangerous accommodations. How were you planning to take possession of a suitable place?"
"I-I . . ." Rethuld looked trapped, his eyes darting wildly from side to side, his lips trembling. When he spoke again, his voice was low and despairing. "Ah seize it by force of arms."
There was a sigh of resignation from the men all around, and swords grated out, but Storm sat still in her saddle and said calmly, "I thought so. Tell me; was the idea your own?"
+ 2O8-*
Au, SHADOWS FLKD
"Ah, no, Lady," Rethuld said, his voice rising to a sudden, desperate squeal, " 'twas brought to me by another."
"And the name of?"
Rethuld sobbed suddenly; a blade that seemed to be made of bone protruded from his chest. He shook, mouth working, looked down at the bloody point in horror, and slumped over. The bone slid out of him from behind.
"I thought so," Storm said calmly, ignoring the blades that were slashing through her. "Malaugrym."
The man behind Rethuld suddenly writhed and dwindledand a falcon sprang into the air, leaving an empty saddle behind. The bird darted south.
The blades were passing through the B.ard of Shadowdale as if her body was made of smoke. She said to the men wielding them, "Submit to the others who patrol with me, and you shall have peace," but the fearful hacking continued unabated as the stone she wore between her breasts flashed with sudden blue fire. She rose from her own saddle and flew after the falcon, still in her own form.
"Gods," Belkram said as they ranged their mounts across the road to meet the oncoming mercenaries, "how can she take so many wounds?"
"She wears a gorget that protects her with ironguard magic," Sylune replied. "Metal weapons pass through her as if she were ... as insubstantial as I."
Lightnings blazed out from her, and mercenaries cried out, reeling in the shadows and dropping their weapons.
"You heard the Bard of Shadowdale," Sharantyr cried, standing up in her saddle. "Turn back to Essem-bra, in peace!"
As they stared at her, the ghostly head of Sylune drifted forward, its pale glow reflected back from swords and armor all around. She added briskly, "Bat-tledale holds manors in plenty left empty by the Zhents. I'm sure their rightful owners would be happy
+ 2O9-*
ED GREENWOOD
to sell them to you. Those who are adamant in their determination to press on will, before this day is put, find themselves sharing a grave with me."
That was all the Sembian band needed to see and hear. They wheeled their mounts in hasty terror and fled from the ghostly female head that flew toward them trailing long, silvery hair. They galloped south as fast as they could, leaving their wagons behind.
Belkram laughed aloud. "That was the easiest fight I've ever been in!"
Sylune turned. "Be not so quick to laugh; your work is just beginning."
"It is?"
"These wagons must be taken up the Stone, turned around there, and driven back to their owners, wherever they may flee to. I'll fly ahead to Essembra to get us enough drovers."
"Flying around like that? They'll flee just like all these hardened warriors here did!" Itharr protested.
"Not the Harpers," Sylune replied without turning. "The wagons, gentlesirs," She flew away down the road like an arrow shot from a bow.
Belkram sighed. "Why do we always get the sweat work, eh?"
"You're Harpers," Sharantyr reminded him sweetly. "Such unpleasantness provides meaning and purpose in your lives." Itharr shot her a grin, and she added, "You should be grateful: many folk never find meaning or purpose in their existence."
"Huh," Belkram grunted, climbing up onto the boards of the foremost wagon. "Why can't they all come and do this for us, then?"
21O
14
High Eoenf east at Loco Ryth&yn
The falcon winged frantically southward, trailing feathers in reckless haste as no real falcon would dare doand growing new ones as no real falcon could hope to do.
Storm followed in its wake. Her fly spell thrust her steadily on through the air. She kept low above the trees so she might survive her tumble to the ground when the magic failed or went wild, and to make sure the falcon could not veer off or descend suddenly without her seeing just where it went.
The falcon's flight was southeast over the forest until Essembra lay on their right. Once past the town, it heeled westward, passing south across the road to Sem-bia and the outlying farms of Battledale, heading for the distant silver ribbon of the fast-flowing Ashaba, where it left the Pool of Yeven. Long before it got there, the falcon turned north again, flew a little way, and dived suddenly to earth.
Storm hurriedly swerved behind a tree to avoid being seen; as she'd expected, the shapeshifter halted its descent to skim along the stone walls of an estate, and peered into the trees all around as it went.
The falcon completed its circuit of the walls. Apparently
ED GREENWOOD
satisfied he was alone, the Malaugrym sank down beyond the wall.
Storm hastily flew nearer, working her way through the trees; she wanted to be inside the walls too, when her spell ran out. Even if this turned out to be a garden of deadly Malaugrym.
Beyond the wall was a cluster of towers, one of the many walled villas that rich Sembians and wizards had built for themselves. They were enclosed for safety against the monsters and brigands that roamed these lush wilderlands. The road past the gate would be one of the long, winding lanes that fed into Rauthauvyr's Road just north of Blackfeather Bridge.
She dare not tarry or work her way along the wall to avoid detection; her spell would run out in moments. Darting over the wall, Storm found herself over deserted gardens and a small ornamental pond. She turned sharply to keep herself over dry land, and dived hastily down, righting herself to land feet first. It was good she did. She was well above the turf when her magic gave out, and she fell precipitously to earth.
"Once more to embrace the soft lips and bruising talons of adventure, friends," she murmured to herself, quoting a ballad she had written hundreds of summers ago. She got up and dusted herself off
The placid waters of a small garden pool showed her a rather fierce-looking lady in leathers, so she stripped off her clothes and sword, bundled them up together, and said a soft word over them.
They vanished obedientlyat least that small magic had worked right; now for the next one. She checked that she still had the dagger in its sheath under her hair, at the back of her gorget band. These days, a lady never knew when she'd need a good sharp knife. The gorget itself, stuffed with coins, bore a chased design that was elegant enough to accompany the attire she planned. To it, then ...
Standing nude above the pool, she worked a magic
ALL SHADOWS FLED
she'd not used in quite this way for years, creating an ornate off-the-shoulder gown that would pass muster in the most exclusive circles in Sembia, and elegant high sandals to go with it. Her silver hair would do as she bid it, so she gave herself a sleek fall of tresses over one shoulder, and an elaborate braid over her brow. 'Twould do, indeed.
Taking a last look around to mark the place she'd left her gear, Storm strolled languidly across the gardens, eyes missing little despite her relaxed manner. She spotted the spatters of fresh blood beside a stone bench in a little bower, about where the falcon had landed, and wondered which inhabitant of the household was now a broken, unrecognizable boneless thing hastily buried nearby.
The Malaugrym awaited her somewhere inside these walls, all right. Storm strolled ahead as if no such peril was near, enjoying the gardens. A winding path girt with fragrant flowers took her to two small bridges that hopped from islet to islet across the large pond, to a terrace where stone urns stood in floral ranks along low, scalloped stone walls. Within those walls she could see folk movingliveried servants.
Calmly she strolled up the path, ascending a broad stair to where a grizzled, monocled man of graying years and mustache was enjoying a row of flagons, each containing a different wine. He stared at her in amazement for only a moment before springing to his feet and saying, "Great lady, be welcome in Low Rythryn Towers!"
He bowed, offered her his hand, and indicated a vacant chair beside his own. "I am Lord Thael Sem-bergelt, once a battle commander of Sembia, but now lord only of this house. I am delighted the gods have brought me so noble anddare I say?beauteous a guest! Pray, make known to me your name."
"I am Storm Silverhand, called by many the Bard of Shadowdale," Storm replied with grave charm, "and I must tender my apologies for arriving uninvited. My
213
ED GREENWOOD
An, SHADOWS FLED
spell travels brought me here unintentionally."
"No apologies are needed, not at all! In truth, you filled me with delight, strolling up through the gardens like that as if you were some hidden nymph come to greet me! It seemed this house were showing me one of its treasures!"
"Gallantly said, my lord," Storm said with a twinkle in her eyes. "I fear I've upset the calm tenor of your days. You must have few guests."
"We see few welcome guests in these troubled times," the old lord agreed gravely, offering her an empty goblet and silently beckoning a servant over. "But my house is honored by your presence. I heard you sing once in a tavern in Selgaunt, when you danced on a table for a room of weary soldiers. I'll not forget that."
Storm inclined her head in thanks. The servant, bearing a silver platter of decanters, glided to a stop between them.
"Pray take wine, Lady Storm," the old lord said earnestly, leaning forward in his chair. "I dearly hope you can stay for evenfeast, or even grace us for a few days. My house is yours."
"I would be delighted to dine with you tonight, my lord," Storm replied, watching her host trying to keep his eyes away from where her plunging gown was designed to make him look, "and see the morning sun rise with you. But as for longer, I cannot say."
"I quite understand," Lord Thael rumbled. He ques-tioningly indicated the array of decanters.
"The glowfire, I think," Storm said, and enjoyed watching the gnarled old hands unstop and deftly pour.
He placed the goblet gently before her. "You are my fourth guest this even! There seems to be much strife on the roads in Battledale just now; we seldom see so many travelers this far off the road. You'll meet them at evenfeast."
"We?" Storm asked, raising her glass in salute. "You have a family, Lord Thael?"
"Only a nephew, Oburglan," Lord Thael said gruffly. "You'll meet him, too."
Guessing that the lord's nephew was no family prize, Storm savored the delicate bouquet of the glowfire for a moment, exchanged smiles with her host over the rim of the glass, and sipped. Yes. She kept her face pleasant and drank the wine with apparent relish, trying to ignore the burning sting of the poison as it slid down her throat. .. .
She'd chosen the drink herself. Thael had poured it, a servant had brought it ... ah, gods above, the Malau-grym could be anyone!
As dusk came, Storm was still grimly trying to decide which of the folk of the manor was the shapeshifter. The servants came to call them in to evenfeast in the candlelit great hall of Low Rythryn Towers.
The waiting had been pleasant. Lord Thael, obviously enchanted with her, had treated Storm with all the courtesy he knew, discussed politics with a keen worldly interest, laughed appreciatively at her mimicry of dale lords, and gave a shrewd summation of the directionless self-interest that governed Sembia.
Now he escorted her to the best seat at the board, at his right hand. A lady of rank, Storm bowed as an equal to him, and endured a daggerlike glare from a thin and sour young man. Probably Oburglan, furious at being displaced at table in front of guests.
"Well met, gracious lady," said Thael's expressionless seneschal, Burldon Hawklan. "Even in this isolated hall, we have heard of the valiant deeds of the Bard of Shadowdale, and Those Who Harp at her command."
Storm smiled back at him. "Minstrels tend to over-flower what they sing of," she responded gently, "but I thank you for your kind words." Hawklan bowed stiffly and took his place at the far end of the table; to Storm's eyes, he was every inch a professional soldierone who did not consider himself retired.
The other guests were less impressive. One was a
214
ED GREENWOOD
smooth-faced, saturnine trader in spices and pelts from Ordulin by the name of Loth Shentle; the second was a young and handsome priest of Tymora from Selgaunt, Dathtor Vaeldeir, who professed to be very excited at the chaos now reigning over the Realms; and the last was a grim and dangerous-looking man, Thorlor Drynn, introduced to her as a trade envoy of Hillsfar.
The dinner was excellent, consisting of roasts of just about everything that could be roasted, smothered in a variety of gravies and sauces, with spiced greens served as garnishes. And wine, of course . . . much wine.
There was poison in her goblet again. Storm took a certain dark amusement in the fact that she could go on drinking it all night without ill effects because of what Mystra had made her into. She let her eyes wander up and down the table, wondering which of the eyes meeting hers belonged to a shapeshifterand how soon it would be ere the Malaugrym grew restive and attacked.
The conversation began with talk of trade difficulties in these lawless times, and came around to unreliable magic and priests rendered helpless or mad and the Fall of the Gods. At that point Thael declared he'd heard enough about gods and their doings, and diverted talk to the future of trade in the Moonsea lands and the Dales, and the difficulties Zhentil Keep's aggressive nature was causing to all traders.
The grim envoy of Hillsfar spoke up. "For my part, my lord, we in Hillsfar are resolved to meet force with force. For too long the Zhents have taken advantage of the absence of strong nearby opposition to force their will on other folk and territories not their ownin fact, to behave little better than the brigands we universally detest.
"I do not speak of the times they raise armies and march on one of uswhich, by the way, seems to happen at least once a spring, ruining harvestsbut of their open attempts to control how and where ore is brought out of Glister, and anything at all out of
+ 216 +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Daggerdale. They try to dictate where and when ships may sail the Moonsea, on what terms we must all trade in the region . . . and even if we may trade at all with their rivals Cormyr and Mulmaster."
"Bullies will always be with us, sirif not one, then another," Loth Shentle said smoothly. "The trick is to anticipate their moves and take trade advantage of the side effects; a shortage of food here, rising prices of scarce items there . . ."
"As a fur dealer, you profit well out of Zhentil Keep's aggression, aye," Thorlor Drynn said coldly. "It has kept the prices of furs falsely high these ten years or more."
"I deal with the world as it is," Loth Shentle replied easily, "not as others might wish it to be."
"Yes, yes," the priest of Tymora said excitedly. "Deal with what the gods hurl your way, taking chances whenever you strive for something that is not the most obvious or easy!"
"But surely, my lords," Storm said quietly, "one should not accept the world as it is. Deal with it, yes but strive always in one's dealings to get something in return, to make the world give a little ... to nudge it in the direction of one's dreams."
Loth Shentle snorted. "I dream of vaults full of coins, Lady Storm," he said wryly. "Have you any that you can yield unto me?"
"Dreams are just that: dreams. Warriors must deal with the real world, with all its harsh brutalities and cold truths," the seneschal said.
Storm turned to look down the table. "I do not see the gulf between dream and reality, Sir Hawklan. We must fight Zhents because they actively pursue their dreams. In Shadowdale, we have fought them army to army, not merely poison in flagons'*she looked up and down the table, but saw no telling expression in the faces turned to her"and daggers in the dark. Seven open battles these past ten summers. We should all pay very great attention to dreams."
+ 217
ED GREENWOOD
Thorlor leaned forward. "Well said, Lady. I'd say the lords of Zhentil Keep have done quite well in their dreaming. Voonlar is already their vassal town, the Citadel of the Raven, which was to belong to us all, is firmly in their grasp, and Teshwave and Yulash lie in ruins because of them ... to say nothing of the harm done to the once-proud cities of the Moonsea North, Daggerdale, the Border Forest, and west along the trade route to far Waterdeep."
"Aye," their host said gruffly, setting down his heavy flagon. "There's a dream: the trade route from here across half Faerun to the Sword Coast. An awesome undertaking, however base the motives and bloody the doing. What say you, Nephew? You once told me you wanted to see Waterdeep."
"I wonder at what tolls I'll have to pay," Oburglan said sullenly, "if I wait for the Black Gauntlet to finish this trade route. I heard there was a Zhent takeover in Loudwaterand some dealings in Saerloon, too . . . something about a lady sorceress." He looked across the table. "What do you know of this, Lady Stormas a sorceress yourself?"
Thael turned a look of reproof on his nephew, brows bristling, but Storm smiled across the table at the resentful young man. "I'm hardly a sorceress, Oburglan, though I can cast a spell or two. I leave that to my more capable sisters. As to what befell in Saerloon, the sorceress who seduced those merchants and turned them to stone statues was an agent of Zhentil Keep. Over the years I've never found such tactics to have lasting success."
Someone chuckled, well down the table, and Obur-glan's eyes were murderous as he raised his flagon to cover his mouth.
"Stone statues do furnish a garden, thoughas Bur-gusk of Selgaunt found," Loth Shentle joked.
"Not this garden," Lord Thael rumbled. "I'd be too afraid of the spell wearing off and discovering I've got some mad Netherese sorceress at the far end of my
ALL SHADOWS FLED
pondand more: that she's furious and happens to have a spell or two that can level mountains! What would I say to her, eh?"
"Care to dance, my lady?" Dathtor suggested. There were roars of mirth.
"How about: my name is ... and my ransom is forty thousand pieces of gold?" Loth Shentle suggested.
"No, rather: my name is ... and my next of kin are..." Thorlor put in.
Lord Thael looked at the only woman at his table, and his chuckles died away. "I forget that you have freed folk from stone, Lady Storm. What did you say to them?"
Storm looked into her glass, and answered, "I usually told them where they were, that I meant no harm, and what year it was. They always wanted to visit the privy after that."
That innocent and truthful observation brought a general shout of laughter.
When it started to die Storm added, a twinkle in her eyes, "But if I met the Netherese lady you mention, I'd probably say: I've had mornings like you're having!"
Everyone hooted, even Oburglan. Storm mused briefly to herself about the effects of too much wine on folkit made them laugh, or cry, or rage all too easily. She plunged the table into awed silence by adding, "The only memorable Netherese mage I did meet was a man, and his body had withered away to almost nothing . . . so he tried to take mine."
"Gods," Hawklan mumbled after a very long moment had passed. "How did you escape?"
Storm shook her head. "I'm sorry," she said gently, "but that's a trade secret I keep as close about as any merchant guards his own. Ask Mystra to tell youit is hers to reveal."
Oburglan sputtered. "That's right!" he protested. "Say something like that, then turn all mysterious!"
"Oburglan!" Thael rapped out. "You speak to a great
ED GREENWOOD
lady; do so civilly, or leave this board."
His nephew's face flamed, and he brought his goblet crashing down. "Right, then" he began, placing both palms on the table to shove himself upright.
"Oburglan," Storm said softly, catching his angry gaze, "please stay. You are right to be angry . . . 'tis a maddening tactic we old wielders of sorcery use, to tell half a story and then fall silent when you want to know all. I would say more if I could, and I apologize for mentioning the Netherese at all."
Oburglan stared at her for a moment. He fumbled for his goblet. "How old are you, then?" he mumbled, eyes surveying Storm's curves. "I mean ..." he looked away and scratched at the lip of his goblet in some confusion, "I don't see any wrinkles."
Down the table, someone sighed, someone else loudly stifled laughter, and Lord Thael covered his eyes.
"I apologize for this wild-tongued kin of mine," he rumbled. Tray, forgiveness, Lady Storm!"
He turned blazing eyes to Oburglan. "Lad, lad, one never asks a lady her age, unless perhaps you're her suitor and must needs know what ground you walk upon! And even then, 'tis best to ask her brother, or father, or anyone else!"
"Your advice is good, Lord, and should be followed by all men of breeding," Storm agreed cheerfully, "and yet there are exceptions to every rule . . . and I am one of them."
She caught Oburglan's eyes again, and gave him the easy grin of a sister. "Never trust a minstrel or bard who speaks of times and ages, for they're always stretching a year here and a year there, speaking of long-ago battles or fair ladies as if they'd witnessed them themselves. But this once, and before all this table, I'll tell you truth: I am half a dozen years shy of my six hundredth summer."
Oburglan gulped, stared at her, started to sneer . . . then gaped. "You're serious," he whispered.
+ 2SO-*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Storm nodded. With one slim hand she indicated the shoulder that her gown left bare. "Not bad, eh?" she said in perfect mimicry of Lord Thael's gruff tones.
The table erupted again, and this time Oburglan joined in the general mirth. Lord Thael was practically weeping with laughter, his head nodding almost into his platter.
At the other end of the table, Hawklan saluted her with his goblet and said, "Remind me never to say anything before you, Lady, that I would not want to hear parodied!"
"A good rule for every man, Sir Hawklan, when dealing with any man or maid," she returned, raising her own glass. Did his eyes rest on it just a trifle too long?
Ahno. They were fixed a little lower down. This gown hadn't been such a bright idea after all. But then, sophistication has its price. Moreover, if all of us change what we are and what we do because of the threat of Malaugrym attack, shapeshiflers have won the victory without ever having to fight the battle!
"In that time, I have seen Hillsfar governed in many ways," Storm said, turning to the envoy as the laughter started to die. "I'd be interested to hear what you can tell us of Lord Maalthiir's publicly stated aims and intentions."
Thorlor Drynn inclined his head. "I thank you for your diplomacy and understanding, Lady Storm, in the wording you just employed. In reply, I can say only: very little. Lord Maalthiir has often promised to make Hillsfar great and to cleanse it of all hardship, suffering, and corruption. Laudable goals that none, I daresay, could seriously contest. By his actions, I think you can safely add to those general aims his intent not to let Zhentil Keep have possession of Yulash, nor to suffer Mulmaster or Zhentil Keep to have control of the river Lis, or Moonsea shipping in general. For what it is worthmy words as a mouthpiece of Hillsfar being, of course, suspect by definitionI see no great preparations for armies to march,
ED GREENWOOD
nor intentions on my lord's part to seize any other city or territory of Faerun."
"I'm relieved to hear it," Loth Shentle said dryly, "as should be all neighbors of Hillsfar. Two cities of rampaging warlords are more than enough hereabouts."
"You speak overcautiously, Sir!" the priest of Tymora told him, refilling his own goblet for perhaps the fortieth time, his face flushed with its effects. "Strife brings change, and change is the natural order of things. It makes men and maids able, and quick, and alert! Bold, and"
"Forced to rely on Lady Luck," the seneschal put in from the end of the table. "I've heard the litany a time or two before you were born, good Dathtor!"
The priest turned his red face around slowly to fix Hawklan with a bright-eyed gaze. "Then you should know e'en better than I that 'tis true!"
"I know no such thing," Hawklan said firmly. "I am a simple soldier; I swing my sword, obey orders to the letter, and let others worry about causes and outcomes and grand strategies."
"And on your off days, you drink too much and wench too muchbeg pardon, Ladyand let life carry you on, on to the grave without disruption or excitement," Loth Shentle said.
"A summation that sounds familiar, Nephew?" Lord Thael said meaningfully. Oburglan flushed.
"No, Uncle! I mean" his eyes darted to Storm, then back to Thael with an almost pleading look.
"Don't embarrass me in front of the lady, Uncle?" Storm asked the youth. "Is that what you want to say, but dare not find the words?"
Oburglan stared at her, opened his mouth, and shut it again, turning ruby to the tips of his ears.
"Oburglan," Storm said, setting down her goblet to lean forward, "never be embarrassed to admit truth, or think and talk about life, in front of anyone. I'd be more embarrassed to He about my life or refuse to admit that
+ 222 +
Au. SHADOWS FLED
things are as they are. I'm not upset to learn that you're drifting the days away hereit's not my life wasting away. If you're upset talking about it, that shows you're not satisfied in doing so, and that's gods-be-damned good."
Heads turned along the table at her language, but Storm kept her eyes locked on Oburglan's. "What you'd best do, when we're all gone, is take a walk in that beautiful garden out there with your uncle, and talk about what you want to do in life. Not to do what he says, but to decide for yourself. We all have to, sooner or later. If it makes you feel better to hear it, I'd passed away almost seventy years before I stopped my wild, witless pursuit of fun and started wondering what I wanted to do for myself."
Oburglan gulped. "Seventy years?" he said faintly. "I didn't know there was that much fun."
The table roared with laughter once more. When Lord Thael could speak again, he slapped Oburglan's arm, "Well said!" He turned to Storm and added quietly, "And very well said, Lady. I don't think I've a tongue nimble enough to thank you rightly for saying those words. Fve never heard it said better, in all my . . . er, sixty-eight years."
Storm smiled at him. "Shall I come back in two years to ask you what you've decided to do with your life?"
There were uneasy chuckles around the table, and Thael shook his head with a rueful smile. "I'd forgotten that the tongue can be sharper than a sword."
"I think you have the quotation wrong, Lord," the priest offered jestingly, but Storm turned on him with a smile.
"What, Hand of Tymora? You stand in service to a goddess and don't know for yourself the truth of that maxim? Truly, you must be a very good priest! All the clergy I know would much rather face the swords of foes than the lashing tongues of their superiors!"
Dathtor Vaeldeir winced. "I begin to see the truth of
+ 223 +
ED GREENWOOD
another maxim, Lords and Lady: 'If thou art captured, do and say anything to keep yourself from the hands of your foe's womenfolk.'"
Deep laughter rolled out around the table, and more than one eyebrow in the room rose to see Storm laughing as heartily as the others.
She raised her glass of newly filled, still-poisoned wine, her heart light, and bid the night continue long.
When the table did rise, her wish had been fulfilled; they'd talked away most of the time until dawn, and the first shift of servants had been replaced at table by a second. Most of the men were stumbling with drunken weariness as they sought out the jakes; Dathtor the priest was roaring drunk, and Oburglan had been emboldened enough by his imbibing to ask her how one best chose a wife. Storm was still smiling and shaking her head over that as she went to the women's garder-obewhich, of course, she had all to herself.
No one attacked her there. Afterward, she went for a walk in the gardens in the last faint moonlight, avoiding the torchlit areas. Someone at that friendly table was a shapeshifter . . . and a Malaugrym dare not leave her alive, when she could call down the Simbul upon him or point him out to half a hundred wizards. The poison raging through her veins was proof enough of that.
No, an attack would come. She kept to the shadows as Loth Shentle strolled past, a little unsteadily, singing an old familiar ballad about ladies fair and fey. He startled her a few steps farther on when he paused on one of the bridges, announced, "Gods, but she's beautiful!" and proceeded to vomit his evenfeast helplessly into the pond.
Someone else was walking among the far fern beds, impossible to identify in the gloom. Storm sat down on a bench in the lee of a spiky bush, only then discerning the seneschal, Burldon Hawklan, who strode softly past, hand on sword, eyes sober and alert, taking care
+ 224*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
to make little sound.
Storm rose thoughtfully and watched him vanish into the night. In one hand, she hid the small thing she'd taken out in the garderobe.
"Out takin'takeengair, pretty lady?" said a loud voice by her elbow. The drunken priest of Tymora tried to lean against the tree, missed, and went for a short stagger before finding his balance again. Storm brought her hand to her mouth to cover her smile as he grinned loosely at her, sketched a shaky salute, and said, "Doandoantdon't you worship the Lady Tymora, e'en as I do? C'mere!"
He was upon her, and the smell of wine was strong, and triumph blazed up in his eyes as he embraced her. His arms tightened . . . and seemed to be changing shape.
This was it. Their lips brushed together, and Storm worked her small magic in careful haste.
An instant later cruel claws raked her back, tearing away her gown and the flesh beneath in ribbons. Storm gasped and stiffened at the raw painbut instead of trying to pull away from the Malaugrym, she leaned into his embrace, deepening their kiss. His savaging of her back slowed in astonishment, but Storm clung to him with all her own great strength, holding him firmly as her tongue thrust her saliva into his mouth. With it went the powdered silver from the coin she'd dissolved with her spell.
The shapeshifter spasmed in sudden agony, fear, and desperation. The silver was as poisonous to him as the liquid he'd been feeding Storm all night. Had she not been one of Mystra's Chosen, she'd have died hours ago, after the first sip Lord Thael offered her. She kept that in mind as she drew her mouth away from his and watched him closely. The creature who was not Dathtor Vaeldeir shuddered in her arms, convulsed, and died.
When she was sure he was dead, Storm swung his body over one shoulder, letting the claws that still
ED GREENWOOD
dripped her blood dangle, and carried it grimly toward Lord Thael's kitchen wing, where there should be firewood enough to burn it.
She was most of the way there, crossing the great flagstone terrace, when many doors opened in the manor walls and a score of servants rushed out with lit torches, enclosing her in a wide ring.
Lord Thael stepped out last and faced her, sword in his hand. "What have you done, witch?" he bellowed, monocle dangling. He peered at her, and asked, "Or . . . is that you, Lunquar?"
Storm met his eyes coldly. "You know what I've done, Malaugrym. And what I must do." She lifted one side of her mouth in a mirthless smile, and asked, "Just to save time, tell mehow many more are there of you in this house?"
"I need no aid to deal with the likes of you, mortal woman," was the cold response. "With your precious El-minster dead, there's no one to watch us ... and no one to stop us!" His teeth glinted in the torchlight as they lengthened into fangs, and he added with soft smile, "Faerun will be ours!"
One of the servants screamed. Lord Thael was turning slowly into a thing with a tail and hunched shoulders of corded muscle. He came forward in a slow, careful crouch, eyes gleaming.
Storm let the body fall from her shoulder, kicked off her high sandals, and walked barefoot to meet him in the bloody tatters of her gown.
When she was only two paces away, the Malaugrym sprang and brought his blade around in a vicious arc. Storm strode right at him. His blade whistled through her as if she were smoke, and she grappled with him.
The Malaugrym ducked away and hacked at her again, saw that the blade really could not touch her, and flung it away with a snarl. It was still clanging across the flagstones amid sparks when he flung himself on her.
Aix SHADOWS FLED
They strained together in the torchlight, two sets of rippling muscles gleaming. The shapeshifter seized her shoulder and wrist and pulled, roaring triumphantly.
He'd intended to tear her limb from limb, slapping her awake and making her scream for mercybut he strained and pulled with all his might. . . and she resisted him easily, smiling all the while, and whispered the words of an enchantment,
The Malaugrym grunted in amazement at her strength, then felt his mouth and tongue moving of their own accordno, her will!to utter the single word "Ahorga."
Her magic had forced him to name himself! Enraged, Ahorga grew his neck to eel-like length and his fangs into snapping jaws, and he bit savagely at the smiling face of his foe. She turned her head away and forced his own arm up into the way of his jawssuch strength! He darted his head down and sank his fangs deep into her left shoulder and breast.
Now the screaming would start, and she'd plead for mercy . . . but no. This Storm woman hissed in pain but did not shriek or collapse. He bit deeply again, and twisted his head to tear a great gobbet of flesh free. Her blood fountained over them both, running freely to the flagstones, and he raised his head to roar exultantly at the high, glittering stars.
Then he felt pain such as he'd never felt before, greater than the fire spells that had scarred him in his youth. He writhed helplessly in his torment. Silver flames licked along her spilled blood, fire the same hue as her silvery hair, blazing up into a pillar nowand he was burning with it!
It was in pain and despair that Ahorga of the Malaugrym roared, struggling to break free of her grip, and failing. He stared once into her face, and saw that her eyes were two silver flames, too.
"Nooo!" he screamed. "Mercy!"
"I shall give you, Ahorga, the same mercy you gave to
ED GREENWOOD
Lord Thael Sembergelt," was the calm response. "The same mercy Malaugrym always afford mere mortals ... none. This is a cleaner death than you deserve." The silver flames roared up to claim him.
When the body was a burnt husk, Storm cast it down atop the body of the Malaugrym Lunquar, and watched them both blaze. The flagstones beneath them cracked and shivered with the heat, and more than one of the servants fainted away, torches toppling to the terrace to gutter out. Storm stood motionless above the pyre until ashes were all that remained of the two shapeshifters.
She looked up, half-naked, front and back in bleeding ruin. Oburglan and the seneschal, Hawklan, gazed white-faced at her, swords in their hands.
"Lady," Hawklan asked, "what are you?"
"One of Mystra's Chosen," Storm answered him wearily. "These were two fell shapeshifters; the real Thael Sembergelt and Dathtor Vaeldeir are dead."
The seneschal licked his lips and asked, "Was that, then, Mystra's silver fire?"
Storm smiled wanly. "It was . . . pray that you never see its like again."
"Lady," Oburglan asked, his voice husky with fear, "are you . . . will you be all right?"
"I will be fine soon enough, Lord Sembergelt," Storm said to him. "I grieve for your uncle. I would have liked to come to know him well."
Tears spilled from both their eyes, then, but Obur-glan's trembling lips shaped the wondering words, "Lord Sembergelt? You called me ..."
One bloody hand came up to trace his chin. He did not raise his blade or flinch away. "You are Lord Sembergelt now," Storm said to him, "and if ever you need comfort or guidance or the aid of Those Who Harp, come to meor tell any Harper." A trace of a smile came to her lips. "We even help spoiled Sembian lords." She stepped forward and kissed him.
His face was covered with her blood as she drew
228
ALL SHADOWS FLED
back, but his eyes shone with a new light through the tears.
"Lady," the seneschal said haltingly, stepping forward, "if there is anything we can do ... any aid we can render..." His eyes fell to her wounds, then rose again to her face.
Storm shook her head. "My thanks for your offer, noble Hawklan, but no. Ill be fine. I'll be even better if I know your new lord enjoys the same loving guidance you gave his uncle."
"Lady," Hawklan said quietly, "it shall be so. If you'll permit me?"
And he took her hand, went to his knee, and kissed her bloody fingertips.
Storm smiled at him. "As I bid Oburglan, so also I ask you: Call on me if there is need."
She stepped back from them, looked around at Low Rythryn Towers and the ragged circle of torches, and shook her head.
"One good thing has come of this, at least," she told the two weeping men. "Lord Thael lies where he would have wished: buried in his garden." She smiled at them again, then turned away. It was a long walk back to Shadowdaleand she'd need all that time to heal herself.
229
, See Mach-and Tay To SciRoioe
In a place of shifting shadows, behind hidden doors, in the heart of the ancient castle of the Malaugrym, was a light. The bright, glowing eye of a scrying portal floated in the murk, reflected from the tentacled face of a watchful figure bent over it ... a figure whose skin was as dark and ever-shifting as the sliding shadows themselves.
His eyes, however, were two bright flames, and the doomstars winked brightly as they spun endlessly about his wrist. He stretched, watched them dim momentarily as they passed through a dark drift of shadow, sighed, and murmured, "Fools . . . this house is breeding fools by the score. Lunquar and Ahorga both goneand they deserved it."
He turned again to the light, watching the wounded Storm walk through a merchant camp and wave away someone who rose to offer aid. Studying her kind, weary smile, he sighed again and passed his hand across the portal.
It rippled, then lit with tongues of leaping fire: a bonfire, this time. Steel flashed back its light as three figures in leather armor battled with twice as many men in black. They fought in a clearingthe camp of the
ALL SHADOWS FLED
black-armored onesand the three in leather were winning. As he watched, a black-armored figure took a blade in the face and fell back into the fire, throwing out a shower of sparks. Small wonder; if those three could fight their way alive out of the Castle of Shadows and leave more than a score of the blood of Malaug dead behind them, a few Zhentilar armsmen should prove no trouble for them at all.
Wearing a smile that did not mean he was amused, the figure let his scrying portal fade away, stood up, and melted into the shadows. It was time to do what had to be done.
Eaerun, northwest Elven Court woods, Flamerule 26
"How many?"
"Seven Zhentilar and one ore," Belkram said, counting on his fingers. "Oh, and that snake."
"Oh, yesmustn't forget the snake!" Sylune said merrily. She turned to grin at Sharantyr. They rolled their eyes in unison.
"I," Itharr said triumphantly, "stand ahead of you. My valiant blade has accounted for eleven Zhent deserters, one brigand, and three fingers off the left hand of another brigand!"
"Men will be boys," Sharantyr murmured. A ghostly giggle answered her from just ahead of her left cheek. She winced; Sylune had become invisible again.
They were tired, filthy, footsoregods, how did anyone stay in armor more than a day? The itching, to say nothing of the small things crawling in their matted hair. They hadn't expected the last four Zhents, and had wasted a day chasing thema day more than their rations. Empty bellies were groaning now, too.
All in all, it had been a successful patrol.
They trudged thankfully past the familiar beauty of
ED GREENWOOD
Harpers' Hill. Passing it meant warm baths and familiar beds were only paces away.
"Daylight!" Itharr broke into a trot.
Sharantyr gritted her teeth and managed a sprint, her raw joints and blistered feet shrieking in protest. Catching up to Itharr a bare three paces from Treesedge, she snarled, "Walk across someone's crops, and they'll kill you! We go that way until we strike the road!"
She pointed, and Itharr gave her a dirty look. He sighed and began to trudge in the indicated direction. Tou never spared two breaths about turnips before!"
"I was never hungry enough to eat raw turnips before!" Sharantyr snarled back at him.
Behind them, Belkram chuckled wearily and waved a hand. "Lead on, the pair of you . . . and talk to me of roast goose, and gravy and old ale ... ham and dressed pheasant and stuffed snakenot gods-be-kissed turnipsr
"Ye gods!" Itharr cried, slapping his forehead. "The snake! You forgot to bring the snake!" He turned reproachful eyes on Belkram. "We could've eaten that snake!"
"No," Belkram corrected, "You could've eaten that snake. I saw all the human skulls in its lair."
"Death, death, death," Sharantyr muttered. "Is that all adventurers talk about?"
Belkram gave her a look. "Well, let's seethere are other topics: butchering monsters for the stew pot, burning helpless villages, pillage, ra"
"Death it is," Sharantyr said firmly. "Only a few hundred more paces now. Talk to me of death."
"Only a few hundred more paces?" Itharr gasped. "Good! Go and make them for me, so I can fall asleep right. . . here. . . ."
"Oh no, you don't," Sharantyr said, pulling hard on his hair as he sagged. "Come onI'm sure that tree wants to grow to reach the light, and it can't if you're
ALL SHADOWS FLED
draped all over it, snoring like a flatulent bull! Mover
"Yes, sir!" Itharr responded sarcastically, moving smartly forward for all of three paces before sinking into a weary walk once more,
"Gods above preserve me," Sharantyr said through clenched teeth. "Men!"
"Oh, dear," Belkram said to Itharr. "She's noticed! I guess that means we have to go way off into the bushes, now, whenever we have to ..."
"What she hasn't noticed," Itharr retorted, stumbling in the weariness of utter exhaustion, "is that the gods aren't above anymorethat's what this whole trouble's about... as Elminster said."
"Good old Elminster," Belkram said sadly, putting one foot in front of the other and almost falling out into the road.
"Well, granted I look bad this morning," growled the wispy-bearded guard who caught hold of his shoulder to steady him, "but I'm sure I don't look that bad. No, El-minster's dead, friend . . . and so will ye be if ye don't convince me of thy rightful loyaltyand fast."
He gulped as the ghostly head of the Witch of Shadowdale came floating out of the trees to hang in front of him. "Well met, Guthtar," she said softly. "You remember me, do you not?"
"A-Aye, Lady," the guard stammered as Itharr and Sharantyr came out of the trees. "And her, too!" The six guards behind him fell back to get weapon room, eyeing all these sudden arrivals warily.
"Aye," Sylune said dryly. "I've noticed you never forget a fair-looking female. You are going to let Lord Mourngrym's patrol pass, aren't you?"
"Of course, Lady! Uh, begging thy pardons, sirs and Ladyuh, Lady and Lady . . . ahoh, dungr
"And a pleasant good morning to you, too, Guthtar," Sylun6 said with a smile, floating serenely past the sputtering guard. Belkram met Guthtar's eyes, spread his hands in silent commiseration, and followed. Itharr
233
ED GREENWOOD
and Sharantyr trudged along in Belkram's wake, leaning on each other.
"Oh, gods," the lady ranger yawned. At a weary stagger, she neared the crossroads. "We must never let ourselves get this tired again!"
"I tried to tell those last four Zhents that," Belkram told her, "I really did! But they just kept on snarling and waving swords at us, and, well. . . ."
"Back from patrol, I see," Hammerhand Bucko called cheerfully from his doorway. They waved at himthe gesture almost made Itharr fall overand went on, not daring to stop now for fear of collapse.
"Lhaeo? Lhaeo!" Sylune called, her head dancing up and down in the air to snare the scribe's attention. "Lhaeo!"
Elminster's scribe was a morose figure, trudging along every bit as wearily as they were walking. He looked up at Sylune's call, brightening visibly. "Well met, friends!"
"Itharr, give my stone to Lhaeo, will you?" Sylune floated close to the scribe's head and asked him, "Could you take me to Storm, please, good scribe? We have much to talk about."
Lhaeo blinked at her as Itharr handed him the stone. "Of course, Lady'tis where I'm headed." He turned his head to look at the unshaven ranger, and said, "You folks look tired."
"No, really? And I spent all morning doing my hair!" Itharr told him with weary sarcasm. He set off grimly toward the tower.
"Fare you well, Lhaeo," Sharantyr added.
The scribe smiled wanly and waved. The three rangers nodded wearily to him and walked the last stretch of road to the Twisted Tower.
"Ohh, I'm so tired!" Sharantyr wailed. "And my feet hurt so muchr
"At least you've still got feet," Belkram said darkly. "Mine wore off about ten hours back."
254
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Try scratching all your itches," Itharr said without turning. "It helps to keep you awake."
"Could we ride on patrol next time?" Shar asked as they turned up the tower path.
'Through all those trees? We'd be wanting some eel-horses, rd guess," said Belkram.
"Just a few more steps, friends," Itharr mumbled. "Just a few more steps . . ."
Then he noticed the row of gleaming breastplates and crossed forearms blocking their way. His eyes traveled up to the hard faces above them, but he recognized no one. Seven guards he'd never seen before were ranged across the open doorway of the Tower of Ashaba. They wore splendid chased armor and light helms in the hot summer sun, and their hairy forearms and corded thighs glistened with sweat. They were not moving aside.
"Stand aside, friends," Itharr said wearily, "before we fall over."
"And who are you three?" the centermost guard asked coolly. "Travelers generally stay at the Old Skull Innat the crossroads, down there. Beggars had best go to the temples . . . there's a house of Tymora just across the river, there."
As he'd spoken, Belkram and Sharantyr had straggled up to face the guards. Shar sighed and let her head sink into her hands. No. No, not now. Her knees sagged, and Belkram put his arms around her to hold her up, swaying himself.
"We have chambers awaiting us in the tower behind you," Itharr said quietly, taking two steps to the right so he could lean on the nearest hitching post.
"Oh? How so? Are you, then, lords and ladies of Shadowdale?"
"She is," Itharr said, waving a hand. "The Lady Sharantyr."
"Sharantyr? It's not a name known to me," the guard-captain said jovially. "Any of you heard of a Sharantyr,
ED GREENWOOD
lads? Eh?"
There was a general chorus of chuckled nays. Itharr regarded them with dull eyes. "You're all new hires, aren't you?"
"Thurbal engaged us some days ago," the guardcap-tain said a trifle stiffly. "We hail from Westgate."
"Belgard's boys?" Belgard was a retired mercenary whose school turned out guards known for their efficient cruelty and alertness; his graduates had gained swift popularity among the merchants of Sembia, and generally cost a client food, accommodation, armor, and over five silver pieces a day.
"Yes," the guardcaptain said shortly, "and we've been hired to keep brigands and ZhentiJar out of this tower, see? So clear off, all of younow!"
The three bedraggled figures in leather made no move. A light, rhythmic sound came from the female among themthe sound of snoring.
One of the guards snorted in amusement, and stepped forward. He bore a long baton in his hand, and used it to rap Sharantyr none too gently on the shoulder. "Hey! Wake up and clear off! You've heard the order. Now go!"
"Stand back, friend," Belkram suggested gently, "or I'll awaken enough to grow annoyed."
The guard cocked his head to one side, hands on hips. "Oh you will, will you?" he said sarcastically. "I quaver at the prospect!"
"Are you lot going to stand aside?" Itharr said. "We'd very much like to report in to Mourngrym."
"Lord Mourngrym's out riding the northern reaches," the guardcaptain told him silkily, "as all in Shadowdale know. I don't think you're anything more than brigands looking for a chance to slip inside. If you don't move on, it's brigands' chains youll be feeling."
"In one of the cells where we can lie down?" Sharantyr asked sleepily.
"No," the guardcaptain said with a cruel grin, "our or-
An SHADOWS FLED
ders are to hang brigands from the dangle-bars."
"We're not brigands," Belkram said sourly, dragging Sharantyr to the hitching post on the other side of the path and draping her over it, "and you'd do well to let us into Hie tower!"
"We're not hired to do well," the guardcaptain said. "We're hired to follow orders. You're not getting past, and you've spent enough of our time. We're supposed to watch who passes on the road, not waste words with ruffians on our doorstep. So get you gone, now, or there'll be trouble."
"There will indeed," Itharr said, from his post.
The guardcaptain looked at him coldly, then turned his head back to catch the eyes of the guard with the baton, who stood menacingly close to Belkram, and said pleasantly, "Aldus, pray dispose of these petty annoyances."
"Gladly, Captain," Aldus replied, raising his baton and reaching forward to take Belkram by the throat.
"Have a care, Aldus," Belkram said softly to him, "that's my Harper pin you're hauling on."
"So?"
"A Harper pin should mean something to you, Aldus."
"Oh, aye." The guard stepped back and turned to the guardcaptain. "This one's stolen a Harper pin, Captain!"
"Hit him and take it, then!"
"Gladly, Captain!" Aldus spun around and brought his baton around in a wicked arc. Belkram stumbled back with inches to spare, and the guard rushed forward, pulling his baton back for another blow.
It never landed. As he charged forward, a slim hand rose from the post, caught hold of his arm, and pulled. Aldus's head rammed the post with all the strength of his charge, and Sharantyr stepped back, turned to survey the line of guards witheringly, and asked, "Who's next, dolts?"
There came a roar of anger, and five men started forward. "Hold hard!" their captain roared out, but none of them paid him heed.
+ 237 +
ED GREENWOOD
Two reached the Lady of Shadowdale first, batons outand she dropped to the path and flung herself at their boots. They went over her with a crash.
The third man in snarled a curse and kicked at her; Shar grabbed the boot flashing past her and hauled sharply upward. With a ground-shaking crash, the man fell on his rear. Then the batons of the fourth and fifth were raining down on herfor a few instants, before Belkram hit them from one side and Itharr from the other, and two helmed heads rang together.
Itharr fell on his knees atop the groaning third guard. The man emitted a sort of strangled whistle and thrashed around, struggling for breath enough to shout out his pain. Itharr rolled away, letting the senseless fourth and fifth guards fall on him.
The guardcaptain started forward hesitantly, seeing only two of his men left. They were rising with murder on their faces and swords in their hands.
Shar got to her own feet in time to face them, her hands emptybut by then Belkram had smashed aside the captain's hastily drawn blade and run the man up against the lintel, hands on his throat.
"Call your men off attacking the Lady of Shadow-dale," the Harper snarled at him as they strained eyeball to eyeball, "or so help me I'll tear your throat out!" Iron fingers dug deep into the man's flesh to back up those words, then loosened enough to let the man whimper.
"Aid!" he called out in a raw voice. "An attack!"
Disgusted, Belkram bounced the man's head forcefully off the stones. The captain's eyes rolled up for a brief instant before he slid to the ground, but the Harper was already snatching the captain's blade out of his hands and whirling around.
The retreating Shar had fallen back over the tangled trio of unconscious guards, and Itharr was crouched over her, trying to ward off two jabbing blades with a pair of batons he'd snatched up.
238
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Belkram snarled an oath and charged around the pile of bodies. He lunged at the two guards, waving his captured blade. They turned to meet him and fell back to force him to come between them. Belkram obliged, swerving at the last instant to bind the blade of one with his own. He grabbed the man by the armpit, swung him around into the path of the other guard's blade, and with his free hand smashed the man across the throat.
Gagging, the man fell. Belkram clubbed the back of his helm and sprang back.
The last guard's blade flashed through the leathers at Belkram's wrist, and the stolen sword spun away from the Harper's numbed fingers. The guard's face widened into an unpleasant grin. He sidled a foot or so, still smiling, as a stool Itharr had snatched up from inside the door struck the side of his head and carried him a pace to the south . . . into the realm of dreams.
The two Harpers looked wearily at each other, went to pick up Shar from the tangle of sprawled bodies, and trudged into the tower.
They'd almost reached the end of the long central passage when Shaerl and Thurbal, captain-of-arms of the Twisted Tower, strode briskly across it. The Lady of Shadowdale was speaking. "Well, I don't think those new men are trained eno"
"I couldn't agree more," Belkram snarled, cradling Sharantyr's head against his shoulder.
"Aye," Itharr agreed, casting a guard's sword to the tiles at Thurbal's feet. "Next time you hire seven dolts from Belgard, be sure he remembers to send their brains along with them!"
Thurbal gaped at the three of them, but Shaerl turned to her captain-of-arms and snapped, "Get fresh guards for the doorsand send all the servants you can find here, as fast as they can move!"
She guided the three rangers to a bench and rang the nearest gong furiously. To the first servant who
ED GREENWOOD
appeared, she snapped, "Send everyone here at once! Then fill my lord's baththe new big one, and mind the water's hot! Get help, but do it fast!"
To the second she snarled, "Three carry-chairs, and men to bear them, back here as fast as you're able!"
Then she turned her head as the kitchen door opened. Turk? Bring whatever you have roastingand all the breads and cheeses you can lay hands on, and the best wine you can getto my lord's chamber at once!"
"Impressive," Belkram murmured to her just before he fell asleep.
"Indeed," Shaerl told him gently. She looked down the hall to the doors, where armsmen were carrying in seven limp armored forms under Thurbal's coldly furious eye.
Itharr woke once on the stairs, swaying in his chair to murmur, "Killed a lot of Zhents for you . . ."
"Eat first," Shaerl told him, guiding the chair across the parlor. "We'll talk later."
"Bathe first," Sharantyr announced firmly.
"Nay, Lady," one of the armsmen said gently as he set her chair down. "For ye, it's sleep first." The lady ranger's head lolled to one side as she began to gently snore; she heard him only in her dreams.
"Get this armor off them," Shaerl told the armsman, unbuckling and tugging at Sharantyr's body for all she was worth.
"Haste or care, Lady?"
"Care for them . . . haste otherwise," she replied briskly, hurling a vambrace across the room. It struck the far wall with a crash that made a serving girl winceand when the armsmen enthusiastically followed Shaerl's example, the maid covered her ears and fled. The air quickly filled with flying pieces of armor.
Amid the clangor, puffing relays of servants speedily filled the gigantic copper tub. Shaerl herself added the soap and wyverntail oil, then turned back to the arms-
4-24O +
ALL SHADOWS FLED
men. "Get some rope," she ordered the nearest one. "I don't want them drowning."
"Aye, Lady."
Striding to her wardrobe, Shaerl snatched the doors open and took the first three garments off their pegs without looking. Sliding them under the arms of each rangergods, the reek!and across their chests, she flipped the ends of the three gowns up for the armsmen to tie the ropes to, noticed that one garment was a favorite of hers, shrugged, and began to disrobe.
An armsman hovering uncertainly nearby gulped, looked away, and a sash slapped into him. He caught it reflexively, then looked up to see his Lady's gown coming his way, mastered a calm expression as he fielded it, and stepped forward to take the rest as they were offered.
The Lady Shaerl was stepping unconcernedly into the hot depths of the tub as the other armsmen rushed back in with coils of rope, goggled at her for an instant, and wisely set about their task without comment or delay.
"More soap!" Shaerl ordered briskly as servants scurried, "and that scratcher!"
The wooden back scratcher was handed to her, and she set to work. Lice floated away almost immediately atop the scummy water. "Bethra," she said, without looking up, "Draw Lady Sharantyr's hair out over the edge, put a bowl under it, and start washing! Use my seafoam ointment!"
So it was that when Purk bustled up at the head of a procession bringing platters of hot fowl from the kitchens, he found three rangers, grimy and snoring, slumped over asleep in the huge bath, and the lady of the tower in their midst, as bare as the day she was born, scrubbing and rinsing for all she was worth.
"A feast is served, my lady," he announced with quiet dignityand was most startled a moment later when Shaerl looked up at him through her dripping hair and snapped, "Well, off with your clothes and get in, Purk!
ED GREENWOOD
Wake them up and feed themthe others can pass you the platters as you need them! And have wine ready so that no one chokesah, gods, give a bottle here first! This is thirsty work!"
A grinning kitchen-boy uncorked a bottle and handed it to his lady, who winked at him and said, "You're small enough! Pick up a brush, off with those, and get in here!" She took a swig of wine, gasped in satisfaction, looked at one of the armsmen, and snapped, "More hot water!"
Hastening down the stairs to obey, the armsman met one of his fellows hastening the other way with a basin slopping in his hands. The first said, "The lady's passion for bathing is crazed! Have they all washed their wits out of their heads in Cormyr? What's wrong with just going down to the millpond when your stink starts to drive the dogs away?"
The other shrugged. "Overcrowding?" he jested innocently, and went on up the stairs, redoubling his speed as they heard the faint but imperious call:
"Where's that water?"
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 26
Bralatar and Lorgyn stepped back into the privy chamber of the Tower of Mortoth and exchanged coldly triumphant smiles. "Worked perfectly," Bralatar announced, setting down his chest. It clinked.
Lorgyn raised an eyebrow at the sound. "7 went back for my wand and some favorite food ... I thought you were getting your best spells"
Bralatar raised a decanter into view. "And some real wine, to celebrate!"
Lorgyn chuckled and set down his own coffer to study the four spread-eagled, motionless figures hanging in the webwork of cold fire.
+ 242
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Hmm ... see? It drains the mage first," he said, indicating the shrunken, nearly skeletal body of Mortoth the Mighty.
"Is that because we put him in it first, do you think, or because he wields the most magic?"
Lorgyn shrugged. "We'll have to gather some more wizards to see . . . and we'll need more, anyway, to keep this open. If these apprentices here don't work properly or hold enough life-force, we could be stranded here after just one more back-and-forth trip."
"Plenty of time to go mage-gathering after we've mastered a little more magic and had some fun," Bralatar said, picking up the chest again and starting toward the door.
He stopped and turned, indicating the female apprentice with a jerk of his head. Irendue stared endlessly and sightlessly at the privy wall, her mouth agape. "Shall we free her for a little dalliance tonight?"
"I don't know if that's such a wise idea," Lorgyn said with a frown. "I thought of that myselfshe could show us the magic of this place, for one thingbut then I thought of the chance it would give her to turn some spell we don't know about against us. There're so many enchantments in this place, one overlaid atop another, that I can't see any way to keep clear of them all."
"We still have to find a way out past those things in the moat," Bralatar pointed out, "and the stone golem, and the cat on the lawn, to say nothing of whatever servants he's got in the house, and any magic they can call on! I think we've no choice but to pull this one out of the thrall and question her."
"What's to stop her hurling a dozen spells at us the moment her wits're her own?"
Bralatar frowned. "Strip her to take away any magic she carries, tie her hands together to stop her casting spells, and with the same rope hang her down the privy shaft. Dangle her just above the water, where we can threaten her with the things in the moat. Then each of
+ 245 +
ED GREENWOOD
us stretch a tentacle down there with her; mine with an eye to watch her closelyso she knows we're seeing what she doesand yours to hold your wand trained right on her!"
Lorgyn thought about it, then began to smile slowly. He looked over at the unseeing female apprentice and said, "First, we'll have to find some rope ..."
Shadowdale, Flamerule 27
"Shadowdale ... a fitting name indeed," Argast said, peering through the leaves of the last tree on the west bank of the river Ashaba. "Where the Great Foe lived," he mused, "and so many of our kin died. Well conquer this place first."
"And rule it as a slave farm, anon," Amdramnar agreed, looking across the water at the twisted spire of the Tower of Ashaba. "Pretty, this ... all these trees, and the water...."
Argast looked at him. "That's not what you said when we were in the swamp."
Amdramnar snarled. "If I hadn't shifted fast enough, I'd be dead now. What was that?"
" 'Quicksand,' they call it. Didn't you hear the nice man who hauled me out?"
"Not until he screamed when you started to eat him," Amdramnar replied archly. "I was too busy washing the mud off... I can feel grit inside me, even now!"
"We only lost a day," Argast said. "Should we cross the river here?"
Amdramnar shook his head, putting an entire day of floundering through the mud-choked swamp west of them out of his mind . . . hopefully forever. "Let's work our way around and come in from the east. That man I talked to most of the night"
"Before you ate him," Argast reminded, just as
ALL SHADOWS FLEO
archly.
"was from Hillsfar. I can talk as he did, and say the same things about Great Lord Maalthiir and the cursed Zhents and all that. We have to talk our way past guards no matter how we get in."
"Why not just turn to eels and swim down to the millpond? Up onto the bank, take human shape, and"
"Get challenged by the first guards we meet, or a wench in the tavern, or a shopkeeper," Amdramnar finished the sentence for him. "I want to talk to someone, to confirm that Elminster's dead . . . and this Hillsfar place is east of here, so we'd best be coming from the east."
"And doing what?"
"Going to ask Elminsterabout some strange shapeshifting beings our master Dundifolus of the Sixteen Unlit Black Candles saw. He'd come himself, but they changed both his feet into fish fins, and he hasn't yet managed to reverse the strange enchantment!"
Argast smirked. "You expect them to believe that?"
"Ill tone it down . . . but we should ask for Elminster, and say we've been sent by some mage. How will they know we aren't telling the truth? Their magics can't read the minds of any of the blood of Malaug!"
Argast nodded slowly. "Your plans are sound. Lead on."
And so it was, not long after, that two footsore wizard's servants from Hillsfar trudged into Shadowdale along the Voonlar roadand passed by three leather-armored folk who were quietly taking a woodcutter's trail out of the dale due east into Myth Drannor. The three rangers were refreshed and reprovisioned after a day-long sleep and a bath personally administered by Lady Shaerl of Shadowdale. With heavy packs on their hacks, they were setting out on another patrol and wondering when they'd meet with lurking Malaugrym. By the humor of the gods, neither band saw the other.
ED GREENWOOD
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 27
"M-Mercy," Irendue sobbed as they hauled her up through the privy hole she'd sat above so many times before, holding her bound wrists back behind her, over her head, so that she could barely keep her balance. "Mercy!"
Bralatar smiled at her as his tentacles took her by the throat and around both elbows, holding her so tightly she could barely breathe through her aching throat. Her eyes were large and dark in terror as Lorgyn's tentacles untied the ropes that cut into her wrists. He thrust her back, back once more into the cold embrace of the flames that did not burn. . ..
Irendue's body trembled as the spell energy raced through it, and she whimpered once before the surging energy drove away her wits once more. "You see?" Bralatar told her as the light in her eyes slowly died, "you are untouched. This is mercy,"
He chuckled coldly while Lorgyn arranged the apprentice's limbs apart as they had been earlier. The endless hum of the spell flames grew stable once more.
"The gate is unharmed," he said at last. The two Malaugrym exchanged a smile and went to the study, snaking out tentacles ahead of them to uncork the wine and bring out some roast shadowbeast.
"Profitable, that," Bralatar said, flopping down in an old armchair that until recently had been the exclusive preserve of Mortoth, and raising one of Mortoth's best glasses in salute to Lorgyn. "The wench certainly knows how to talk with a wand nearly down her gullet."
"More to the point, she's seen Faerun shrewdly, and knows what lies behind what can be readily seen," Lorgyn replied, sipping at his own glass.
"Ah," Bralatar said slyly, "do I hear the tones of a Shadowmaster looking for a mate?"
Lorgyn looked at him levelly. "No," he replied, "you do
ALL SHADOWS FLED
not. I merely meant that what she knows makes her too valuable for us to destroy. How else would we have found out all that about the Realms and the wizards in less than a day?"
Bralatar nodded, levity gone. "You speak truth . . . she yielded much to us, and swiftly. Enough for me to conclude we'd best avoid Thay, the islands Lantan and Nimbral, and the slave keepersCalimshan, that was the nameuntil we know a lot more about Faerun. These Red Wizards'11 bear a lot of watching. They could be almost as much trouble as Elminster was. The Zhen-tarim, on the other hand, seem more persistent than competent. Would you say that sums up what she said?"
Lorgyn nodded. "I would . . . and so long as we keep these things in mind, and keep humans from realizing that there are shapeshifters among them, nothing and no one stands between us and our ruling any part of Faerun that we please. You'll take your preferred lands, and I'll take mine."
"I want to see those lands for myself first," Bralatar replied as they shared a grin. "And what better way than to have some real fun hunting this time, across half Faerun!"
"Chasing down wizards?"
"Chasing down and slaughtering," Bralatar said with a sudden flame in his eyes, "any humans we fancy."
247
ALL SHADOWS FLED
1(5 Shadoofs So Shacp
Only the eyes of the two guards moved to follow him as Lord Mourngrym of Shadowdale strode past the door of the forecourt, heading for the kitchens. He'd come straight in from a patrol in the northern reaches of the dale, and there was fresh bloodZhent bloodon his mud-spattered armor. He was bareheaded and unshaven, and his reddened, sunken eyes told of little sleep and hard going.
"Belmer!" he called back, turning, as he went on. "Get something hot from the kitchens, and a bottle of zzar, and take it to the Old Skull as quick as you can. A lady guest is giving birth, and the father needs a good meal and a walk with someone who's been a father not long pastso the gods've chosen you!"
"Aye, Lord," Belmer said with a smile, and left his post just inside the front doors to rush down the hall. Guthtar, who'd heard the exchange, was already moving to take his place.
Mourngrym stuck his head through the kitchen door, dipped a flagon into the stew pot, brought it out dripping, put a towel underneath it, and turned back down the hall, armor rattling in his haste.
"That too, Lord?" Belmer asked, hesitating.
"No, this is my evenfeast," Mourngrym told him with a grin. "Sylune tells me the audience chamber is full of
folk with troubles, so Til be eating on the throne again. Just tell the cooks to send someone to the chamber a little later on to see if any of the supplicants are in need of something hot to eat."
Belmer turned pale at the mention of the Witch of Shadowdale, and muttered some prayer or other under his breath as he went into the steam-filled, noisy, bustling kitchens.
For a moment, Mourngrym stopped beside Guthtar with the steaming flagon in his hand. "Good Guthtar tell Thurbal from me that I want all of you men to do half shifts until I order otherwise. You've been done out of a lot of sleep, and it's time someone gave some back to you."
The normally terse Guthtar practically bounded into a salute. "Aye, my lordr he said.
Mourngrym chuckled and clapped him on the shoulder. "I thought you'd find those orders rode easier than most." He turned to the forecourt and nodded to his two new guards as he stepped between them. They stiffened in salute.
When the double doors of the audience chamber boomed closed and they heard the guards within thunk their spears on the stone floor, Argast turned his head to be sure the forecourt was now empty. Finding it so, he said to Amdramnar, "In spite of myself, I begin to respect this young lordling. If one is to be a weakling, why not go all the way and serve the people rather than commanding them?"
Amdramnar nodded. "I like him, toobut 'tis too early to tell. . . until we can spend a session or two in there, hearing him sit in judgment."
They fell hastily silent as Guthtar moved closer to open the door for the departing Belmer. Though they'd slain two of the newly hired Westgate men and taken their shapes, the two Malaugrym hadn't had a chance to hear either of their victims speakingin a sober state, at leastand didn't want anyone to overhear
+ 249 +
ED GREENWOOD
them now and think the speech of Aunsible and Haratch had suddenly and curiously changed.
Belmer went out of the tower, and a magnificently robed, bearded man of middling years came in, with the Lady Shaerl on his arm. The holy hammer of Tyr, worked in silver, rode on a heavy chain around his neck. "I find Shadowdale dispirited for the first time since the Knights of Myth Drannor rode into it for their first time," he was saying in a rich, sonorous voice, "and that is ill. Have you had much trouble in this time of strife?"
"We are only days away from turning back the armies of Zhentil Keep, good justicar," Shaerl said gently, "a victory that cost us greatly. The Witch-Queen of Aglarond"
The two guards clearly heard the priest's hiss of indrawn breath as he was turning to walk between them at that moment. He looked awed.
"tells us that the Zhent troops were led by the god Bane himself. In the fight against him, the temple of Lathander, which formerly stood across the way, was destroyed, along with the archmage Elminster and, some have testified under oath, the goddess Mystra, herself."
The priest came to an abrupt halt. "You credit this to be true?" he asked, his voice incredulous.
"I do, holy lord, and can produce witnesses whose testimony will, I know, impress you," Shaerl said firmly.
The priest waved a dismissive hand. "Well enough, so let us grant that the tales are true. Bane, Mystra, and Elminster all destroyed along with that temple over there." He drew a deep breath, shook his head, and bid gruffly, "Say on."
"Over half of our soldiers fell in defending the dale," Shaerl told him, "and are now pyre ashes; scarce a farm in this dale did not lose someone. Moreover, magic has gone wild here, and Storm Silverhand, the Bard of Shadowdale, has been missing for five days."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
The priest suddenly looked very old, and felt behind him for the bench he knew was there. Shaerl smoothly guided him to it, keeping hold of his hand as the justicar of Tyr sank down onto the bench and whispered hoarsely, "Storm. I ... we were very close, once. I'd hoped to see her this night, after my audience with the younwith your Mourngrym."
Shaerl patted his arm. "She told us she was looking forward to your visit, because you had been so noble to her," she said softly. "She spoke of your valor and kindness."
For just a moment, the proud priest looked like a young boya young boy on the verge of tears. "She did?" he asked, his voice rising in wonder.
"Yes," Shaerl said, "and I've never known her judgment to be wrong yet. I feel as if you are an old friend."
Argast leaned a trifle closer to Amdramnar and muttered, "She's smooth, this one."
Amdramnar agreed with the slightest of nods, but just then the doors between the audience chamber and the forecourt scraped open and three farm folk came out. "The gods bless him!" the stout old woman in the forefront was saying.
"If he keeps his promise," her hired hand said doubtfully as they went out, not even seeing the two people on the bench.
The old woman turned and poked out a bony finger. "Now ye list and learn, Thurton! If there's one thing this young lord of ours does, it's keep his word! When my man, Undlejack, was still alive, he won a hand of card's off Mourngrym, playin' the night away at the Old Skull, and the lord asked him his price. ... A new roof, my man says, as bold as anything'cuz that's what we needed, in truthan' the next day, gods be blowed if the lord doesn't show up with half a dozen guards, n' do the roof right then! The lord himself, up on our cottage, sweatin' along with the rest of 'em! And when he's done, he asks if we want the fence set straight, seein' as
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
they're here . . . an' up comes a cart, after, when we're talkin'and out of it he serves us a feast, an' the neighbors what come to watch, too! Tells us it's no more'n we deserve!"
She turned and marched out of the forecourt, then pivoted back to face the astonished Thurton. "Ye find me another lord anywhere as does that for mean' others what ain't high and mighty, an' can't do him anything great in return! Ye'll be lookin' from the Sword Coast to the weird lands past Thay, an' not be findin' one, neither!"
Another two dalefolk strode out, one of them weeping, and the other walking awkwardly beside her. "Now, Nanhe can't raise to life someone he can't find! He did say he'd walk you around those laid out in the temple for burial, to see if we can find him. No one could do more."
The next person to come to the door was Mourngrym, his face pinched with sorrow. Shaerl leapt up and threw her arms around him. "My love," she said in a low, tender voice as their arms tightened around each other. He kissed her gently, as if they were alone in the room, before lifting his head and saying, "Shaerl, ask Thurbal to pass the word. No one's seen Aglyn's grandsire since the battle, and Nan's beside herself not knowing. If anyone . .."
Mourngrym's gaze fell upon the priest of Tyr, waiting patiently to be introduced, and his face lit up. "Most Holy Arbeth! Be welcome, please, in Shadowdale! I'm sorry I didn't see you at once! Have you eaten?"
"If we could talk for just a few breaths, Lord Mourngrym, I'd be delighted to dine with you and your beautiful lady. I'd hoped also to meet the Lady Storm, but I hear she's . . . not to be found."
"That is so, I fear," Mourngrym said, "but come in, and we'll talk, the three of usoh, yes: my lady and I rule as one." The priest's eyebrows were still raised as the doors of the audience chamber swung shut behind
the three of them.
"He's a good ruler," Amdramnar said grudgingly.
"All the better for us, then," Argast said. "Let him manage our cattle until we're ready to rule here."
"Our foes the three bold rangers seem to have just departed on patrol... do we chase after them?"
"No, let them go. They'll return to usand then we'll feed."
"Eat them?"
"YesI mean to eat them alive, limb by limb, slowly, while they plead. Well use our everfire wand to seal the joints and keep them living. They may last several days."
"And then?"
Then we'll reveal ourselves, and start on the rest of these cattle."
They had just time to fall silent and look as if they'd been that way for some time when a tall, silver-haired figure strode through the front doors, exchanged a salute, a wink, and a blown kiss that left old Guthtar blushing, turned into the forecourt, and strode to the audience chamber doors.
Argast turned. "Ah, my La"
"Hist!" Amdramnar and Guthtar said together, reaching to silence him. Storm turned, gave them all a cheery wave, and flung the doors wide.
That's Lady Storm!" Guthtar snarled in a whisper. "Never stop her going anywhere!" By common accord, the three guards had moved hurriedly to look through the closing doorsin time to see Storm, with a joyous laugh, sweep the justicar of Tyr up into the air as if he was a boy, then bring him down to her lips.
"Ye gods," Argast said, for Guthtar's benefit. "Guarding folk around here's going to be a lot more interesting than I'd dared hope!"
"A lot more fun, too," Guthtar whispered hoarsely, and trotted back to his post.
The two Malaugrym exchanged glances. These folk of
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Faerun seemed to care for each other a lot more than any of the blood of Malaug ever had . . . and laughed a lot more, too. . . .
'f- his tentacles as she fought for calm.
The Malaugrym smiled softly. "Not yet, so long as you are obedient, Lady . . . not yet."
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 29
Cold fire flickered, and Irendue was free of the endless nothingness and blinking away tears to stare into the darkly handsome face of one of the cruel shapeshifters ... a human face whose eyes were two dark flames.
Irendue swallowed as he took her hand and lowered her gently to the privy chamber floor. The air was cool on her bare skin. She shivered as the monster smiled at her.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, voice quavering despite herself.
"Not yet, Lady." He drew her firmly out of the room, past the humming lines of white fire that held the suspended bodies of the master and her two fellow apprentices.
"My name is Bralatar," he said as he guided her into the study and sat her in the master's chair. Once she was seated, two tentacles slid gently around her wrists, and another captured both of her ankles, but their coils held her loosely, almost gently.
"What do you want of me?" she whispered. "And where is ... the other one?"
"Not far away, exploring this impressive estate," Bralatar replied, "but we can speak more freely later . . . after you've shown me how to do a certain something with this."
He held up Mortoth's crystal ball. The glossy sphere, larger than a man's head, shone back the fire of his eyes. His smile was not a pleasant thing to see.
"You won't hurt me?" she pleaded, trembling under
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Flamerule 29
"1 understand Storm's concern about their living on to rise behind her and slay again after the battle seems won," Khelben muttered in exasperation, "but when one uses Mystra's fire on anything, not a lot is left to work with!"
"Alassra turned a dozen or more Malaugrym into mushrooms at Irythkeep," Laeral reminded him, "and they fell from a height to shatter on rocks. Surely some residue remains there, however small, that we could use...."
"Then go to the Cavern Perilous and cast whatever is needful to bring some of that residue here!"
Laeral glided close to plant a fond kiss on the ear of the lord mage of Waterdeep as he stood staring and sweating into the heart of a slowly spinning magical construct in the air before him. She left the chamber.
The construct wavered, billowed varicolored smoke, and collapsed, flying apart into spreading motes of dust and light. Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun gave the scattering residue his best scowl, sighed, and strode to his favorite armchair. For more than a day now, with Laeral at his side, he'd been working feverishly on a spell to trace Malaugrym or prevent them from shapeshifting freely ... preferably both.
He sipped at the elverquisst in his glass, turning it slightly so that the flecks of gold in the smooth, iridescent heart of the ruby liquor sparkled in the light of Laeral's latest spella spell that conjured a ring of dancing radiances that looked like candle flames.
Briefly he wondered if he should watch over his lady,
2.$$
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
to see that nothing ill befell her in the Cavern Perilous, a vast cave in the heart of Mount Waterdeep, which they used when working magics that might prove damaging to the surroundings. Nowadays, with magic gone wild, Khelben thought sourly, just about any spell could prove damaging to the surroundings.
He'd barely had that thought when the air across the room shimmered and sparkled. His beloved smiled at him as she crossed the room, a stone in her hands, the black spatters of long-dried mushroom clear upon it.
With a smile, Khelben bounded up out of his chair, feeling the familiar excitement of the chance to work truly new magic.
Then he saw the brightness of unshed tears in Laeral's eyes, and looked a wordless question at her as he came forward, arms out to hold and comfort her.
His lady sighed as she came into his embrace. "I wish Elminster were still with us. Even more than holy Mys-tra, his presencegruff ways and allmade me feel all was right in Faerun, underneath the troubles of the day."
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 30
"I'm sure I saw someone walking through the trees just about.. . here," Shar whispered. The three rangers crouched together amid a close-grown stand of massive dark trunksshadowtops that had stood on this slope for nigh a thousand years.
""What sort of someone?" Itharr asked her. "Human?"
"A youngish man, in robes, going from down there, along this slope, toward somewhere that way. I think he was on his way back after a call of nature."
"On his way back to a camp, or a halted group of wayfarers," Belkram mused. "Either way, we'd best be cautious when going where this knave you saw was
headed, for fear of being seen by a sentryor blundering into the heart of a group of foes."
Sharantyr laid a silencing hand on his arm and pointed back the way they'd come. All three strained to see and hear something. After a moment, Itharr caught sight of a furry animal moving away and said reassuringly, "Badger ... a big one, but a badger."
"That's not reassuring," Shar said, her face inches from his, "because I saw it, too . . . and what I saw go behind that tree stood on two legs and had several eyes, on stalks."
"Malaugrym," Belkram said bleakly. "Hunting us?"
"Why else would it be here, in the depths of the Elven Court woods, where creatures to devour or hide among are relatively few?" Shar replied. "Doppelgangers like cities, where there's prey in every alley and folk to hide among on every corner. Of course it's after us."
"I'm vastly reassured to know we now know what's going on," Itharr said with a grin. "I'll be ecstatic if someone details what, by the skulls of the Seven Lost Gods, we do now ?"
Behind them, from just about where they'd been peering at the probable Malaugrym, there came a sudden shout of alarm and the sharp 'whump' of a spell-burst, followed by a crackling of brush and somebody crying out an incantation in desperate haste.
"That's easy," Belkram said with a wolfish grin. He waved a hand in the direction of the commotion. "We sit and watch."
Thuruthein Tlar was determined to impress his master. Orth Lantar was the wisest Red Wizard Thuruthein had ever metand wise Red Wizards guarded and rewarded those who were truly loyal to them, for there was no more rare commodity in all of Thay.
Prestym, lyrit, and the others were the sort of
+ 9.57
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ambitious, scheming apprentices that surrounded every Red Wizard; a seething mass of fawning back-stabbers who were little better than fodder. Thuruthein suspected Orth Lantar knew their true worthand probably intended to spend the lives of more than a few of them in his stated attempt to penetrate the ruined elven city of Myth Drannor and find some of its fabled magic. Thuruthein was determined not to be counted among the expendable.
So when three humans in leather armor came skulking around the campbrigands, for certainin his watch field and during his sentry duty, Thuruthein knew just what to do.
He'd stood up behind his tree and was aiming the wand very carefully at the face of the woman, humming in anticipation and noting her wild beauty with the briefest of appreciative regretwhen he heard the smallest of sounds close behind him and whirled about, heart leaping into his throat.
To see himself grinning back at him! A Thuruthein Tlar with tentacles instead of hands. Those tentacles were stretched out an impossibly long way, like two hungry snakes, so as to be almost around Thuruthein's throat!
Orth Lantar's senior apprentice trembled, swallowed, and fired his wand with commendable calmnessonly to have his foe collapse like a felled tree before the spell-burst, falling beneath most of its harm.
It gathered itself and lunged at him with a forest of tentacles.
Backing away in sudden real terror, Thuruthein stammered the most powerful incantation he knew.
The blazing beam of destruction seared the body that so resembled his own almost entirely away to ashes but something dark and huge and very fast indeed reared up out of the leaves right in front of him, and seven mouths opened hungrily.
Thuruthein had barely time left to scream, "No! Noooo! I was loyal, Master! I was loyaaaaaah"
258
"A loyal Red Wizard's apprentice?" Belkram asked, raising his eyebrows. "A rare gem indeed!"
"Belt up," Shar hissed at him, "and let's get out of here! / don't want to get caught between a Malaugrym looking for us and an angry Red Wizard!"
"You don't?" Itharr asked as they sprinted frantically away through the woods. "Where's your sense of adventurer
The map held in midair before him, in the teeth of four floating skulls, was finally beginning to make sense. If one placed the balefire rune in the emptiness within the circle of nine black blades, a sequence of directions was revealed, leading to , . . what, by the fires?
Orth Lantar's head snapped up from the map as his crystal ball flashed a blinding red and began to shudder, rattling in the carved cup that formed the head of his staff. At the same time, a binding in his mind shifted uneasilythen snapped, flooding his thoughts with a brief, fading pain and a frantic calling. . . .
Thuruthein? By the Seven Serpents! Orth Lantar whirled, snatching up his most mighty wand from the table. "To me!" he called, and flung up his hand. His most powerful staff was leaping across the tent toward it when he felt an inward tremor, and sighed. His best apprentice was dead.
The staff smacked into his palm, and the Red Wizard spun around again to fix the crystal ball with coldly furious eyes. Under his steady glare the scrying sphere quieted and clearedand in its depths he saw a wolf lift bloody jaws from Thuruthein's torn face. The creature twisted horribly and become a larger thing, like a bear with four long, spidery arms, shaggy hair, and
ED GREENWOOD
piercing talons. It raised its head and sniffed the air, gave a horribly human laugh, and shambled purposefully away, not even glancing back at the apprentice's sprawled body and vainly lifted hands.
"An attack that robs me of something so valuable must be swiftly avenged," Orth Lantar told the nearest skull, "lest some rival behind it misread it as weakness and send all sorts of petty annoyances in its wake."
"Swift strikes the avenger, and towers topple toward the sunset," the skull intoned. The Red Wizard stiffened and stared at it in amazement. He shook his head, feeling suddenly dangerously close to tears. This must be one of Thuruthein's last pranks!
He set the warding rod to guard the magic in his tent from interlopers and shot a last look at the scene in the crystal. Rings winked on his fingersand he vanished. Four skulls tumbled to the floor, the conjured map fading away to nothingness once more. There came a startled exclamation from the apprentice on watch outside the tent.
"Master?" an anxious male voice called. "Master?"
At the lack of reply, its owner was emboldened enough to part the tent with the rod that bore the hand of a dead man, and peer within. In eerie silence, four human skulls rose to face him. Radiances deep within the rod on the table and the crystal ball atop its staff winked in unison, faster, and faster.. . .
Prudently, the apprentice withdrew, letting the hangings fall.
"Craven dullard," one of the skulls murmured as it sank down to the carpets again. Thuruthein Tlar had been busy in the idle time he'd had earlier this day, when the tent was up and his master was busy setting the wards around the camp. Now his time was all gone.
The crystal sphere flashed a sudden scarlet, and another of the skulls began to moan.
+-26O
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"Where, by the beard of Elminster, are we running to, anyway?" Belkram gasped as they topped a rise and headed down a fern-choked gully. "What makes one part of this old forest any safer than another?"
"Ask her," Itharr grunted as, side by side, they rounded a riven stump. He jerked his hand back at Sharantyr, who was watching their rear, ready blade in hand. "She's t"
The rest of his words were lost in a sudden rush from the side of the gully, a plunging fury of flashing talons and dark hairy bulk and gleaming fangs.
Belkram was thrown off his feet to crash heavily through thorns and dead branches, and heard Sharantyr scream as she charged. He snatched at his blade as something large and dark and hairy clawed him . . . something that was crouched atop Itharr, raking its talons and surging forward to bite down at the ranger beneath it with a horrible wet crunching sound that made Belkram wince as his blade finally grated free of its scabbard. Too late.
2.61
17 All Too Much Magic
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, Flamerule 30
The fire was so cold, so utterly ... cold. Its chill made her limbs tremble, helplessly and endlessly, as it rushed through her and on around the web. Irendue gasped at its icy searing, feeling her teeth chatter uncontrollably as she stared at the all-too-familiar walls and ceiling of the privy chamber . . . and wished she could die.
The one called Bralatar had promised her death . . . after he and his companion were finished with her. She could still feel the cold slime of his tentacles slithering into her ear and out her nose, and the casual way in which he'd pointed out, as she gagged and wept, that simply expanding his tentacle at this moment would cause her head to explode like a rotten fruit, giving him his most favorite of meals ... still-warm human.
Irendue swallowed, sick at the thought, and almost let her head sink back into the endless white fire. It would be so easy to just surrender.. . .
Aye, surrender and die in slow, screaming agony while the two shapeshifting monsters gloated over her.. .
Irendue swallowed again, and looked beside her at the master, hanging slack-jawed and unseeing, virtually a
ALL SHADOWS FLED
skeleton, his hair falling out in clumps from a shriveled scalp. Mortoth had been vigorous and strong, brusque even, but when he took her to his bed, he'd shaken with passion long pent up. . . . She looked again at his shriveled ruin and shuddered at what he'd become.
It was the first time she'd been free to see or think about anything without one of the shapeshifters ordering her about. The one called Bralatar had been careless in his haste, so confident of her trembling fear that he'd thrust her back into the web of fire and simply pushed at her face as he turned away. But her head had passed between two strands of the enchanted everfire, and so remained free.
His eagerness to be ahunting had let Irendue Nuen-tar, most favored but least powerful of the apprentices of Mortoth the Mighty, keep her wits, but she could take no advantage of that while she trembled in the grip of the spell. She was caught in some sort of gate that took the two monsters to and from their home. Even more chilling than the thoughts that her life and that of the master and Turnold and Larethkept the gate open, that it sucked energy out of them to do its work, was the thought of how many more shapeshifters might dwell at the other end of that gate . . . free to spill into Faerun at any time, to take the shapes of kings and merchant princes and wizards alike, and ruthlessly rise to rule all.
And what if they disagreed, as men always seem to, and fell to war? They could change shapes like flitting leaves to suit their purposes. The men, so helpless by comparison, would fall in their thousands and stain all Toril dark crimson with their spilled blood. . . . She had to get free.
So much depended on her. She simply must win free of this evil spell, but how?
Even now, one shapeshifter must be tiring of the hangings and statues and little carved things Mortoth had gathered in his long life of sorcery and be turning
+ 2(53*
ED GREENWOOD
back through the labyrinthine ring-shaped house, toward this tower. The other must be hunting down the three grim rangers she'd seen him watching on their cautious creepings through an ancient forest.
The ball! The master's scrying crystal! She'd never dared do this for fear of Mortoth's wrath, but. . . She looked at the thing of bones beside her, then looked away again.
Slowly and carefully, Irendue lifted her head and called, "Buldimer! To me!"
There was a thrumming sound from the unseen doorway behind her, and Irendue's heart leapt. It pleased Mortoth to give names to the items he'd personally enchanted, that he might summon them in need. With this evil spell linking her to the master, it seemed the items would answer her call!
To me!" she called again, putting all her will behind it this time. The sphere of crystal sailed into view around the fiery web, flying smoothly through the air to come scudding to a stop in the air before her, a little to one sidethe master's side.
She could see into its depths, where there was a forest and tiny running figures, and the flash of swords, and ... a bear that grew a human face and hands. One of those hands rose from a fold of pelt holding some-tiling she knew well: the master's wand of pain.
She'd seen him use it on the cat that prowled the garden, and on Lareth once. She'd even felt its peculiar burning sting herself when she'd disagreed with Mortoth on what beast shape he'd change her into, and what use of her he'd make then. She'd never forgotten its lash, or the softly spoken word the master had used to make it hurt her so.
She spoke that word now. "Anamauthree," she said, softly but clearly, staring into the crystal, and feeling a sudden surge in the white fire around her as the crystal flickered.
The only flesh the wand was touching as she spoke
ALL SHADOWS FLKD
was the grasping hand of the creature called Bralatar and so, of course, its magic was visited upon him. She saw him stiffen and stagger. From out of the forest beyond, something came roaring. Something blue-white and deadly, which washed across the crystal with blinding fury, sending out a lance of light through the web beside her.
The endless fire faltered for a momentand with a sob of desperation, Irendue flung herself forward through a moment of twisting, churning agony . . . and fell free.
She'd never thought falling on her face on the cold, hard privy chamber floor would be such a welcome thing . . . even with the sick, weak feeling in her right arm. She looked at it, shuddered, and bit her lip as fresh tears came.
Her once smooth, shapely arm was now wrinkles of skin over bones, from forearm to shoulder... a thing of death. She lifted it, and watched it move normally. She flexed the fingers of her unblemished hand, beyond the ruin, and watched them respond as usual. She touched the floor with one . . . and felt nothing.
Irendue swallowed and looked back up at the web of fire, a thing of stars through the tears on her lashes. The master hung there more dead than alive, and Turnold and Lareth, too.
She knelt on the floor below it and shuddered, gathering all her strength for what she knew she must do. The crystal ball flashed and spun silently above her, but she did not bother to look at it. Whatever befell in that distant battle, she must prevail here and now.
Here, andnow. Grimly she wobbled to her feet, unbalanced by her shriveled arm, and swayed, fighting for calm and stable footing. If she fell back into the web, this would all be for naught.
She wept anew when she stared into the master's sunken face. It was little better than a skull, a skull with staring white eyes, no pupils to be seen in those
ED GREENWOOD
deep-sunken sockets.
Irendue swallowed. With her good arm, she reached out and tugged at his hair. A good handful of it came away; she flung it aside in revulsion and tried again, twisting her fingers into what little hair was left and shaking him. His scalp began to tear . . . and no blood welled forth!
"Master! Brave Mortoth! My master! Irendue calls thee!" she cried desperately, her face inches from his own. His lips moved slightly, but no sound came forth. He made no further reaction. She shook him again, and patted at his forehead and shoulderthe only other places in the flowing fire that she dared reach, earning an almost painful tingling in her fingertips as she did so. There was no response at all this time.
Irendue stepped back. Tears fell unheeded to the floor at her feet, and she regarded her master soberly. "Fare better than this, Mortoth," she said formally, once she'd fought down sobs to find a voice. Then, with a last great sigh, she turned away. The great wizard was beyond her help.
His hands were spread, the fingers awash with white fire. There was no way for her to get them free to open the spellbooks that would respond only to his touch. The only spell she knew to banish magic was in one of those books . . . and without its touch, this web of fire remained a doorway for legions of shapeshifters, and Faerun stood unguarded.
The words seemed to echo in her head, as if declaimed as a doom by a great herald. "Faerun stands unguarded," she whispered aloud, and looked wildly around the room, half-expecting shapeshifters to curl out of the air in all corners.
Nothing happened. The cold fires raged on, humming endlessly, and the crystal ball hung in the air beside her, flashing and flickering. She looked once into its depths, then at her two fellow apprentices, spread-eagled and sightless in the grip of the spell.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Lareth's hair was long enough, and one of Turnold's knees projected out of the streaming fire. She stepped forward, calling their names in a soft but insistent whisper, shaking them until the very flames around them snarled in protest. She was rewarded at last with eyes swimming open, questing dully about for a moment before fixing on her.
"Lareth! Turnold!" she hissed. "I need you!"
Lareth's mouth worked silently, but Turnold licked his lips and said, slowly and carefully, "I have always suspected this."
The words were followed by the faintest of smiles. Irendue would normally have answered such a gibe with stinging words, but now it made her eyes fill with tears. Turnold's wits were still his own . . . something, at least, was as it should be in the Tower of Mortoth.
"Turnold," she said, ignoring the tremor in her voice, "do you know where the master keeps scrolls or items to dispel magic?"
Turnold's eyes held sorrow. "In his grimoires, only. He didn't want us unweaving his wards and getting into things he wanted undisturbed."
"How can I get you free?"
Turnold managed the smallest of shrugs in his bonds of flame and said, "I know not, but this gate must be destroyedor all Toril stands in danger."
Irendue nodded and with an impatient hand wiped tears from her cheeks. "But how?" she'asked, thinking of all the unusable staves and rods and floating scepters in the rooms around her. Either one of the shapeshifters might step into the room at any moment. She had no time.
"The web," Lareth said haltingly, his voice sharp and high with fear at what he was suggesting, "lives through our life. Slay us, and it will fade."
Turnold's eyes blazed with sudden fire. Irendue looked helplessly from one imprisoned apprentice to the other until her eyes were snared by those of the older,
+ 2C7-*
EoGHEENWOOD
wiser apprentice.
"Do it," Turnold whispered hoarsely, transfixing her with eyes of steel. " 'Tis the only way."
"I can't!" Irendue hissed helplessly, standing nude before him, tears rolling down her cheeks once more. She could not look away from his blazing eyes.
Hanging in the web of fire, Turnold said carefully, "You must. Know, Irendue, that I have always loved you'tis why I baited you so often."
"I can't harm anyone!" she wailed, clenching her fists.
"Take the sword the master keeps behind the door," Turnold said faintly. "Put it in my mouthand then push. Please."
Her tears almost blinded her as she found the sword in the study, fumbled its heavy length back through the passage, and came to face Turnold once more.
"I can't do this to you," she whispered. "I just can't."
"You must," he said fiercely, straining forward in the web of flames, "and you will. Put the blade in my mouth."
Irendue shook her head, weeping wildly. The sword point danced and glittered wildly in front of his-face until he growled, "I suppose one of my eyes would do as well, but I hardly think taking off my ears will suffice."
His familiar sarcasm steadied her. Irendue slid the steel between his teeth. Resting it there, she asked quietly, "Turnold, are you sure?"
"Of clorse hlyime shlure," he managed to say around the tip. "Do it!"
Irendue swallowed, blew him a kiss, closed her eyesand thrust the blade forward.
"Gods greet ye, Turnold," she said huskily, giving him the formal farewell. Her stomach heaved, and she almost flung the blade away in her haste to tear it free. When she opened her eyes again, she tried not to look at the limp thing that had been Turnold, but his blood was blazing up around him in flames of orange and red, and the web of white fires was dim, fading as she watched!
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Irendue let out a tremulous breath and looked at Lareth. "CanCan you pull free?" she asked him, and watched his face tighten as he struggled. Cold fire flickered around his trembling limbs, but after a long, silent battle he gave up, sagging forward. His teeth were chattering in fear as he raised a gray face to her and said, "D-Do it."
She did. It was easier the second time . . . and as the apprentices' bodies slumped, the web of fire faded silently away, gone as if it had never been. Its passing was marked by the hollow clatter of Mortoth's bones bouncing on the floor.
With dull eyes, Irendue stared at his grinning skull. She went to her knees among the dead men, and the dust that had been the skin of her master eddied around her. The bloody sword was cold and heavy in her hands as the world dissolved in tears again. . . .
The voice, when it came, was menacingly quiet. "What have you done?"
Irendue lifted her head and the sword together, glaring up through tangled hair at the other shapeshifter. He wore the form of a handsome, sandy-haired man with a mustache . . . but his eyes glittered dark and deadly, like those of a hawk.
"Freed us," Irendue gave him her fiercely whispered answer. "Freed us all."
"You shall die for this," Lorgyn said softly.
"I know," the woman replied calmly, embracing the sword as if it was a babe in her arms. "Kill me, then, and have done . .. monster."
Lorgyn showed his teeth in a smile. "Ah, no," he said in almost friendly tones. "Death need not be so fast and easy as all that. I shall use your sorcery to help me raise another gate . . . and your body to power it. Of course, that body need not be whole ..."
Still wearing that terrible grin, he advanced on her.
ED GREENWOOD
Elven Court woods, Flamerule 30
"Die!" Belkram roared in fury, forgetting all thoughts of stealth and nearby wizards as he thrust his blade repeatedly into the shapeshifter's hairy, many-taloned bulk. If only it were still silver, he thought fiercely as he drove his steel home once more and struck something hard within, making the Malaugrym quiver.
It snarled and shrank away, and Belkram lunged after it, catching sight of Sharantyr's blade flashing on its far flank. The lady ranger's blade glistened as it rose and fell with a green-hued, translucent slime that must be the monster's blood.
"Right," Belkram snarled, "let's see all of your blood, beast! All of it!"
His blade thrust down to its hilt into the shifting bulk before him, and the Malaugrym recoiled, drawing flailing tentacles back into itself in struggling spasms of pain.
As it receded, it left Itharr behind, writhing weakly on the ground, his lifeblood drenching the moss and dead leaves around him. The Harper's mouth worked, and his eyes were blood-red; Belkram knew his friend was sorely wounded.
Delude yourself not, Belkram told himself sourly, he's dying.
Frantically he chopped and slashed at the shapeshifter, hearing Sharantyr's sobbing as she did the same thing. Her hair swirling around her, and she leapt high to throw all her weight behind her blade.
Something blazed with sudden fire behind her. A rolling wave offeree, like a wave she'd once waded through on the beaches of Sembia, took her behind the knees and flung her forward onto the Shadowmaster.
Gray flesh opened up around her, seeking to suck her down in and smother her. Sharantyr screamed in fear and fury, clawed her way clear, and wriggled off the beasts's far side.
She came up wild-eyed, with blade in hand and
ALL SHADOWS FLED
breast heavingand gaped in astonishment at a cold-eyed man in the robes of a Red Wizard, who stood over Itharr with staff in hand, glaring at a rainbow-hued radiance in the air around him.
"Must all spells go wild?" he snarled, leveling his staff in both hands as if it were a lance. Sparks raced down its length, and from its end burst brilliantly blue butterflies.
Belkram was still cutting at the heaving, roiling ten-tacled mass that was the Malaugrym, but trying at the same time to keep watch on this newcomer. The shapeshifter rose into a pillar of flesh, reached spade-shaped arms toward the Red Wizard, slimmed those arms into needlelike pincers ...
The Red Wizard said something soft and briefand fire seemed to be born within the Malaugrym, hurling its flesh and tentacles apart in an eruption of hissing steam.
The riven body fell back onto scorched moss, dwindling into something that was almost human. Something faceless and sprawled, which blazed with many small fires.
Shar faced the Red Wizard across their smoke and asked in a shaking voice, "Why ... why did you aid us?"
The wizard's cold eyes met hers, and Sharantyr was suddenly aware of how easily he could destroy them. Even with magic fraying wild, he bore several wands at his belt, something longer and more impressive sheathed like a sword at his hip, and the staff. Lights winked here and there along its carved length, and were answered by glows from among the many rings on his fingers. The Knight swallowed and stepped back, raising her sword. Belkram moved to her side, his blade also ready.
The Red Wizard smiled thinly. "Another day we might be foes to the death," he said in a voice strong with confidence and power. "But against such a one as this ..."
The sorcerer gestured down at the collapsing ashes that had been the Malaugrym, and went on, "Against
271
ED GREENWOOD
such a one, all must stand togetheror no man in Faerun will know freedom, in the end."
He did something to his staff, and a glass vial appeared in the air above Sharantyr's hand. As it came to rest gently in her palm, he bowed to them both and turned away.
The flash of his departure lit up the rune graven in the glass. "A healing potion of the utmost power," Sharantyr said wonderingly. She went to her knees beside Itharr.
Blood was bubbling at his lips with every breath. She unstoppered the vial with infinite care and tipped it deep within, feeling his teeth tighten on the glass as a sudden spasm racked him.
"May the gods ascend to their rightful places, so that we can pray to them once more,17 she said feelingly, holding the vial firmly in place as Itharr bucked and writhed in Belkram's arms.
"May these accursed shapeshifters return to their rightful places," Belkram said to her, "so that we don't have to!"
"Gnorlgh," Itharr agreed weakly, from beneath them. "Gut thlisgh out ou mymouth!" He spat out the vial and struggled to sit up.
"Itharr!" Shar said joyfully, and embraced him, covering his lips with her own.
"Some men," Belkram said, watching her weep and meeting one of Itharr's eyes through her hair, "are far luckier than they have any right to be." Then he discovered something must have gotten into his own eye. The world suddenly glimmered and blurred and a sound large and raw rose in his throat. . . .
Tower of Mortoth, Sembia, early Midsummer Day
A crystal ball spun unheeded in a darkened room in the Tower of Mortoth. It flickered fitfully, then came to
S.7SL
ALL SHADOWS FLED
a sudden halt. As its inner glow died and it crashed to the privy chamber floor, a woman screamed nearby, high and despairing, and drowned out the sound of the crystal shattering. .. .
Tilverton, early Midsummer Day
A solitary lantern guttered outside the gates in the gray hour before dawn, but its light was enough to reveal the Purple Dragon emblazoned proudly on the wrinkled surcoat of a yawning sentry. The armsman came alert with a grunt and stepped back to lower the tip of his spear. Something small and sleek and dark slid around the gatepost.
He relaxed and gave it a grin. Surmalkin back from mousing . . . and irritated at a lack of success, by the look of him.
"How now, little one?" the armsman growled, bending over fondly. The cat gave him a warning, defiant look and minced past. The guard watched him go. Grinning, the man leaned on his spear. It must be a nice, soft life, being a cat.. ..
Something that was strong and swift instead of nice and soft smashed him across the back of the head. He stumbled forward, dazedand was still gathering wits and breath to shout for aid when the same something took him by the throat. It wrung his neck.
Blood ran from the armsman's nose and mouth as the Malaugrym propped him against the gatepost, hooking the shoulder straps of his armor upon the gate so he seemed to be leaning on it, lost in slumber.
After that, it was the work of a few breaths to scale the crumbling stone walls of the mansion that served the visiting high and mighty of Cormyr as home in Tilverton. From its high site, Lorgyn could see the lamps of the town winking below as his tentacles pulled
ED GREENWOOD
him onto the balcony. He slid easily into human form ... or at least, the appearance of an elegant old Cor-myrean courtier he'd once seen, but with hands like large, flexible webbed paddlesakin to the hind feet of a beaver. He glided into the room.
The small blue glimmering of the lady's ward spun her awake in alarm.
But he was already bending low over the bed and whispering, "Good morning, my dear. Alambrara, isn't it?"
With one of those broad hands, he smothered whatever reply she might have made. His iron strength held her down until her sudden struggles subsided.
When she fell limp under him and the tiny lightnings of her collapsing ward had finished jittering through him, Lorgyn checked that she yet breathed. She was alive.
He nodded in satisfaction and set about stripping away the gems she wore at her ears, throat, and ankles. Who knew what sort of tracing magic could be linked to the jewelry of a powerful war wizard?
Her own bedclothessoft samite sheets, no less served admirably to gag and bind her, and he was gone from the room before the first light of dawn broke the eastern sky, low beyond the gray walls of Tilverton.
Breaths later, that wan, rosy light fell upon the wagon marked "Pendle's Fine Meats." Lorgyn unlatched its side door and thrust his bundle inside.
It was his wagon now, he thought as he melted into the heavy, grizzled form of Pendle once more and undid the sheet that had covered his prize from the eyes of any overly curious early risers.
Carefully drawing the door closed, he tore the sheet into strips and bound the war wizard Alambrara beside the fat Amnian, Gorluth the Great. He chuckled at the contrast between the shapely limbs of the Cormyrean, the fat and hairy little mage from Amn, and beyond him, Irendue's slim beauty. She was awake, her eyes blazing at him over the gag that was her only garment.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Lorgyn winked at her as he tightened a lashing and stood back to survey the three naked people bound to the meat bars.
The beginnings of a fine collection. If more folk collected wizards thus, there'd be less trouble all over Faerun, to be sure. Still, he'd be needing more if a new gate were to be a truly lasting thing. Two gates, with a hidden one only he knew about, would be even more secure.
Two mages that would be easily found were Jhessail and Ulistyl, Knights based in Shadowdale.
Giving Irendue a cheery wave and miming the biting off of a finger (he'd devoured her thumbs thus far, while punishing her, and planned to make of her fingers a long-lasting snack), Lorgyn replaced the padlock that only he had a key for, and went to the next wagon to rouse his men. He wondered briefly how they could sleep through each other's snoring.
"Up, lads," he said, shaking and slapping with brisk enthusiasm. " Tis time we set off for Shadowdale. I think we're all due for a little rest. . . and that's the place."
"Urggh," his cook said, "ye want dawnfry first?"
Lorgyn shook his head. The cook eyed him for a moment, then shrugged. Pendle never refused an early meal, even when it was only cold partridge from the night beforebut this was three days now. . . .
Lorgyn gave the man's back a soft smile, and resolved to eliminate him as soon as the wagon was rumbling along the last stretch, between Shadowdale and the Tower of Mortoth. Yesroasted alive on a spit in his own oversalty brown sauce would be fitting, too.
The gate guards were almost as sleepy and surly as his own grumbling men, but at last they did their work with bars and chains. Pendle's three wagons rumbled out of Tilverton, the first farers forth onto the road.
Even the horses complained as their burdens groaned and bumped along east toward Shadowdale. Pendle's men rode all around them with ready weapons
ED GREENWOOD
and sleepy faces, wondering what madness had taken their master this time. Pendle smiled back at them all, and more than one man shivered at the soft promise in that smile.
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
The glimmer of the scrying portal faded as it sank into the shadows, spinning away into nothingness. The face above its dissolution was a mask of wiggling, questing worms, but owned eyes that blazed like two lanterns of raging spellfire. Worms beneath them parted, and a calm voice said to the vast, long-empty chamber of the Castle of Shadows, "It is time to move at last. Let the hunt begin in earnest."
Faerun, Shadowdale, Midsummer Day
The horn had cried out peace and parley, so the guards at the bridge over the Ashaba had not roused the folk of the tower in swift earnest. Lord Mourngrym and Lady Shaerl had been in the morning room over a leisurely dawnfry when their heralds brought word of the coming of a special envoy of Cormyr, Sir Tantor Dauntinghorn.
Just as they were, the lord and lady hastened down to the sward outside the tower, intent on welcoming the envoy and seeing to the needs of his large escort of Purple Dragons and war wizards.
With a glint in his eye, Mourngrym assured the stiff and magnificently mustachioed Sir Tantor that he was not now standing in a holding of Zhentil Keep, and that all minds in the dale were free of insidious Zhentarim
276
ALL SHADOWS FLED
spells. He thanked Cormyr for its obvious intent to do battle with the Zhent evil, given the handsome array of battle might and ready sorcery, come so long and dusty a way from the Forest Kingdom to Shadowdalestill proudly independent. He added that he hoped there would always be warm friendship between Cormyr and Shadowdalecoupled with mutual respect for each other's views, aims, and continued freedom.
The lord of the dale invited all of Cormyr into the Tower of Ashaba for a highsun meal as he made himself and his lady available to Sir Tantor, to hear the most important of messages and views from the Forest Kingdom.
The invitation was accepted. Bells rang to bring servants flooding into the feast hall just steps ahead of the hard-striding armsmen of Cormyrand transform the already-bustling kitchens into a frantic whirlwind of steam and rushing folk and shouts.
"Pray come up to my morning room," Lord Mourngrym said to Sir Tantor. He led the way up the stairs. Shaerl followed beside the envoy's personal escort, a senior war wizard, as they ascended from the tumult below.
"If we can speak bald truth for a breath or two" Mourngrym added as they stepped into a room still aromatic with the odor of buttered bread, sausages, roast pheasant in sauce, melted cheese with mustard on biscuits, and the other dishes of a light dawnfry, and he drew the door firmly closed "pray tell me plainly why you're here."
Sir Tantor drew himself up to his full height and growled, "My lord, this is most irregular! While a free and open exchange of views is"
"Mourngrym," said the old, gaunt war wizard standing at ShaeiTs side, "I am Luthtor of Suzail, empowered to speak to you with the voice of Azoun and the candor of Vangerdahast. We're here to investigate rumors of Elminster's death, to make sure Zhentil Keep hasn't
ED GREENWOOD
gained control of, or influence over, this daleand to strongly put forth the sixtieth or so offer from Azoun that Shadowdale become a protectorate of Cormyr."
"My thanks for your candor," Mouragrym said dryly. "Let us gently refuse Cormyr's kind offer once more, at once, so that no unpleasantness need follow between us. I want to be Azoun's friendbut not his subject. He cannot have me continue as the one if he must insist on the other."
"Well, if v/e're being quite candid," Sir Tantor growled, "what's to stop us from simply seizing Shadowdale?"
"Me," Shaerl said sweetly. They all turned to stare at her. "I have Azoun's personal promise," she told them, "that I'd have a free hand in Shadowdale, and that no Purple Dragon nor war wizard of fair Cormyr would meddle east of the Ashaba until I gave them leave to do so."
"My lady," Luthtor said sternly, "you know very well that Azoun's word held only so long as you were on your promised mission for the crown... a mission Vangerda-hast considers you abandoned on your wedding day, cleaving to this man"he bowed to Mourngrym "rather than your sworn duty."
"My lord," Shaerl said, her eyes gleaming with a dangerous light, "you are obviously unaware of the precise wording of Azoun's bidding and my promise, so I'll not argue the point with you. Be assured that if you move against us, Azoun will be foresworn."
"And if we know nothing of these ah, private words, and present the throne of Shadowdale to him anyway?" Sir Tantor huffed.
"It will be my duty to resist you," Mourngrym said, "and that of all the Knights of Myth Drannor."
"Their fame is not inconsiderable," the war wizard Luthtor granted. "But do you seriously think a handful of adventurers, however bold, can stand against the forces accompanying us? More than a dozen war wiz-
+ 278*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
ards are watching over more than two hundred and sixty veteran armsmen in your feast hall right now."
"And just how long, Lord Luthtor," Shaerl asked sweetly, "do you think all of them would last against the Queen of Aglarond?"
Both Cormyreans paled slightly. The war wizard shrugged and asked, "And what evidence can you give us you can even contact her, let alone command her to battle at your bidding?"
"None," Shaerl said softly. "As with other armed endeavors in life, goodsirs, you'll just have to take that risk and find out the hard way. Or back down, as is far more prudent, and go home wondering for the rest of your lives if we were bluffing." She seemed to think of something, and added calmly, "Of course, the second way, you will have a 'rest of your lives' to wonder in."
*Trforeover," Mourngrym said pleasantly, "the second way preserves our friendship, whereas the first loses forever any hope Cormyr may have that Shadowdale will not ally with Hillsfar, say, or Sembia, against the Purple Dragon."
"I ..." Sir Tantor seemed unsure of how to proceed. He looked quickly to Luthtor.
The war wizard nodded, smiled, and said, "Perhaps, indeed, we've speculated with extreme imprudence. Permit me to tender our deepest apologies, and pass on to the other matters we mentioned, to whit*
"What?" The envoy had turned a dangerous shade of purple. He glared at Luthtor, and snarled, "You're just going toback down? Abandon our mission, just like that? Well, be advised that my first recommendation, upon seeing Vangerdahast at our return, will be to repl"
"Enough of this," Shaerl snapped in tones that brought the envoy to instant silence. "Why don't we involve Azoun and Vangy in this discussion directly? I'd like to hear just what they intend." She held up one finger, and turned a ring upon it so that its black sapphire caught
279*
ED GREENWOOD
the light. It winked with a blue-white radiance as she stroked itand both Cormyreans stared at it in surprise.
Like two coldly leveled spears, Shaerl's eyes caught those of the war wizard. "Shall I speak to them myself, Lordor will Vangy stop merely listening through you, and have the grace to introduce himself?"
Sir Tantor stared again at the war wizard, and Mourngrym looked as if he were hiding a smile.
Luthtor sat very still, his eyes suddenly older and sadder than they had been. When he spoke, his voice was deeper and rougher than before. "Well played, li"
Suddenly the scene before them melted away into swirling mists of gold and gray, and left the two Malaugrym staring at the fetid insides of a dungeon.
"By the blood of Malaug!" Argast snarled, "is every spell you cast going to twist wild?"
Amdramnar shrugged. "I've another." He strode across the cavern and muttered an incantation, raising his hands to trace intricate gestures. The golden mists returned. They swirled around him for a momentand then turned into bunches of grapes and fell.
Argast watched the fruit splatter on the stone floor and cast a quick look behind him. The torch in its sconce blazed as before, and there was no watching helmed head nor shout of alarm. They were alone in the dungeons of the tower, on the worst guard duty one could draw . . . unless one were really a Malaugrym, and wanted a little privacy for some spell-casting.
That is, if any spell would work. Amdramnar looked up from the grapes and muttered, "We don't have time to study that spell againhalf their talkingll be done before we're ready."
Argast growled in slow anger, and said, "Then it's time for you to take the shape of two guards for a while."
Amdramnar lifted a questioning eyebrow. His fellow Malaugrym was already blurring and dwindling . . . until a rat blinked at him, winked once, and then
ALL SHADOWS FLED
turned to dash away into the darkness.
Amdramnar sighed, sat down, and stretched into the semblance of two bored guards sitting together on a crate, down here in the storage cavern. He arranged weapons and armor to conceal the place at the thighs where the two bodies were joined, and settled down to wait, hoping Argast wasn't making a fatal mistake.
18
A Gathering in Shadoojdale
From the dungeons, old and dusty rat holes led up to the pantry. In the confusion of all the cooks and scullery maids working in frantic haste and doors everywhere propped open to keep the heat down, the rat was able to streak through the kitchens and outside. The yard behind the tower was crowded with youngsters peeling potatoes and carting away greens, but no one noticed a rodent scuttling around the corner, into the tall grass.
In a trice, the rat became a pigeon, and ascended hi a flutter of wings to an open tower window.
The casement gave in to the end of a hall lined with tapestries, paintings, and closed doors. At the far end of the corridor, where it opened out into a meeting with other passages, daylight gleamed on the armor of a tower guard. The guard turned his head as the pigeon's wings blocked the sunlight, but Argast hastily landed on the windowsill. The guard gave the pigeon a glance, then looked away again.
It was sheer mischance that he yawned and looked back down the hall as the pigeon was rising up into a man.
"Hold!" the guard bellowed, leveling his spear as he broke into a charge.
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Argast snarled in disgust and ducked behind the nearest tapestry, shifting shape as fast as he could.
All too soon a spear point thrust through the hanging, its point skittering along the stone wallbut the Malaugrym had shrunk down into a wadded mass by the floor to watch the spear strike sparks overhead. He surged upright as it withdrew. As he'd expected, it reappeared more cautiously, drawing the hanging aside. By then he was ready.
The guard found himself blinking at a buxom, very bare female . . . the most beautiful woman he'd ever seen. He swallowed as she smiled at him, and blinked again as she held out her arms, beckoning....
An inconspicuous taloned tentacle that had snaked across the floor rose up behind his head, reached around, and tore his face off.
Argast stared down at the twisted, blood-spattered body, satisfied the death had made little noise. But what now? If he posed as the guard, he'd be attacked if he left his post and was seen listening at doors . . . and this body would be found soon enough. He positioned it against the wall behind the tapestry, using the spear as a prop, but anyone who even glanced into the passage was sure to see the bulge . . . and the blood all over the floor.
He shrugged then, and became a rat again. They were only humans, after all. . ..
Blackstaff Tower, Waterdeep, Midsummer Day
Khelben looked up from his work, startled, as Laeral stiffened and laid a hand on his arm. "Malaugrym!" she snapped, eyes closed, and clutched at her forehead, listening to an inner voice. "Jhessail's found a guard murdered in the tower and suspects Malaugrym did the killing. He was torn by talons on an upper floor, where
ED GREENWOOD
no beast could reach unseen and no strong magic has been worked lately. . .."
The sending ended, and Laeral raised her head, her eyes grave.
"Aye, it would be in Shadowdale," Khelben said gloomily, reaching out to stroke her long, curly silver hair. "Have you never noticed: nothing much in Faerun happens anywhere else."
Laeral gave him a tight smile, but said nothing. She was already bustling about the room, gathering cloaks, wands, and boots.
Khelben stared down at his scribblings and litter of material components, and admitted to himself what they both already knew: his Malaugrym spell was going nowhere, right speedily. He pushed back from the table and sprang to his feet. "I'm not trusting teleporting in this, mind," the Blackstaff told his lady irritably.
"I know," she replied brightly. That's why I'm rushing about gathering things instead of being there already." She held out a wand.
Khelben stared down at it for a long, silent breath. Then the corners of his mouth curled up slightly, and he took it from her. Stepping into the boots she was holding ready, he took both their cloaks over his arm, strode without pause to the door, and held it wide. Laeral gave him a twinkling smile and brushed his cheek with a kiss as she went out.
One of their younger, newer apprentices, Paershym Woodstoke of Neverwinter, was trotting excitedly along a passage, his head down and a precious spell tome clutched in his hands. Its covers, two polished plates of ever-bright silver, flashed suddenly as the lord and lady mage of Waterdeep stepped out of a side door, spilling light into the dim hallway. They leapt across the passage like a pair of pranksome apprentices. With a softly spoken password, they opened the door of a closet that had to be tiny, crunched between two flanking rooms, and crowded into it together, giggling.
294
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Lady Laeral winked at Paershym just before the door closed behind herleaving the apprentice, who'd halted to gape in astonishment, quite alone in the passage. He blushed a brilliant crimson and stared in disbelief at the closed door of the tiny closet. Slowly, almost reluctantly, he stole up to it and tried the handle. It was locked.
He turned away feeling almost relievedand stiffened as the doorknob behind him emitted a faint, girlish giggle.
Clutching the book very firmly, he hurried away, wondering how his father would take the news if he wrote a letter home explaining that he'd changed his mind about becoming a wizard....
In a chamber deep within Twilight Hall, a lady laughed. "We've more than earned this, beloved," she purred to the person in the heart of the canopied bed. His reply was a wordless growl that left her giggling until the closet door beside the bed burst open.
"Please excuse the intrusion," the lord mage of Waterdeep said gravely to the astonished Harper couple as he marched briskly across the room to the closed door of another closet.
Laeral mouthed, "Sorry," to the shocked faces above the covers, waved a farewell, and stepped into the closet behind Khelben.
There were a lot of dusty cloaks inside, and she sneezed more than once before Khelben found the catch on the secret door and led her on into a lightless passage that zigged, zagged, and opened into the back of yet another closet.
As the Blackstaff briskly opened the closet door, they saw a bored Harper guard sitting in the room beyond, sharpening his blade. No intruders ever got this far, after all, and . ..
ED GREENWOOD
The guard sprang up as the wizards strode into the room. He waved his sword menacingly. "Halt, by the silver Harp and the blood spilled for it!" he charged sternlybut the two mages were already past him, heading for one of the doors across the room.
The Harper gaped. "But you'reyou're Khelben!"
The archwizard sighed. "Has the disguise spell failed again? Oh, dear ..." He rolled his eyes theatrically.
Laeral chimed in breathlessly, "We've tried everything. . . ."
As she spread her hands in despair, Khelben touched the door in a certain spotand it flared into a blinding glow. The Harper threw up his hand to shield his eyes, just in time to see the two mages fade away. . . .
The Castle of Shadows, Shadowhome, Midsummer Day
In a room where shadows were rarely still, two tenta-cled things met, exchanged grunts of recognition, and rose into manlike forms.
"It's even worse than I'd thought," Hulurran said without preamble or greeting. "Since Dhalgrave was slain and the intruders first came, over sixty of the kin have perished or disappeared . . . perhaps as many as seventy!"
"Seventy!" Gathran sighed gloomily. "Will we live to see the House of Malaug dwindle to nothing, and the shadowbeasts finally slither in to tear the last few of us apart?"
Hulurran shrugged. There's just one good thing," he said. "Milhvar was working on a cloak that shielded him from the prying magics of the mages of Faerun . . . a 'cloak of shadows,' he called it in his notes. If any-thing's befallen them, the secret of its making is gone with him."
ALL SHADOWS FLED
"You saw his notes?" Gathran did not bother to hide his astonishment.
Hulurran smiled. "Milhvar was so old that he sometimes forgot that others of us have seen just as many years. . . . He hid some of his notesand the finished cloak; I saw him testing itin a hideaway Anduthil created for safe storage. Since Anduthil's passing, I believe he thought only he remembered its existence." He turned slightly, and made a gesture. "It's right here," he added, "and"
Hulurran fell abruptly silent. Gathran peered over his shoulder to see why. The hideaway was a small room with a cot, a chair, a desk, and a chamberpot. A few blank scraps of parchment were strewn on the desk, but the cotwhere his companion was probing emptinesswas quite bare. " Twas right here," Hulurran said, frowning, "and he wasn't wearing it when he met his endI saw him die."
"Then where is it?" Their eyes met and held in silence for a long while.
Hulurran sighed. "Let us hope one of us is wearing it in Faerun right now."
"A prudent one of us," Gathran agreed.
They both sighed then, and left that place.
When the world stopped whirling, they were sitting together on a bench in Shadowdale, with Elminster's Tower rising crookedly in front of themand a startled guard scrambling up from where he'd been lounging on the bench beside them. He swung his gleaming pike down.
Khelben calmly struck it aside and twisted it out of the armsman's hands.
Laeral said mildly, "Perhaps it's the clothes we're wearing...."
ED GREENWOOD
"With all due respect, sir merchant," the guardcap-tain said firmly, "no one brings wagons into Shadow-dale without our looking inside them."
The paunchy, unshaven merchant glared at him. "Aye, I know your sort of searching. What's the point o' my coming all the way from fair Cormyr"one of his men gave him a strange look, and the guardcaptain almost smiled"if you steal half my stock, eh? Pendle's Fine Meats are known from Suzail to Selgaunt, and I'll be damned by all the gods if I let some uniformed thugs in a backwater dale rob me of what I've worked so hard for!"
"Then turn your wagons about, merchant, and go around Shadowdale," the guardcaptain said softly, his hand on his sword.
"This one's open, sir," one of the guards spoke out, pointing at the second wagon back. Without taking his eyes from the guardcaptain, Pendle grew a tentacle thirty feet long that snapped like a lash around the armsman's throat.
There was a collective gasp of horror and fear from men on both sides of the roadblock. The guardcaptain stared hard at Pendle as his sword flashed out. "What are you?" he asked, white to the lips.
Lorgyn smiled a wintry smile at him as two tentacles smashed the man's sword away, and a third rose with a bony spear to stab him in one eye. "I wondered when you'd get around to asking that," he said softly.
Men were screaming on all sides now. There was a general rush from the wagons into the woods. Pendle's outriders turned their horses and spurred westward as fast as the horses would go.
The Malaugrym reached out and calmly slew another man, and another, reaching always for those trying to flee or raising horns to arouse the dale. Some of the guards got their bows out, and arrows hissed and hummed. Lorgyn ignored them as he went on killing.
By the time all the guards were dead, lying twisted
4-298*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
and broken in the road around him, the Malaugrym was feathered with many arrows. Heedless of the blood streaming from him in a dozen places, Lorgyn shifted to oxen form to drag the lead wagon aside; its draft horses had taken even more arrows than he had, and lay dead in the traces.
The wagon of wizards was all that mattered now. Lorgyn led the frightened horses past all the blood, into Shadowdale. The time for skulking was past . . . now, let all in Faerun beware the Malaugrym, and cringe in fear!
"There it is again," Belkram said, pointing at Sharan-tyr's pack. "You'd better see what it is!"
The lady ranger set down her pack with more haste than grace, and drew her sword.
"I'll open it," Belkram offered, "and you keep blade ready, right?"
She nodded, and Itharr stood back to keep watch on the woods around as Shar bent over her pack. Something had quivered in its depths ... at least twice now. Belkram was cautiously turning out the kindling, her candles, her spare boots and undershift, her gloves . . . "There!"
Two blades flashed downto hover above a small cloth bundle. "Lhaeo was holding that before we left," Shar said slowly. "What is it? And why would he put it in my pack?"
The tip of Belkram's blade touched it very cautiously. Then the ranger grinned, reached over, and unwrapped it, revealinga stone.
A ghostly vapor swirled up from it as it said, "Finally! Draw together, all of you, and bide here until I return I only hope we're not too late!"
Open-mouthed, the three rangers watched Sylune of Shadowdale fly off through the trees.
+ 289*
ED GREENWOOD
"She can leave her stone?"
"Storm or Lhaeo must have worked some magic," Bel-kram said, grunting as he reached beyond comfort's stretch to pluck up Shar's gloves. "Let's get you packed again," he said. "When a mage tells you to stay together, she usually means it's teleport time."
Itharr nodded agreementthen they all gaped again as the air shimmered. The Red Wizard was standing before them again, Sylune's head floating above his open palm. He gave the three a curt nod of greeting.
The Witch of Shadowdale asked crisply, "Have we a bargain, then?"
Orth Lantar nodded again. "We do,"
"Right. Know then that the Lost Ring of Blaestarn lies beneath the third flagstone south of the unicorn fountain, in the house where you've been searching; the white dragon Glandananglar is no more, and her treasure lies under her bones in a cave on the east side of Mount Ahaeraghits mouth is covered by an illusion, but lies below the tallest horn; and the ioun stones of Thavilar Halcontar are buried a long pace to the south of the duskwood tree in the northwestern corner of his garden. I'll tell you where the rest of the treasures lie after you've sent these three safely to Shadowdale."
The Red Wizard bowed. "It will be my pleasure to so serve." He raised his hands and began, and the three rangers saw a blue-white radiance stream from Sylune to surround his head and shoulders, steadying him against the magic twisting wild.
Soberly and carefully the Red Wizard worked a mass teleport spell, and the world began to whirl into blue-white mists.
"Holy Mystra, aid us," the three rangers heard Sylune say as the magic took effect.
Then the floating head of the Witch of Shadowdale gasped, and her ghostly eyes widened. "Wh-Who are you?"
"Midnight," came the reply, echoing in all their
+ 20O*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
heads.
Sudden force flooded into Sylune; her fading spectral form flickered, and then grew strong and bright. "But you can call me Mystrafor so I am, henceforth."
Sylune gaped at a face only she could seeand beside her, the Red Wizard went to his knees, babbling a prayer.
He had not prayed to the Lady of All Mysteries since he'd been a young apprentice, and that had been very long ago.
The world danced, and the three rangers suddenly found themselves standing at the crossroads by the Old Skull Inn in Shadowdale, with startled armsmen and villagers staring at them from all sides.
They peered around, wondering why Sylun6 had been so suddenly adamant that they be here, now.
"Is that the Blackstaff?" Itharr asked, eyes wide. He pointed toward Elminster's Tower.
Belkram peered. "AyeI spoke to him once, and to Laeral several times; that's her, too, beside him."
Khelben Arunsun was casting a spellor rather, miscasting it. A shower of blue furry jungle plants abruptly rained down around him. He cursed loudly, like any merchant who's made a mistake, and strode toward the road. Two laborers, who were walking along it with heavy hods on their shoulders, looked back.
They let the hods fall, and boiled up into things out of nightmare.
A small forest of tentacles reached for folk all around, and the street became a chaos of screaming, fleeing people, with armsmen trying to wade through them. Tentacles grew many-fanged mouths and bit down mercilessly.
"Malaugrym," the three rangers shouted, breaking into a run.
Laeral hurled a spelland the two monsters were
291
girt with an amber radiance, out of which darted dozens of butterflies.
Laeral stared in disgust at the clouds of insects, unbelted her robe, and let it fall to the turf behind her. Beneath it she wore a short kirtle bristling with daggers. Drawing one in either hand, she raced across the meadow toward the road, Khelben lumbering along beside her.
Horns were ringing out from the Tower of Ashaba, and armored men were streaming from its gatesmen who wore the Purple Dragon of Cormyr.
The Malaugrym were undulating along the road toward the three rangers. As the three hefted their blades and eyed reaching tentacles, they heard the deep, bubbling voice of one tentacled monster ask, "Argast, what's that?"
They all stared at what was rising up from the road in front of the towera gigantic black dragon, clutching a wagon in its claws!
"By all the blinded, crawling gods ..." Shar cursed in disbelief, watching the dragon spread its great wings. One beat sent it over the meadow, where it set the wagon down as tenderly as a newly laid egg. It banked and roared down at the crossroads, jaws gaping.. . .
Jhessail looked up sharply as a roar split the air outside. "What was that?" she snapped.
Illistyl beat her to the window. "Gods!" she gasped. "A dragon!"
Jhessail thrust her head past her apprentice's shoulder and glared out. "Out of nowhere? Impossible!"
She snatched something out of her bodice and tugged. A fine gold chain parted, and Jhessail held up a pendant that was shaped like a sphere, with windows enclosing a smaller windowed sphereand another, and yet another.
4-292*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Illistyl stared at it. Elminster had given her that, and she'd never said what it was for. .. ,
Jhessail thrust it out the window and whispered a single wordand the pendant was gone in a flash of spreading light that all but blinded them both.
The swooping dragon flashed with that same light, and was suddenly no huge black scaled wynn at all, but a small, manlike thing trailing tentacles as it fell from the sky.
Laeral leapt desperately out of the way as the twisting, changing thing crashed to earth.
Both Malaugrym hissed, "Lorgyn!"
Around the cursing lord mage of Waterdeep, spells were going awry in a continuous swirl of radiances and odd manifestations. Laeral scrambled through a shower of green lizards, the snapping fangs of Malaugrym tentacles close behind her.
"Gods," Sharantyr said, her face paling as the three rangers charged together, pounding along the road toward the two gigantic snake-things that were writhing and snapping in earnest now, crushing guards and sweeping horses and men into the air with their lashing tails, "Are we really going into that"?"
"Of course," Belkram shouted merrily. "We're reckless, crazed heroes, remember?"
"More than that," Itharr bellowed, "we're the Rangers Three!"
"The Rangers Three!" they shouted in chorus as their blades struck home.
The world rapidly became a place of constant slashing and hacking, with Malaugrym tentacles smashing and slapping from everywhere as armsmen shouted and died.
The lady mage of Waterdeep was stabbing with silver-bladed daggers, and Malaugrym tentacles were shriveling at their touch or cringing away before her. To avoid the bite of silver blades, the monsters began to hurl hapless armsmen and villagers at her, seeking to crush or
ED GREENWOOD
suffocate her beneath broken bodies. Khelben stood over Laeral, the broken haft of a pike in his hands, trying to protect his lady against too many stabbing tentacles.
An annsman was flung through the air, his broken limbs flailing like smashed twigs. Sharantyr ducked under him, slashed aside one last tentacle, and drew back her blade to plunge it deep into one gigantic yellow Malaugrym eye.
Out of the eye burst Amdramnar's face, pleading: "Stay your blade, Sharantyr! Know that I love you"
Shar gazed at the Malaugrym in astonished horror, blade raised. She never saw the scorpionlike tail that rose behind her, lifting from a broken thing that had once been a dragon.
The bony spur stabbed downand burst out through the lady ranger's breast in a rain of blood.
Itharr and Belkram shrieked in horror and went mad with their blades, screaming and stabbing in all directions.
The lady ranger stiffened, and blood sprayed from her sagging lips.
A great roar of anguish rose over the fray as the monster that was Amdramnar cried, "No! Lorgyn, you fool! She was to be my mate! SharantyrF
Storm Silverhand was almost home from patrol now, and contentment welled up within her. The familiar woods rose green and deep around her. She did not hurry. Her boots followed trails she hadn't walked in a while, and chances to relax were few enough, these days.
A roaring sound rose into the air ahead, muffled by the trees. Storm frowned and stopped to listen. Were those shouts? Yes!
Shadowdale must t* under attack! With a soft curse, the Bard of Shadowdale drew her blade and broke into a
294*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
trot, weaving through the trees as quickly as she could.
Laeral darted through a dancing chaos of tentacles, desperately stammering a healing spell. Too late.
The rearing tail of the Malaugrym thrust the limp lady ranger high into the air, then smashed her into the dust of the road. Again it rose, Sharantyr dangling, and again flung her down.
Itharr and Belkram all but clawed their way through a forest of writhing tentacles to get at that tail.
A tentacle struck Laeral. She rolled in the dust herself, slashing her way free and scrambling upto find the air in front of her shimmering! She drew back her hand to hurl a spell of searing destruction . ..
But two white-faced women in robes appeared Knights of Myth Drannor. They raised their hands and snapped out incantations. Their magic twisted wild as they hurled it, and the tentacles swept down at them, too....
"Here!" Laeral called. She tossed two of her silver-bladed daggers to the Knightswho fielded them expertly, waved in thanks, and set to work.
The Malaugrym Amdramnar was writhing under the blades of the two furious Harper rangers, and the other onethe one he'd called Argastwas shrinking into a xornlike beast with many massive clawed arms instead of tentacles. The shifting body of Argast was flickering with strange magics as Khelben Blackstaff struggled to control spell after spell hurled at the shapeshifter.
Itharr was weeping incoherently now. He stood hip-deep in a gory hole he'd hacked in Amdramnar, and stabbed down endlessly.
None of the armsmen of Connyr saw Storm Silver-hand burst out of the trees, running hard, but they all saw her swarm up the scorpionlike third Malaugrym and plunge her sword deep into ffne of its eyes. It shuddered and convulsed madly under her, and she grimly
ED GREENWOOD
clung to it as she tumbled to the ground, one arm around Sharantyr's broken body.
"Burn it! Burn the things with oil!" she bellowed at the armsmen. She found her feet amid writhing ropes of shapeshifting fleshropes that rose to fling Khelben and Belkram together in a helpless tangle into the gathered armsmen.
The soldiers stared at Storm; who was this woman? An old woman staring at the fray from the door of the Old Skull suddenly tossed away her tankard, plucked down one of the lanterns from beside the inn door, and flung it.
It shattered, spilling oil down the tentacled bulk of Amdramnarand Illistyl murmured the simplest fire spell she knew.
Flames flared. The oil caught, boiling up with a roar. The Malaugrym convulsed and reared, shrieking, and the air was suddenly full of oil as every armsman scrambled to find and fling any lamps they could.
The Malaugrym shrieked as flames rose around them, and through the growing roar of the flames, Belkram cried, "Khelben! Can't you do something for Shar?"
He practically dragged the lord mage of Waterdeep to his feet. Khelben blinked at him, then said grimly, "Erehwell, 111 try."
The archwizard looked at Sharantyr's sprawled body and raised his hands to cast a spellonly to pitch forward, falling on his face in the dirt.
Belkram stared at the man whose pike had struck Khelben down from behind: a warrior of Cormyr, who smiled coldly, shivered slightly for an instant. . . and became someone else.
Someone who wore doomstars at his wrist, and answered to the name of Dhalgrave.
296
19 We, the RangeRS Thr*ee
Blue stones flashed and pulsed, spitting out beams that cut the air to strike Laeral and Storm. The two silver-haired women stiffened as blue fire raged around themand then fell limply to the ground, their eyes dark.
"With the Chosen out of the way," Dhalgrave said almost pleasantly, "I can really enjoy what I came for."
The Shadowmaster High ignored an armsman's sword that thrust through him, and when another warrior thrust a torch in his face, he grew a bone spur and casually stabbed the man through the face. All the while wearing that deadly smile, the senior Malaugrym advanced leisurely toward the weary, panting rangers.
Belkram and Itharr watched him come; they grimly stood their ground, leaning on battered blades. The three Malaugrym burned behind them, and from the flickering flames a weak voice called, "Shadowmaster High! Aid, please, in the name of Malaug! I'm burning! Great Dhalgrave, aid me!"
Dhalgrave never took his eyes from the two rangers, and never paused in his slow, menacing advance. Ar-gast soon fell silent . . . and joined Amdramnar and Lorgyn in death.
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Deep in the Castle of Shadows, in a place where thinking shadows glided, was a grotto. At its heart were two stone seats that faced each other in the bone-white glow. On one of them, something blazed briefly, then burst.
A hand promptly reached down out of darkness to pick up the largest of the fragments and sweep the seat clean , . . and a soft chuckle echoed through the grotto.
Dhalgrave stopped just beyond the reach of the two weary rangers and smiled a gloating smile at the fearful warriors, noting many Purple Dragon surcoats. "All the way from Cormyr, just to die?" he asked in mock sorrow, shaking his head.
From among the warriors, lightning lashed at the Malaugrym, and on his other flank something that looked like a white mist driven by churning human bones rose and drifted speedily toward him.
Dhalgrave simply watched those deaths come for him. The spells faded away as they reached him, and he sketched a mocking bow.
"My thanks, Ladies," he said. "Jhessail and Illistyl, isn't it?" He gestured lazily down at himself. "Unfortunately for your valiant endeavors, I wear a cloak of shadows that wards all your spells . . . and hides me even from the Chosen. I had to 'die' for a time to get it, but watching my underlings scramble to try to take my throne was richly entertaining compensation."
The doomstars lashed out again, and four armsmen were hurled back against their fellows, their bodies trailing blue fire. Blades fell from their hands . . . blades that shone with silver. Sir Tantor Dauntinghorn peered at the dead and trembled with anger, reaching for his own blade.
"No, envoy, keep your life," the Malaugrym told him. "I shall need your services to inform Azoun that the
Purple Dragon throne is mine now. My realm will take in Sembia, too, of course . . . but you won't be bored. Ill be sending all the brave warriors of both lands against Zhentil Keepand none of you shall rest, nor fail me, until that city and all its folk are eradicated."
He took another slow pace forward. "Before all of that, however, I must attend to the business that brought all of the blood of Malaug lately to Faerun ... a little matter of revenge."
Dhalgrave looked at Belkram and Itharr and smiled again. "Your deaths will be slow," he said softly, "very slow." A frown crossed the handsome human face he wore, and he asked the world at large, "I wonder if I can transform them to mushrooms, as that woman did?"
He raised his hands slowly, nodding in sudden satisfaction, and said, "Yes!"
The doomstars hummed, dimmed, and grew still. The Malaugrym began the gestures of a spelland the two Harper rangers erupted into a last desperate charge, swinging their blades as they came.
The cloak Dhalgrave wore spoke.
"Yes, indeed," it agreed, and two gnarled old hands grew out of it on the shapeshifter's flanks, and dug fingers deep into Dhalgravefingers that blazed with spellfire!
The Malaugrym screamed. His hands faltered, the doomstars winking wildly, and the hands literally tore him apart.
Dhalgrave convulsed, struggling to throw out a tentacle here and an eyestalk there amid the spreading spellfireand as the two Harpers came to hasty halts, blades held ready, the Malaugrym sported the long, jagged jaws of a crocodile for just a moment. . . before collapsing into a swirling cloud of ash. What remained was a raging, man-high column of spellfire, with the hands that had slain Dhalgrave protruding from it.
The doomstars spun and winked by themselves in midair for a breath, then drifted obediently into one of
ED GREENWOOD
those old, waiting hands.
As they settled, all of the spellfire seemed to roar down into themand burst in a flash that made unwary men cry out and clutch at their eyes.
Those stricken did not see the beams that lanced out from the destruction of the doomstars to touch Storm, Laeral, and Khelben, and awaken them to vibrant life.
As the Bard of Shadowdale came unsteadily to her feet and reached down to help her sister up, a familiar voice said disgustedly, "Do I have to do everything myself, look ye?"
"Elminster!" Laeral cried delightedly.
The Old Mage puffed one last time on his pipe before calmly tapping out its coals onto the ash that had been the Shadowmaster High.
"But youyou died!" Mourngrym said, laughing, as he shouldered through the armsmen, Shaerl at his side.
"Reports of my death," the Old Mage said solemnly, "have beenahemgreatly exaggerated."
The scrying portal shook as Hulurran's rage almost ended his control over it. "No!" he snarled, but the other two who stood in the shadows with him kept silent. One of them laid a silent tentacle against his cheek for a moment.
After they'd stood staring into Faerun for a long time, Gathran stirred.
"If we could get that cloak," he began, "we"
He fell silent again as, below, Elminster stirred the ashes, held up a tattered scrapand firmly burned it to nothingness with a jet of spellfire from his finger.
"By the blazing blood of Malaug," Hulurran raged in a voice that trembled with emotion, "111 never rest un"
"Hold your wind!" snapped the youngest and smallest of the Malaugrym. "This disaster is born directly of reckless overconfidence . . . even on my father's part."
+ 3OO*
ALL SHADOWS FLED
Huerbara's eyes blazed with resolve as she scattered the scrying portal with one slim tentacle. "We must not actwe must never actagainst folk of Faerun until we are strong, and prepared . . . even for the unexpected. Revenge can be won, yes . . . but it may take years. We must rebuild the House of Malaug first. To do it, 111 need your help."
"You?" Hulurran asked, slack-jawed in disbelief.
Gathran, however, said quietly, "Command me, daughter of Ahorga."
Huerbara nodded to him before turning to the elder shapeshifter. "Are you with me also, Hulurran of the Winds?" The query was soft with menace.
After a long silence, Hulurran nodded. "Aye. Aye, you have fire enough to be Shadowmaster High. I am yours." He turned to meet her gaze squarely, and added, "But we must move very carefully, lest our house be torn apart by strife between you and rivals for the throne."
"Teach me, then," Huerbara said to them both, gliding nearer, "how to move very carefully. . . ."
"Lady, we will," they agreed in chorus, and three sets of eager tentacles met and entwined.
The folk in Shadowdale fortunate enough to survive the events of that morning had seen wonder upon wonder . . . but there were still gasps and mutterings and a shrinking back as a ghostly, silver-haired head came floating over the grass. Gawking dalefolk and weary Cormyreans alike melted out of its path, and stared at the three naked, bedraggled folk who followed it.
"It seems one of the Malaugrym was collecting wizards," Sylun6 told Elminster. "And as both you and Mystra seem to be back with us, we'd best be using these three to bring Sharantyr back."
The Old Mage stared searchingly at the short, fat
3O1
ED GREENWOOD
man and the two women, and they all nodded their agreement. Jhessail and Illistyl pushed through the crowd, and Sir Tantor was jostled aside by Lord Luth-tor, firmly leading a line of war wizards.
"What did you say?" Itharr hissed to Sylune.
Belkram put an arm around his shoulder. Weeping, the rangers watched Khelben, Laeral, and even Storm join the circle of wizards. The mages joined hands around Sharantyr's broken body, then looked to the Old Mage.
Elminster said softly, "Do it."
For a breath or two, it seemed nothing was happening. In silence the wizards stood, unmoving, as warriors craned their necks to look. Next came gasps here and there as folk noticed the radiance silently forming in the air above the circle. Small motes of light twinkled, grew, and shone more brightly. Swiftly the light swelled until a great sphere of white radiance blazed above the wizards.
They heard Elminster and Khelben grunt in unisonand a shaft of light stabbed down from the sphere to strike the still form of Sharantyr.
The wizards trembled, and on the bodies of the three unclad mages the watchers could see sweat streaming. The wizards strained as the beam slowly rose from the ground, taking the lady ranger's body with it.
Through their tears the two Harpers held each other, wild hope leaping within them, and saw the body of their lady disappear into the light.
One of the war wizards cried out, and slumped over, but Luthtor firmly held one of his hands and Irendue clung like grim death to the other, and the circle was not broken. The mages wavered. More than one sagged to his knees, but held fast to the hands of the chain.
Then a great, collective gasp went up from them, the light faded, and out of its heart something sprang.
Something soft and shapely and wholeand alive!
Sharantyr fell from the sky as naked as the day she
ALL SHADOWS FLED
was born, and something seemed to boost her abruptly sidewaysof all the assembly, only Mourngrym saw El-minster's momentary grinin her fall, so that she landed, heavily, atop Belkram.
He went to the ground with a startled "Whumpf!" A moment later, Itharr, Belkram, and Sharantyr were rolling over and over in a happy embrace, weeping and kissing and laughing for joy.
Khelben looked down at them and frowned. "Must they?" he complained to his lady. "And her without a stitch on, too!"
Laeral grinned happily up at the lord mage of Water-deep through the sweat glistening on her faceand bowled him over with her own sudden embrace.
"Whumpf!" Khelben said as he hit the ground. "Get off!" he shouted when he had breath enough to speak again. Grinning faces of armsmen and dalefolk surrounded him. "I said get offT
Shadowdale, Midsummer Night
The fire spat sparks in the kitchen hearth, and Sharantyr put her bare feet up on Storm's kitchen table, crossed one shapely ankle over the other, and sighed in satisfaction. A huge tankard of strong home brew was ready at her elbow, and she was leaning back against Belkram. Itharr smiled and reached out a hand to stroke her foot.
"Ann," Sharantyr said happily, "all this, and we're done with the Malaugrym for now, too!"
"We are," Storm agreed. "Elminster rode the shadows through their castle this afternoon, and tells me it is a place of confusion and back-stabbing disorder. Only three of them know what befell here, and plan any sort of revenge."
"Oh, joy," Belkram said, raising his tankard.
ED GREENWOOD
"Oh, joy, indeed," Storm said with a smile, turning from her cooking cauldron and crossing her arms. Itharr decided not to tell her that her ladle had decided to drip all down her hip. "That means, Harpers bold," she continued briskly, "that it's time for your next assignment."
Belkram choked, and brought his tankard down onto the table with a crash as he sputtered and coughed. There were titters from some of the other Knights at the table.
"Which is?" Itharr asked, giving his companion an amused look.
Storm noticed the spill, ran a finger up her hip, and licked it. "Aid embattled Randal Morn in Daggerdale," she told her ladle.
"A simple matter," Belkram said with airy dignity.
"Well, after battling Malaugrym, aye," Mourngrym agreed, "but you'll no doubt have the lord-devouring Sir Tantor and Luthtor's war wizards to contend with." Shaerl dealt her lord's shoulder a mock blow, and he put an arm around her with a chuckle.
"Does this mean your students are taught, and they'll be leaving Shadowdale?" Sharantyr asked quietly.
Storm nodded. "It does."
Sharantyr swung her feet down from the table and stood up. "Then I have to tell all of you something." She looked around the table at the assembled Knights, from Florin and Dove at one end to Jhessail and her new apprentice, the shyly silent Irendue, at the other. "Whether it costs me my place among you or not, I will go with Belkram and Itharr . . . because"her voice sank almost to a whisper, but she stared across the room at Elminster's encouraging smile, where he sat in a dark corner, and continued steadily"I can't bear to be parted from them."
And as the room erupted with cries of "Well said!" "Of course!" and "A Knight forever, wherever you go!" the tears came.
3O4
ALL SHADOWS FiD
Sharantyr leaned on the table and wept until two pairs of strong arms went around her, and Belkram and Itharr said into her ears in unison, "The Rangers Threeforever!"
The crystal ball glimmered, and Laeral turned away from it with misty eyes and a sigh of satisfaction. "She did the right thing," the lady mage of Waterdeep told Khelben happily. "She's following her heart."
"That's nice," Khelben said absently, his attention deep in a spell tome. Laeral looked at him, shook her head fondly, and grinned impishly as she rose.
Three gliding steps brought her to the table, and a little jump and turn brought her behind down firmly atop the open book, even before her arms went around her man in a fierce embrace.
She fondly kissed the balding pate of the lord mage of Waterdeep, and felt his muffled roar as he snarled into her bosom, "Get off! I said, get off!"
It was very late when the floating, disembodied head said to Elminster, "You promised me another body of my own, Old Mage."
"Aye," he said as they stood together in the dusty, paper-choked main room of his tower. "Would n"
The front door flew open, startling them both, and a wild-eyed woman, garbed in the black tatters of a once fine gown, strode in. Without slowing, the Simbul smiled at Sylune, took Elminster's hand in her own, and practically snatched him up the stairs to the bedchamber.
"My body?" Sylune asked softly.
"It will be the first act I set him to when we awaken," the Simbul told her sister as they vanished around the
ED GREENWOOD
ALL SHADOWS FLED
first curve of the stair. "I'll see to it."
"Perhaps I should get to it now," Elminster's voice came floating down the stairs, sounding a trifle anxious.
"I have other uses for you first," the Simbul told him fiercely. "Gods, El, I've missed you!"
Her arms went around him hungrily. In the room below, Sylune listened, a smile growing on her face. Then she chuckled softly, and flew out into the night.
Lhaeo bid her a pleasant night as she drifted down the path. The floating head turned to face him. "Lhaeo? I thought you were abed!"
"I was," Elminster's scribe said dryly, "until the Queen of Aglarond arrived. Then I suddenly found myself dressed, awake, and out herewith this bottle of elverquisst to keep me company." He sipped at the glass in his hand and sighed appreciatively. "Superb stuff."
Sylune hesitated, looking out over the moon-drenched, placid pool toward the flickering torches on the walls of the Tower of Ashaba. "Would you mind if I stayed to talk for a bit?"
The scribe looked up at her. "Lady," he said softly, "I would be honored. Stay with me so long as it pleases you." He drained his glass and added slyly, "You can tell me what it's like to get a head in this world!"
The floating head growled at him. "You may be surprised to learn," the Witch of Shadowdale said sweetly as she drifted nearer, "that I can still tickle."
"Ah, no," Lhaeo said with a groan, putting his glass carefully out of harm's way. "No . . ."
The farmhouse shook, and the night outside was briefly as bright as day.
"What was that?" Mourngrym snarled.
There was a confused snatching at weapons and a rush to the door.
The Rangers Three, Storm, and the lord and lady of
Shadowdale reached the flagstone path outside Storm's house in time to see a bright stream of stars rising from Elminster's Tower, in the wake of a radiant orb in which two familiar figures danced and swam. They heard a happy, wordless cry before the sphere that held Elminster and the Simbul turned suddenly and streaked away northward, into the stars.
"Gods above," Itharr said wonderingly. He turned his head and saw Sharantyr's awed face looking up into the sky beside his. Leaning close, he asked quietly, "Do you think we could try that?"
Still watching the distant sphere dwindle into the night, Sharantyr drew back her arm and punched him enthusiastically.
Shaerl and Storm hooted with laughter.
:	The moonlight of another night washed down over the ruined pillars and walls of Irythkeep. Itharr looked up at Selune, yawned, and said, "High time for slum-\      ber."
'	A slim lady rose from banking the fire beside him, took his chin in her hands, and kissed him fondly. "The *.     watch is mine, of course, O King of Snorers," the Witch of Shadowdale told him, and patted his arm. "Go on."
"Are you sure?" Belkram asked sleepily, coming out of the tent with Sharantyr's leathers and his own, to drape them over a line for the night.
"I don't need to sleep, remember?" Sylune told him.
Both Harpers nodded, more asleep than awake, and said, more or less in chorus, "May the night be good, then." They turned together to go into the tent where Shar was already lost in slumberand bumped together.
"Ugliness first," Belkram said, indicating the tent mouth.
"Stupidity first," Itharr countered, waving his friend
3O7
ED GREENWOOD
toward the sleeping furs.
"Pigheaded Harpers first," a smiling Sylune said in both their ears, and shoved at their backs. They fell into the tent in a chuckling heap, and the Witch of Shadowdale turned away to look out over Daggerdale, a smile on her face.
"Sharantyr's first child, at least," Azuth said softly as the two gods stood together by the fire, magically hidden from mortals and Chosen, "will be thine."
Midnight nodded. "She'll need to be strong, and soon . . . magic may be biddable again, and the gods back in their places."
The goddess sighed then, and added almost in a whisper, "More than that: Elminster cannot last forever."
308
About the Author
Ed Greenwood created the FORGOTTEN REALMS world in the midseventies as the setting for his home AD&D campaign. After numerous articles in DRAGON magazine, his world had attracted enough of a following to justify TSR's purchase of it. From his home in Canada, Ed has been fleshing out the Realms ever since.