   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




CONTENTS
Chapter One
Chapter Two
Chapter Three
Chapter Four
Chapter Five
Chapter Six
Chapter Seven
Chapter Eight
Chapter Nine
Chapter Ten
Chapter Eleven
Chapter Twelve
Chapter Thirteen
Chapter Fourteen
Chapter Fifteen
Chapter Sixteen
Chapter Seventeen
Chapter Eighteen
Chapter Nineteen
Chapter Twenty
Chapter Twenty-One
Chapter Twenty-Two
Chapter Twenty-Three
Chapter Twenty-Four
About the Author




A TERRIBLE HOWL ECHOED THROUGH
THE PASS.
 A massive, eight-legged lupine form dropped down on Rhonin. Had he been other than what he was, the
wizard would have perished there, the meal of a savage, saber-toothed creature with four gleaming green
eyes to go with its eight, clawed limbs. The monstrous wolf-creature brought him down, but Rhonin,
having magicked his garments to better protect him from the elements, proved a hard nut to crack. The
claws scraped at a cloak they should have readily tattered, only to have instead one nail snap off.

 Gray fur standing on end, the beast howled its frustration. Rhonin took the opening, casting a simple but
effective spell that had saved him in the past.

A cacophony of light burst before the creature’s emerald orbs, both blinding and startling it. It ducked
back, swatting uselessly at flashing patterns.

Dragging himself out of reach, Rhonin rose. There was no chance of flight; that would only serve to turn
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




his back on the beast and his protective spell was already weakening. A few more slashes and the claws
would be ripping the wizard to the bone.

 Fire had worked against the ghoul on the island and Rhonin saw no reason why such a tried and true
spell would not benefit him again. He muttered the words—

And suddenly they came out in reverse. Worse, Rhonin found himself moving backward, returning to the
wild claws of the blinded beast.

Time had turned in on itself…but how?




 This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are products of the author’s
imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons living or dead
is entirely coincidental.

AnOriginal Publication of POCKET BOOKS

                                                       POCKET BOOKS, a division of Simon &
                                                       Schuster, Inc.
                                                       1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY
                                                       10020
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Copyright © 2004 by Blizzard Entertainment. All rights reserved. Warcraft and Blizzard Entertainment
are trademarks or registered trademarks of Blizzard Entertainment in the U.S. and/or other countries. All
other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever.
For information address Pocket Books, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020

ISBN: 0-7434-8902-0

POCKET and colophon are registered trademarks of Simon & Schuster, Inc.

Visit us on the World Wide Web:
http://www.SimonSays.com

For Martin Fajkus and my readers

throughout the world.

THE WELL OF ETERNITY


 ONE
 The tall, forbidding palace perched atop the very edge of the mountainous cliff, overlooking so
precariously the vast, black body of water below that it appeared almost ready to plummet into the
latter’s dark depths. When first the vast, walled edifice had been constructed, using magic that melded
both stone and forest into a single, cohesive form, it had been a wonder to touch the heart of any who
saw it. Its towers were trees strengthened by rock, with jutting spires and high, open windows. The walls
were volcanic stone raised up, then bound tightly by draping vines and giant roots. The main palace at the
center had originally been created by the mystical binding of more than a hundred giant, ancient trees.
Bent in together, they had formed the skeleton of the rounded center, over which the stone and vines had
been set.

A wonder to touch the hearts of all when first it had been built, now it touched the fears of some. An
unsettling aura enshrouded it, one heightened this stormy night. The few who peered at the ancient edifice
now quickly averted their gaze.

 Those who looked instead to the waters below it found no peace, either. The ebony lake was now in
violent, unnatural turmoil. Churning waves as high as the palace rose and fell in the distance, crashing with
a roar. Lightning played over its vast body, lightning gold, crimson, or the green of decay. Thunder
rumbled like a thousand dragons and those who lived around its shores huddled close, uncertain as to
what sort of storm might be unleashed.

 On the walls surrounding the palace, ominous guards in forest-green armor and wielding lances and
swords glared warily about. They watched not only beyond the walls for foolish trespassers, but on
occasion surreptitiously glanced within…particularly at the main tower, where they sensed unpredictable
energies at play.

And in that high tower, in a stone chamber sealed from the sight of those outside, tall, narrow figures in
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




iridescent robes of turquoise, embroidered with stylized, silver images of nature, bent over a six-sided
pattern written into the floor. At the center of the pattern, symbols in a language archaic even to the
wielders flared with lives of their own.

 Glittering, silver eyes with no pupils stared out from under the hoods as the night elves muttered the spell.
Their dark, violet skin grew covered in sweat as the magic within the pattern amplified. All but one
looked weary, ready to succumb to exhaustion. That one, overseeing the casting, watched the process
not with silver orbs like the rest, but rather false black ones with streaks of ruby running horizontal along
the centers. But despite the false eyes, he noted every detail, every inflection by the others. His long,
narrow face, narrow even for an elf, wore an expression of hunger and anticipation as he silently drove
them on.

 One other watched all of this, drinking in every word and gesture. Seated on a luxurious chair of ivory
and leather, her rich, silver hair framing her perfect features and the silken gown—as golden as her
eyes—doing the same for her exquisite form, she was every inch the vision of a queen. She leaned back
against the chair, sipping wine from a golden goblet. Her jeweled bracelets tinkled as her hand moved
and the ruby in the tiara she wore glistened in the light of the sorcerous energies the others had
summoned.

 Now and then her gaze shifted ever so slightly to study the dark-eyed figure, her full lips pursing in
something approaching suspicion. Yet, when once he suddenly glanced her way, as if sensing her
observation, all suspicion vanished, replaced by a languid smile.

The chanting continued.

The black lake churned madly.



There had been a war and it had ended.

So, Krasus knew, history would eventually record what had happened. Almost lost in that recording
would be the countless personal lives destroyed, the lands ravaged, and the near-destruction of the entire
mortal world.

 Even the memories of dragons are fleeting under such circumstances,the pale, gray-robed figure
conceded to himself. He understood that very well, for although to most eyes he resembled a lanky,
almost elven figure with hawklike features, silvering hair, and three long scars traveling down his right
cheek, he was much more than that. To most, he was known as a wizard, but to a select few he was
calledKorialstrasz —a name only a dragon would wear.

 Krasus had been born a dragon, a majestic red one, the youngest of the great Alexstrasza’s consorts.
She, the Aspect of Life, was his dearest companion…yet once again he dragged himself away from her
to study the plights and futures of the short-lived races.

In the hidden, rock-hewn abode he had chosen for his new sanctum, Krasus looked over the world of
Azeroth. The gleaming emerald crystal enabled him to see whatever land, whatever individual, he desired.

And everywhere that the dragon mage looked, he saw devastation.

It seemed as if it had only been a few years ago when the grotesque, green-skinned behemoths called
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




orcs, who had invaded the world from beyond, were defeated. With their remaining numbers kept in
encampments, Krasus had believed the world ready for peace. Yet, that peace had been short-lived. The
Alliance—the human-led coalition that had been the forefront of the resistance—had immediately begun
to crumble, its members vying for power over one another. Part of that had been the fault of dragons—or
theone dragon, Deathwing—but much had simply been the greed and desire of humans, dwarves, and
elves.

Yet, even that would have passed with little concern if not for the coming of the Burning Legion.

 Today, Krasus surveyed distant Kalimdor, located on the far side of the sea. Even now, areas of it
resembled a land after a terrible volcanic eruption. No life, no semblance of civilization, remained in those
areas. It had not been any natural force, however, that had rent the land so. The Burning Legion had left
nothing in its wake but death.

 The fiery demons had come from a place beyond reality. Magic was what they sought, magic they
devoured. Attacking in conjunction with their monstrous pawns, the Undead Scourge, they had thought
to lay waste to the world. Yet, they had not counted on the most unlikely alliance of all…

The orcs, once also their puppets, had turned on them. They had joined the humans, elves, dwarves, and
dragons to decimate the demonic warriors and ghoulish beasts and push the remnants back into the
hellish beyond. Thousands had perished, but the alternative…

The dragon mage snorted. In truth, there had beenno alternative.

 Krasus waved long, tapering fingers over the orb, summoning a vision of the orcs. The view blurred
momentarily, then revealed a mountainous, rocky area further inland. A harsh land, but one still full of life
and capable of supporting the new colonists.

 Already, several stone structures had risen in the main settlement, where the Warchief and one of the
heroes of the war, Thrall, ruled. The high, rounded edifice that served as his quarters was crude by the
standards of any other race, but orcs had a propensity toward basics. Extravagance to an orc was having
a permanent place to live at all. They had been nomads or prisoners for so long that the concept of
“home” had been all but lost.

 Several of the massive, greenish figures tilled a field. Watching the tusked, brutish-looking workers,
Krasus marveled at the concept of orc farmers. Thrall, however, was a highly unusual orc and he had
readily grasped the ideas that would return stability to his people.

 Stability was something the entire world needed badly. With another wave of his hand, the dragon mage
dismissed Kalimdor, summoning now a much closer location—the once proud capital of his favored
Dalaran. Ruled by the wizards of the Kirin Tor, the prime wielders of magic, it had been at the forefront
of the Alliance’s battle against the Burning Legion in Lordaeron and one of the first and most prized
targets of the demons in turn.

 Dalaran lay half in ruins. The once-proud spires had been all but shattered. The great libraries burned.
Countless generations of knowledge had been lost…and with them countless lives. Even the council had
suffered badly. Several of those Krasus had counted as friends or at least respected colleagues had been
slain. The leadership was in disarray and he knew that he would have to step in to lend a hand. Dalaran
needed to speak with one voice, if only to keep what remained of the splintered Alliance intact.

Yet, despite the turmoil and tribulations still ahead, the dragon did have hope. The problems of the world
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




were surmountable ones. No more fear of orcs, no more fear of demons. Azeroth would struggle, but in
the end, Krasus not only thought it would survive, he fully believed it would thrive.

 He dismissed the emerald crystal and rose. The Dragon Queen, his beloved Alexstrasza, would be
awaiting him. She suspected his desire to return to help the mortal world and, of all dragons, she most
understood. He would transform to his true self, bid her farewell—for a time—and depart before regrets
held him back.

 His sanctum he had chosen not only for its seclusion, but also for its massiveness. Stepping from the
smaller chamber, Krasus entered a toothy cavern whose heights readily matched the now lost towers of
Dalaran. An army could have bivouacked in the cavern and not filled it.

Just the right size for a dragon.

Krasus stretched his arms…and as he did, his tapering fingers lengthened further, becoming taloned. His
back arched and from near the shoulders erupted twin growths that quickly transformed into fledgling
wings. His long features stretched, turning reptilian.

 Throughout all these lesser changes, Krasus’s form expanded. He became four, five, even ten times the
size of a man and continued to grow. Any semblance to a human or elf quickly faded.

From wizard, Krasus became Korialstrasz, dragon.

But—in the very midst of the transformation—a desperate voice suddenly filled his head.

Kor…strasz…

 He faltered, all but reverting to his wizardly form. Krasus blinked, then stared around the huge chamber
as if seeking the source of the cry there.

Nothing. The dragon mage waited and waited, but the call did not repeat.

Shrugging it off to his own uncertainties, he commenced again with the transformation—

And again, the desperate voice criedKorialstra…

This time…he recognized it. Immediately, he responded in kind.I hear you! What is it you need of me?

 There was no response, but Krasus sensed the desperation remaining. Focusing, he tried to reach out,
establish a link with the one who so badly needed his aid—the one who should have needed no aid from
any creature.

I am here!the dragon mage demanded.Sense me! Give me some indication of what is wrong!

 He felt the barest touch in return, a faint hinting of some distress. Krasus concentrated every iota of his
thoughts into the meager link, hoping…hoping…

 The overpowering presence of a dragon whose magic dwarfed his own a thousandfold sent Krasus
staggering. A sensation of centuries, of great age, engulfed him. Krasus felt as if Time itself now
surrounded him in all its terrible majesty.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Not Time…not quite…but he who was the Aspect of Time.

The Dragon of the Ages…Nozdormu.

 There were only four great dragons, four Great Aspects, of which his beloved Alexstrasza was Life.
Mad Malygos was Magic and ethereal Ysera influenced Dreams. They, along with brooding Nozdormu,
represented creation itself.

 Krasus grimaced. In truth, there had beenfive Aspects. The fifth had once been called Neltharion…the
Earth Warder. But long ago, in a time even Krasus could not recall clearly, Neltharion had betrayed his
fellows. The Earth Warder had turned on them and in the process had garnered a new, more appropriate
title.

Deathwing. The Destroyer.

 The very thought of Deathwing stirred Krasus from his astonishment. He absently touched the three
scars on his cheek. Had Deathwing returned to plague the world again? Was that why the great
Nozdormu would show such distress?

 I hear you!Krasus mentally called back, now more than ever fearful of the reason for the call.I hear you!
Is it—is it the Destroyer?

 But in response, he was once again buffeted by an overwhelming series of astonishing images. The
images burnt themselves into his head, making it impossible for Krasus to ever forget any.

In either form, Krasus, however adaptable and capable, was no match for the unbridled power of an
Aspect. The force of the other dragon’s mental might flung him back against the nearest wall, where the
mage collapsed.

 It took several minutes for Krasus to push himself up from the floor and even then his head spun.
Fragmented thoughts not his own assailed his senses. It was all he could do for a time just to remain
conscious.

 Slowly, though, things stabilized enough for him to realize the scope of all that had just happened.
Nozdormu, Lord of Time, had been desperately crying out for aid…hisaid. He had turned specifically to
the lesser dragon, not one of his compatriots.

But anything that would so distress an Aspect could only be a monumental threat to the rest of Azeroth.
Why then choose a lone red dragon and not Alexstrasza or Ysera?

 He tried once more to reach the great dragon, but his efforts only made his head swim again. Steadying
himself, Krasus tried to decide what to do instead. One image in particular constantly demanded his
attention, the image of a snow-swept mountain area in Kalimdor. Whatever Nozdormu had sought to
explain to him had to do with that desolate region.

 Krasus would have to investigate it, but he would need capable assistance, someone who could adapt
readily. While Krasus prided himself on his own ability to adapt well, his species was, for the most part,
obstinate and set in its ways. He needed someone who would listen, but who could also react instantly as
unfolding events required. No, for such unpredictable effort, only one creature would serve. A human.

In particular, a human named Rhonin.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




A wizard…



 And in Kalimdor, on the steppes of the wild country, a grizzled, aged orc leaned close over a smoky
fire. Mumbling words whose origins lay on another, long-lost world, the moss-green figure tossed some
leaves upon the fire, increasing the already thick smoke. Fumes filled his humble wood and earth hut.

 The bald, elderly orc leaned over and inhaled. His weary brown eyes were veined and his skin hung in
sacks. His teeth were yellow, chipped, and one of his tusks had been broken off years before. He could
scarcely rise without aid and when he walked, he did so stooped and slow.

Yet, even the hardiest warrior paid him fealty as shaman.

A bit of bone dust, a touch of tannar berries…all part of a tried and true tradition resurrected among the
orcs. Kalthar’s father had taught him all even during the dark years of the Horde, just as Kalthar’s
grandsire had taught his father before that.

And now, for the first time, the withered shaman found himself hoping he had been taught well.

Voices murmured in his head, the spirits of the world that the orcs now called home. Normally, they
whispered little things, life things, but now they murmured anxiously, warning…warning…

But of what? He had to know more.

Kalthar reached into a pouch at his waist, removing three dried, black leaves. They were almost all of
what remained from a single plant brought with him from the orcs’ ancient world. Kalthar had been
warned not to use them unless he deemed it truly necessary. His father had never used them, nor his
grandfather.

The shaman tossed them into the flames.

 Instantly the smoke turned a thick, swirling blue. Not black, but blue. The orc’s brow furrowed at this
change of color, then he leaned forward again and inhaled as much as possible.

 The world transformed, and with it the orc. He had become a bird, a huge avian soaring over the
landscape. He flew over mountains without a care. With his eyes he saw the tiniest animals, the most
distant rivers. A sense of exhilaration not felt since his youth almost overwhelmed Kalthar, but he fought
it. To give in would risk him losing his sense of self. He might fly forever as a bird, never knowing what he
had once been.

 Even as he thought that, Kalthar suddenly noted a wrongness in the nature of the world, possibly the
reason for the voices’ concern. Somethingwas that should not be. He veered in the direction that felt
correct, growing more anxious as he drew nearer.

And just within the deepest part of the mountain range, the shaman discovered the source of his anxiety.

His learned mind knew that he envisioned a concept, not the actual thing. To Kalthar, it appeared as a
water funnel—yet one that swallowed and disgorged simultaneously. But what emerged or sank into its
depths were days and nights, months and years. The funnel seemed to be eating and emitting time itself.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The notion so staggered the shaman that he did not notice until almost too late that the funnel now sought
to drawhim in as well.

 Immediately, Kalthar strained to free himself. He flapped his wings, pushed with his muscles. His mind
reached out to his physical form, tugging hard at the gossamer link tying body to soul and trying to break
the trance.

Still the funnel drew him forward.

 In desperation, Kalthar called upon the spirit guides, prayed to them to strengthen him. They came as he
knew they would, but at first they seemed to act too slow. The funnel filled his view, seemed ready to
engulf him—

 The world abruptly twisted around the shaman. The funnel, the mountains…everything turned about and
about.

With a gasp, Kalthar awoke.

 Exhausted beyond his years, he barely kept himself from falling face first into the fire. The voices that
constantly murmured had faded away. The orc sat on the floor of his hut, trying to reassure himself that,
yes, he now existed whole in the mortal world. The spirit guides had saved him, albeit barely in time.

But with that happy reassurance came the reminder of what he had witnessed in his vision…and what it
meant.

“I must tell Thrall…” he muttered, forcing weary, aged legs up. “I must tell him quick…else we lose our
home…our world…again…”

TWO


An ominous portent,Rhonin decided, vivid green eyes gazing at the results of his divining.Any wizard
would recognize it as so.

“Are you certain?” Vereesa called from the other room. “Have you checked your reading?”

The red-haired mage nodded, then grimaced when he realized that of course the elf could not see him.
He would have to tell her face to face. She deserved that.I pray she is strong.

 Clad in dark blue pants and jacket, both gold-trimmed, Rhonin looked more like a politician than a mage
these days, but the past few years had demanded as much diplomacy from him as magic. Diplomacy had
never been an easy thing for him, who preferred to go charging into a situation. With his thick mane of
hair and his short beard, he had a distinct leonine appearance that so well matched his temper when
forced to parlay with pampered, arrogant ambassadors. His nose, broken long ago and never—by his
own choice—properly fixed, further added to his fiery reputation.

“Rhonin…is there something you have not told me?”

 He could leave her waiting no longer. She had to know the truth, however terrible it might be. “I’m
coming, Vereesa.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Putting away his divining instruments, Rhonin took a deep breath, then rejoined the elf. Just within the
entrance, though, he paused. All Rhonin could see was her face—a beautiful, perfect oval upon which
had been artfully placed alluring, almond-shaped eyes of pure sky blue, a tiny, upturned nose, and an
enticing mouth seemingly always halfway to a smile. Framing that face was a rich head of silver-white hair
that, had she been standing, would have hung nearly to the small of her back. She could have passed yet
for a human if not for the long, tapering ears jutting from the hair, pointed ears marking her race.

“Well?” she asked, patiently.

“It’s…it’s to be twins.”

Her face lit up, if anything becoming more perfect in his eyes. “Twins! How fortuitous! How wonderful! I
was so certain!”

 She adjusted her position on the wooden bed. The slim but curved elven ranger now lay several months
pregnant. Gone were her breastplate and leather armor. Now she wore a silver gown that did not at all
conceal the imminent birth.

 They should have guessed from the quickness with which she had shown, but Rhonin had wanted to
deny it. They had been wed only a few months when she had discovered her condition. Both were
concerned then, for not only had their marriage been one so very rare in the annals of history, but no one
had ever recorded a successful human-elven birth.

And now they expected not one child, but two.

“I don’t think you understand, Vereesa.Twins! Twins from a mage and an elf!”

 But her face continued to radiate pleasure and wonder. “Elves seldom give birth and we very, very
rarely give birth to twins, my love! They will be destined for great things!”

Rhonin could not hide his sour expression. “I know. That’s what worries me…”

 He and Vereesa had lived through their own share of “great things.” Thrown together to penetrate the
orc stronghold of Grim Batol during the last days of the war against the Horde, they had faced not just
orcs, but dragons, goblins, trolls, and more. Afterward, they had journeyed from realm to realm,
becoming ambassadors of sorts whose task it had been to remind the Alliance of the importance of
remaining intact. That had not meant, however, that they had not risked their lives during that time, for the
peace following that war had been unstable at best.

Then, without warning, had come the Burning Legion.

 By that time, what had started as a partnership of two wary agents had become a binding of two unlikely
souls. In the war against the murderous demons, the mage and the ranger had fought as much for each
other as for their lands. More than once, they had thought one another dead and the pain felt had been
unbearable to each.

 Perhaps the pain of losing each other had seemed worse because of all those other loved ones who had
already perished. Both Dalaran and Quel’Thalas had been razed by the Undead Scourge, thousands
slaughtered by the decaying abominations serving the dread Lich King, who in turn served the cause of
the Legion. Entire towns perished horribly and matters were made worse by the fact that many of the
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




victims soon rose from the dead, their cursed mortal shells now added to the ranks of the Scourge.

 What little that remained of Rhonin’s family had perished early in the war. His mother had been long
dead, but his father, brother, and two cousins had all been slain in the fall of the city of Andorhal.
Fortunately, the desperate defenders, seeing no hope of rescue, had set the city ablaze. Even the Scourge
could not raise warriors from ash.

He had not seen any of them—not even his father—since entering the ranks of wizardry, but Rhonin had
discovered an emptiness in his heart when the news had arrived. The rift between himself and his
kin—caused in great part because of his chosen calling—had vanished in that instant. All that had
mattered at the time was that he had become the last of his family. He was all alone.

 Alone until he realized that the feelings he had developed for the brave elven ranger at his side were
reciprocated.

 When the terrible struggle had finally played out, there had been only one logical path for the two of
them. Despite the horrified voices emanating from both Vereesa’s people and Rhonin’s wizardly masters,
the two had chosen to never be parted again. They had sealed a pact of marriage and tried to begin as
normal a life as two such as they could possibly have in a world torn asunder.

Naturally,thought the mage bitterly,peace for us wasn’t meant to be.

Vareesa pushed herself from the bed before he could help her. Even so near the time of birth, the elf
moved with assured swiftness. The elf took hold of Rhonin by the shoulders.

“You wizards! Always seeing the dire! I thought my own people were so gloomy! My love, this will be a
happy birth, a happy pair of children! We will make it so!”

 He knew that she made sense. Neither would do anything that would risk the infants. When the two had
realized her condition, they ceased their own efforts to help rebuild the shattered Alliance and settled in
one of the most peaceful regions left, near enough to shattered Dalaran but not too near. They lived in a
modest but not completely humble home and the people of the nearby town respected them.

Her confidence and hope still amazed him, considering her own losses. If Rhonin had felt a hole in his
heart after losing family he had barely known anymore, Vereesa surely had felt a gaping chasm open in
her own. Quel’Thalas, more leg endary and surely more secure than even the magic-ruled Dalaran, had
been utterly ravaged. Elven strongholds untouched by centuries had fallen in mere days, their once-proud
people added to the Scourge as easily as the mere humans. Among the latter had been included several
of Vereesa’s own close-knit clan…and a few from her very family.

 From her grandfather she had heard of his desperate battle to slay the ghoulish corpse of his own son,
her uncle. From him she had also heard how her younger brother had been ripped apart by a hungering
mob of undead led by their own elder brother, who later had been set afire and destroyed along with the
rest of the Scourge by the surviving defenders. What had happened to her parents, no one yet knew, but
they, too, were presumed dead.

And what Rhonin had not told her…might never dare tell her…was of the monstrous rumors he had
heard concerning one of Vereesa’s two sisters, Sylvanas.

Vereesa’s other sister, the great Alleria, had been a hero during the Second War. But Sylvanas, she
whom Rhonin’s wife had sought to emulate her entire life, had, as Ranger General, led the battle against
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




the betrayer—Arthas, prince of Lordaeron. Once the shining hope of his land, now the twisted servant of
the Legion and the Scourge, he had ravaged his own kingdom, then led the undead horde against the
elven capital of Silvermoon. Sylvanas had blocked his path at every juncture and for a time, it had
seemed that she would actually defeat him. But where the shambling corpses, sinister gargoyles, and
gruesome abominations had failed, the dark necromancy granted the traitorous noble had succeeded.

 The official version had Sylvanas dying valiantly as she prevented Arthas’s minions from slaying
Silvermoon’s people. The elven leaders, even Vereesa’s grandfather, claimed that the Ranger General’s
body had burned in the same fire that had devastated half the capital. Certainly there had been no trace
left.

 But while the story ended there for Vereesa, Rhonin, through sources in both the Kirin Tor and
Quel’Thalas, had discovered word of Sylvanas that left him chilled. A surviving ranger, his mind half
gone, had babbled of his general being captured, not killed. She had been horribly mutilated, then finally
slain for the pleasure of Arthas. Finally, taking her body up in the dark temple he had raised in his
madness, the prince had corrupted her soul and corpse, transforming her from heroic elf into a harbinger
of evil…a haunting, mournful phantom called a banshee that still supposedly roamed the ruins of
Quel’Thalas.

 Rhonin had so far been unable to verify the rumors, but he felt certain that they had more than a grain of
truth. He prayed that Vereesa would never hear the story.

 So many tragedies…small wonder that Rhonin could not shake his uncertainty when it came to his new
family.

He sighed. “Perhaps when they’re born, I’ll be better. I’m likely just nervous.”

 “Which should be the sign of a caring parent.” Vereesa returned to the bed. “Besides, we are not alone
in this. Jalia aids much.”

 Jalia was an elder, full-bodied woman who had given birth to six children and midwifed several times
that number. Rhonin had been certain that a human would be leery of dealing with an elf—let alone an elf
with a wizard for a husband—but Jalia had taken one look at Vereesa and her maternal instincts had
taken over. Even though Rhonin did pay her well for her time, he very much suspected that the
townswoman would have volunteered anyway, so much had she taken to his wife.

“I suppose you’re right,” he began. “I’ve just been—”

A voice…a very familiar voice…suddenly filled his head.

A voice that could not be bringing him good tidings.

Rhonin…I have need of you.

“Krasus?” the mage blurted.

Vereesa sat up, all cheer vanishing. “Krasus? What about him?”

 They both knew the master wizard, a member of the Kirin Tor. Krasus had been the one instrumental in
bringing them together. He had also been the one who had not told them the entire truth about matters at
the time, especially where he himself had been concerned.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Only through dire circumstance had they discovered that he was also the dragon Korialstrasz.

“It’s…it’s Krasus,” was all Rhonin could say at the moment.

Rhonin…I have need of you…

I won’t help you!the mage instantly responded.I’ve done my share! You know I can’t leave her now…

 “What does he want?” Vereesa demanded. Like the wizard, she knew that Krasus would only contact
them if some terrible trouble had arisen.

“It doesn’t matter! He’ll have to find someone else!”

Before you reject me, let me show you…the voice declared.Let me show both of you…

 Before Rhonin could protest, images filled his head. He relived Krasus’s astonishment at being contacted
by the Lord of Time, experienced the dragon mage’s shock when the Aspect’s desperation became
evident. Everything Krasus had experienced, the wizard and his wife now shared.

Last of all, Krasus overwhelmed them with an image of the place the other believed the source of
Nozdormu’s distress, a chill and forbidding chain of jagged mountains.

Kalimdor.

The entire vision lasted only a few seconds, but it left Rhonin exhausted. He heard a gasp from the bed.
Turning, the wizard found Vereesa slumped back on the down pillow.

He started toward her, but she waved off his concern. “I am all right! Just…breathless. Give me a
moment…”

 For her Rhonin would give eternity, but for another he had not even a second to grant. Summoning the
image of Krasus into his head, the wizard replied,Take your quests to someone else! Those days are
through for me! I’ve got far more important matters at stake!

 Krasus said nothing and Rhonin wondered if his response had sent his former patron searching for
another pawn. He respected Krasus, even liked him, but the Rhonin the dragon mage sought no longer
existed. Only his family concerned him now.

 But to his surprise, the one he expected most to stand by him instead suddenly muttered, “You will have
to go immediately, of course.”

He stared at Vereesa. “I’m not going anywhere!”

 She straightened again. “But you must. You saw what I saw. He does not summon you for some
frivolous task! Krasus is extremely worried…and what worrieshim puts fear intome.”

“But I can’t leave you now!” Rhonin fell down on one knee next to her. “I will not leave you, or them!”

A hint of her ranger past spread across Vareesa’s face. Eyes narrowing dangerously at whatever
mysterious force would separate them, she answered, “And the last thing I would wish would be for you
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




to thrust yourself into danger! I do not desire to sacrifice my children’s father, but what we have seen
hints at a terrible threat to the world they will be born in! For that reason alone, it makes sense to go.
Were I not in this condition, I would be right at your side, you know that.”

“Of course I do.”

“I tell myself that he is strong, Krasus is. Even stronger as Korialstrasz! I tell myself that I let you go only
because you and he will be together. You know he would not ask if he did not think you capable.”

That was true. Dragons respected few mortal creatures. That Krasus in either form looked to him for aid
meant a great deal…and as an ally of the leviathan, Rhonin would be better protected than anyone.

What could go wrong?

Defeated, Rhonin nodded. “All right. I’ll go. Can you handle matters until Jalia arrives?”

“With my bow, I have shot orcs dead at a hundred yards. I have battled trolls, demons, and more. I
have nearly traveled the length and breadth of Azeroth…yes, my love, I think I can handle the situation
until Jalia arrives.”

 He leaned down and kissed her. “Then I’d best let Krasus know I’ll be coming. For a dragon, he’s an
impatient sort.”

“He has taken the burden of the world upon his shoulders, Rhonin.”

That still did not make the wizard overly sympathetic. An ageless dragon was far more capable of
dealing with terrible crises than a mere mortal spellcaster about to become a father.

 Fixing on an image of the dragon mage as he knew him best, Rhonin reached out to his former patron.All
right, Krasus. I’ll help you. Where should we rendez—

 Darkness enveloped the wizard. Off in the distance, he heard Vereesa’s faint voice call out his name. A
sense of vertigo threatened Rhonin.

His boots suddenly clattered on hard rock. Every bone in his body shook from the impact and it was all
he could do to keep his legs from collapsing.

Rhonin stood in a massive cave clearly hollowed out by more than simply the whims of nature. The roof
was almost a perfect oval and the walls had been scorched smooth. A dim illumination with no
discernible source enabled him to see the lone, robed figure awaiting him in the center.

“So…” Rhonin managed. “I guess we rendezvous here.”

Krasus stretched one long, gloved hand to the left. “There is a pack containing rations and water for
you, just to your side. Take it and follow me.”

“I barely had a chance to say good-bye to my wife…” grumbled Rhonin as he retrieved the large leather
pack and looped it over his shoulders.

 “You have my sympathies,” the dragon mage responded, walking ahead already. “I have made
arrangements to see to it that she is not without aid. She will be well while we are gone.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Listening to Krasus for just a few seconds reminded Rhonin how often the ancient figure made
assumptions about him without even waiting for the young wizard’s decisions. Krasus had already taken
the matter of Rhonin’s agreement as settled.

 He followed the tall, narrow figure to the mouth of the vast cave. That Krasus had moved his lair since
the war with the orcs Rhonin had known, but exactly where he had moved was another question. Now
the human saw that the cavern overlooked a familiar set of mountains, ones not at all that far off from his
own home. Unlike their counterparts in Kalimdor, these mountains had a majestic beauty to them, not a
sense of dread.

“We’re almost neighbors,” he remarked dryly.

 “A coincidence, but it made bringing you here possible. Had I sought you from the lair of my queen, the
spellwork would have been much more depleting and I have every wish of retaining as much of my
power as possible.”

The tone with which he spoke drained Rhonin of all animosity. Never had he heard such concern from
Krasus. “You spoke of Nozdormu, the Aspect of Time. Have you managed to contact him again?”

“No…and that is why we must take every precaution. In fact, we must not use magic to transport
ourselves to the location. We will have to fly.”

“But if we don’t use magic, how can we possibly fly—”

 Krasus spread his arms…and as he did, they transformed, becoming scaled and taloned. His body grew
rapidly and wide, leathery wings formed. Krasus’s narrow visage stretched, twisted, becoming reptilian.

“Of course,” Rhonin muttered. “How silly of me.”

Korialstrasz the dragon peered down at his tiny companion.

“Climb atop, Rhonin. We must be off.”

 The wizard reluctantly obeyed, recalling from times past the best manner with which to seat himself. He
slipped his feet under crimson scale, then crouched low behind the dragon’s sinewy neck. His fingers
clutched other scale. Although Rhonin understood that Korialstrasz would do his best to keep his charge
from slipping off, the human did not want to take a chance. One never knew what even a dragon might
encounter in the sky.

The great, webbed wings flapped once, twice, then suddenly dragon and rider rose high into the
heavens. With each beat, miles fell away. Korialstrasz flew effortlessly along, and Rhonin could feel the
giant’s blood race. Although he spent much of his time in the guise of Krasus, the dragon clearly felt at
home in the air.

 Cold air assailed Rhonin’s head, making the wizard wish he had at least been given the opportunity to
change into his robes and travel cloak. He reached back, trying to draw his coat up—and discovered his
garment now had a hood.

 Glancing down, Rhonin found that he did indeed wear the dark blue travel cloak and robes over his shirt
and pants. Without so much as a word, his companion had transformed his clothing to something more
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




suitable.

The hood drawn over his head, Rhonin contemplated what lay ahead. What could distress the Lord of
Time so much? The threat sounded both immediate and catastrophic…and surely much more than a
mortal wizard could handle.

Yet, Korialstrasz had turned to him…

Rhonin hoped he would prove worthy, not only for the dragon’s sake…but for the lives of the wizard’s
growing family.



 Impossible as it seemed, somewhere along the way Rhonin fell asleep. Despite that, even then he did not
tumble from his seat to certain death. Korialstrasz certainly had something to do with that, although to all
appearances the dragon appeared to be flying blithely along.

The sun had nearly set. Rhonin was about to ask his companion if he intended to fly through the night
when Korialstrasz began to descend. Peering down, the wizard at first sighted only water, surely the
Great Sea. He did not recall red dragons being very aquatic. Did Korialstrasz intend to land like a duck
upon the water?

 A moment later, his question was answered as an ominous rock appeared in the distance. No…not a
rock, but an island almost entirely bare of vegetation.

 A feeling of dread swept over Rhonin, one he had felt before while crossing the sea toward the land of
Khaz Modan. Then it had been with dwarven gryphon riders and the island they had flown over was Tol
Barad, an accursed place overrun early on by the orcs. The island’s inhabitants had been slaughtered,
their home ravaged, and the wizard’s highly attuned senses had felt their spirits crying out for vengeance.

Now he experienced the same kind of horrific, mournful cries again.

Rhonin shouted to the dragon, but either the wind swept away his voice or Korialstrasz chose not to
hear him. The leathery wings adjusted, slowing their descent to a gentle decline.

 They came to a halt atop a promontory overlooking a series of shadowed, ruined structures. Too small
for a city, Rhonin assumed them to have once been a fort or perhaps even a walled estate. In either case,
the buildings cast an ominous image that only reinforced the wizard’s concerns.

 “How soon will we be moving along?” he asked Korialstrasz, still hoping that the dragon only intended
to rest a moment before moving on to Kalimdor.

 “Not until sunrise. We must pass near the Maelstrom to reach Kalimdor, and we will need our full wits
and strength about us for that. This is the only island I have seen for some time.”

“What’s it called?”

“That knowledge is not mine.”

 Korialstrasz settled down, allowing Rhonin to dismount. The wizard stepped just far enough from his
companion to catch one last glimpse of the ruins before darkness enveloped them.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Something tragic happened here,” Korialstrasz suddenly commented.

“You sense it, too?”

 “Yes…but what it was I cannot say. Still, we should be secure up here and I have no intention of
transforming.”

 That comforted Rhonin some, but even still he chose to remain as near to the dragon as possible.
Despite a reputation for recklessness, the wizard was no fool. Nothing would entice him down into those
ruins.

 His gargantuan comrade almost immediately went to sleep, leaving a much more wound-up Rhonin to
stare at the night sky. Vereesa’s image filled his thoughts. The twins were due shortly and he hoped that
he would not miss their coming because of this journey. Birth was a magic unto itself, one that Rhonin
could never master.

Thinking of his family eased the mage’s tensions and before he knew it, he drifted off to slumber. There,
Vereesa and the as-yet-unborn twins continued to keep him loving company even though the children
were never quite defined as male or female.

 Vereesa faded into the background, leaving Rhonin with the twins. They called to him, beseeched him to
come to them. In his dreams, Rhonin began running over a countryside, the children ever more distant
shapes on the horizon. What started as a game became a hunt. The once-happy calls turned fearful.
Rhonin’s children needed him, but first he had to find them…and quickly.

“Papa! Papa!” came their voices.

 “Where are you? Where are you?” The wizard pushed through a tangle of branches that only seemed to
tangle more the harder he pushed. At last he broke through, only to find a towering castle.

And from above, the children called again. He saw their distant shapes reaching out to him. Rhonin cast
a spell to make him rise up in the air, but as he did, the castle grew to match his efforts.

Frustrated, he willed himself up faster.

“Papa! Papa!” called the voices, now somewhat distorted by the wind.

At last he neared the tower window where the two waited. Their arms stretched, trying to cut the
distance between Rhonin and them. His fingers came within a few scant inches of theirs…

 And suddenly a huge form barreled into the castle, shaking it to its very base and sending both Rhonin
and his children tumbling earthward. Rhonin sought desperately to save them, but a monstrous, leathery
hand snatched him up and took him away.

“Wake up! Wake up!”

The wizard’s head pounded. Everything around him began swirling. The hand lost its hold and once
more he plummeted.

“Rhonin! Wherever you are! Awaken!”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Below him, two shadowy forms hurried to catch him…his children now trying to savehis life. Rhonin
smiled at the pair and they smiled back.

Smiled back with sharp, vicious teeth.

And just in time, Rhonindid awaken.

 Instead of falling, he lay on his back. The stars above revealed that surrounding him now was a roofless
ruin of a building. The dank smell of decay assailed his nostrils and a horrific, hissing sound beset his ears.

He lifted his head—and looked into a face out of nightmare.

 If someone had taken a human skull, dipped it in soft, melting wax and let that wax drip free, that would
have come close to describing the gut-wrenching vision at which Rhonin stared. Add to that
needle-shaped teeth filling the mouth, along with red, soulless orbs that glared hungrily at the wizard, and
the picture of hellish horror was made complete.

 It moved toward him on legs much too long and reached out with bony arms that ended in three long,
curved fingers that gouged into the already ravaged stone. Over its macabre form it wore the ripped
remnants of a once-regal coat and pants. It was so thin that at first Rhonin did not think it had any flesh at
all, but then he saw that an almost transparent layer of skin covered the ribs and other visible areas.

The wizard scrambled back just as the monstrosity grabbed at his foot. The slime-encrusted mouth
opened, but instead of a hiss or a shriek, there came a childlike voice.

“Papa!”

The same voice in Rhonin’s dream.

He shivered at such a sound coming from the ghoul, but at the same time the cry sent an urge through
him. Again he felt as if his own children called to him, an impossibility.

An earth-shaking roar suddenly filled the ruined building, eradicating any urge to fling himself into the
deadly talons of the fiend. Rhonin pointed at the creature, muttering.

 A ring of fire burst to life around it. Now the pale monstrosity shrieked. It rose as high as its ungainly
limbs would enable it, trying to climb over the flames.

“Rhonin!” Korialstrasz shouted from without. “Where are you?”

“Here! In here! A place no longer with a roof!”

As the mage replied, the gaunt creature suddenly leapt through the fire.

Flames licking its body in half a dozen places, it opened its maw far wider than should have been
possible, wide enough to engulf Rhonin’s head.

 Before the wizard could cast another spell, a huge shadow blotted out the stars and a great paw caught
the ghoulish beast square. With another shriek, the still-burning horror flew across the chamber, crashing
into a wall with such force the stones caved in around it.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




A breath of dragon fire finished what Rhonin’s own spell had begun.

The stench almost overwhelmed the wizard. Holding one sleeve over his nose and mouth, he watched as
Korialstrasz alighted.

“What—what was that thing?” Rhonin managed to gasp out.

Even in the dark, he could sense the leviathan’s disgust. “I believe…I believe it was once one of those
who called this home.”

Rhonin eyed the charred form.“That was once human? How could that be?”

“You have seen the horrors unleashed by the Undead Scourge during the struggle against the Burning
Legion. You need not ask.”

“Is this their work?”

Korialstrasz exhaled. Clearly he had been as disturbed as Rhonin by this encounter. “No…this is much
older…and even more unholy an act than the Lich King ever perpetrated.”

“Kras—Korialstrasz, it entered my dreams! Manipulated them!”

“Yes, the others sought to do the same with me—”

 “Others?”Rhonin glanced around, another spell already forming on his lips. He felt certain that the ruins
swarmed with the fiends.

 “We are safe…for the time being. Several are now less than what remains of yours and the rest have
scattered into every crevice and gap in these ruins. I believe there are cata-combs below and that they
slumber there when not hunting victims.”

“We can’t stay here.”

“No,” agreed the dragon. “We cannot. We must move on to Kalimdor.”

 He lowered himself so that Rhonin could climb aboard, then immediately flapped his wings. The pair
rose into the dark sky.

“When we have succeeded with our mission, I will return here and end this abomination,” Korialstrasz
declared. In a softer tone, he added, “There are already too many abominations in this world.”

Rhonin did not answer him, instead taking one last glance down. It might have been a trick of his eyes,
but he thought that he saw more of the ghouls emerging now that the dragon had left. In fact, it seemed to
him that they gathered by the dozens, all of them looking up hungrily…at the wizard.

He tore his gaze away, actually happy to be on the journey to Kalimdor. Surely after a night such as this,
whatever awaited the pair could hardly be worse.

Surely…
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 THREE
 Korialstrasz reached the shores of Kalimdor late in the day. He and Rhonin paused only to eat—the
dragon imbibing in fare away from the wizard’s sight—and then set off again for the vast mountain chain
that covered much of the western regions of the land. Korialstrasz flew with more and more urgency as
they neared their goal. He had not told Rhonin that every now and then he attempted to contact
Nozdormu…attempted and failed. Soon, however, that would not matter, for they would know firsthand
what had so distressed the Aspect of Time.

 “That peak!” Rhonin shouted. Although he had slept again, he hardly felt fresh. Nightmares concerning
the sinister island had haunted his dreams. “I recognize that peak!”

 The dragon nodded. It was the final landmark before their destination. Had he not seen it at the same
time as his rider, he would have nonetheless sensed the wrongness in the very fabric of reality…and that
meant something terrible indeed awaited them.

 Despite that certainty, the leviathan only picked up his pace. There was no other choice. Whatever lay
ahead, the only ones who might stop it were him and the tiny human figure he carried.

***

But while the sharp eyes of man and dragon had sighted their destination, they failed to notice eyes that
had sighted them in turn.

“A red dragon…” grumbled the first orc. “A red dragon with a rider…”

“One of us, Brox?” asked the second. “Another orc?”

 Brox snorted at his companion. The other orc was young, too young to have been much use in the war
against the Legion, and he certainly would not have remembered when it had been orcs, not humans,
who had ridden such beasts. Gaskal only knew the stories, the legends. “Gaskal, you fool, the only way a
dragon’d carry an orc these days would be in his belly!”

 Gaskal shrugged, unconcerned. He looked every inch the proud orc warrior—tall and muscular with a
rough, greenish hide and two good-sized tusks thrusting upward from his broad, lower jaw. He had the
squat nose and thick, bushy brow of an orc and a mane of dark hair trailing down between his shoulders.
In one meaty hand Gaskal hefted a huge war ax while with the other he clutched the strap of his goatskin
backpack. Like Brox, he was clad in a thick, fur cloak under which he wore a leather kilt and sandals
wrapped in cloth to preserve heat. A hardy race, orcs could survive any element, but high in the
mountains even they required more warmth.

 Brox, too, was a proud warrior, but time had beaten at him as no other enemy could. He stood several
inches shorter than Gaskal, part of that due to a slight but permanent stoop. The veteran warrior’s mane
had thinned and started going gray. Scars and lines of age had ravaged his wide, bullish visage, and unlike
his youthful companion, the constant expression of eagerness had given way to thoughtful distrust and
weariness.

Hefting his well-worn war hammer, Brox trudged through the deep snow. “They’re heading for the same
place as us.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“How’d you know that?”

“Where else would they be going here?”

Finding no argument, Gaskal quieted, giving Brox the chance to think about the reason that had sent
both of them to this desolate place.

 He had not been there when the old shaman had come to Thrall seeking an immediate audience, but he
had heard the details. Naturally, Thrall had acquiesced, for he very much followed the old ways and
considered Kalthar a sage advisor. If Kalthar needed to see him immediately, it could only be for a very
good reason.

Or a very bad one.

***

 With the aid of two of Thrall’s guards, withered Kalthar entered and took a seat before the towering
Warchief. Out of respect for the elder, Thrall sat on the floor, enabling the eyes of both to meet at the
same level. Across Thrall’s folded legs lay the massive, square-headed Doomhammer, bane of the
Horde’s enemies for generations.

 The new Warchief of the orcs was broad-shouldered, muscular, and, for his position, relatively young.
No one doubted Thrall’s ability to rule, however. He had taken the orcs from the internment camps and
given them back their honor and pride. He had made the pact with the humans which brought about the
chance for the Horde to begin life anew. The people already sang songs of him that would be passed
down generation after generation.

Clad in thick, ebony plate armor etched in bronze—handed down to him along with the huge weapon by
his predecessor, the legendary Orgrim Doomhammer—the greatest of warriors bent his head low and
humbly asked, “How may I assist you who honor my presence, great one?”

“Only by listening,” Kalthar returned. “And bytruly listening.”

 The strong-jawed Warchief leaned forward, his startling and so very rare blue eyes—considered a
portent of destiny by his people——narrowed in anticipation. In his journey from slave and gladiator to
ruler, Thrall had studied the path of the shaman, even mastering some of the skills. He more than most
understood that when Kalthar talked so, he did with good reason.

And so the shaman told Thrall of the vision of the funnel and how time seemed a plaything to it. He told
him of the voices and their warnings, told him about the wrongness he had felt.

Told Thrall what he feared would happen if the situation was left unchecked.

 When Kalthar finished, the Warchief leaned back. Around his throat he wore a single medallion upon
which had been inscribed in gold an ax and hammer. His eyes revealed the quick wit and intelligence that
marked him as a capable leader. When he moved, he moved not as a brutish orc might, but with a grace
and poise more akin to a human or an elf.

“This smells of magic,” he rumbled. “Big magic. Something for wizards…maybe.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“They may know already,” returned Kalthar. “But we cannot afford to wait for them, great Warchief.”

Thrall understood. “You would have me send someone to this place you saw?”

“It would seem most prudent. At least so we may know what we face.”

The Warchief rubbed his chin. “I think I know who. A good warrior.” He looked to the guards. “Brox!
Get me Brox!”



And so Brox had been summoned and told his mission. Thrall respected Brox highly, for the older
warrior had been a hero of the last war, the only survivor of a band of brave fighters holding a critical
pass against the demons. With his war hammer Brox himself had caved in the skulls of more than a dozen
of the fiery foes. His last comrade had died cleaved in two just as reinforcements had arrived to save the
day. Scarred, covered in blood, and standing alone amid the carnage, Brox had appeared to the
newcomers as a vision out of the old tales of his race. His name became almost as honored as that of
Thrall.

 But it was more than the veteran’s name that garnered the respect of the Warchief and made him
Thrall’s choice. Thrall knew that Brox was like him, a warrior who fought with his head as well as his
arm. The orc leader could not send an army into the mountains. He needed to trust the search to one or
two skilled fighters who could then report their findings to him.

Gaskal was chosen to accompany Brox because of his swiftness and absolute obedience to orders. The
younger orc was part of the new generation that would grow up in relative peace with the other races.
Brox was glad to have the able fighter at his side.

 The shaman had so perfectly described the route through the mountains that the pair were well ahead of
the estimated time the trek should have taken. By Brox’s reckoning, their goal lay just beyond the next
ridge…exactly where the dragon and rider had vanished.

Brox’s grip on his hammer tightened. The orcs had agreed to peace, but he and Gaskal would fight if
need be, even if it meant their certain deaths.

The older warrior forced away the grim smile that nearly played across his face at the last thought. Yes,
he would be willing to fight to the death. What Thrall had not known when he summoned the war hero to
him had been that Brox suffered from terrible guilt, guilt that had eaten at his soul since that day in the
pass.

They had all perished, all but Brox, and he could not understand that. He felt guilty for being alive, for
not dying valiantly with his comrades. To him, his still being alive was a matter of shame, of failure to give
his all as they had done. Since that time, he had waited and hoped for some opportunity to redeem
himself. Redeem himself…and die.

Now, perhaps, the fates had granted him that.

 “Get a move on!” he ordered Gaskal. “We can reach ’em before they get settled in!” Now he allowed
himself a wide grin, one that his companion would read as typical orc enthusiasm. “And if they give us
any trouble…we’ll make ’em think the entire Horde is on the rampage again!”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 If the island upon which they had landed seemed a dire place, the mountain pass in which they now
descended simply feltwrong. That was the best word Rhonin could use to describe the sensations flowing
through him. Whatever they sought…it should not be. It was as if the very fabric of reality had made
some terrible error…

The intensity of the feeling was such that the wizard, who had faced every conceivable nightmare,
wanted the dragon to turn back. He said nothing, though, recalling how he had already revealed his
uncertainties on the island. Korialstrasz might already regret summoning him.

 The crimson behemoth arched his wings as he dropped the final distance. His massive paws sank into
the snow as he sought a stable landing area.

Rhonin clutched the dragon’s neck tightly. He felt every vibration and hoped his grip would last. His
pack bounced against his back, pummeling him.

At last, Korialstrasz came to a halt. The reptilian visage turned the wizard’s way. “Are you well?”

 “As well—as well as I could be!” gasped Rhonin. He had made dragon flights before, but not for so
long.

 Either Korialstrasz knew his passenger was still weary or the dragon himself also needed rest after such
a monumental trek. “We shall remain here for a few hours. Gather our strength. I sense no change in the
emanations I feel. We should have the time to recoup. It would be the wisest choice.”

“I won’t be arguing with you,” Rhonin answered, sliding off.

 The wind blew harshly through the mountains and the high peaks left much shadow, but with the aid of
some magic and an overhang, the wizard managed to keep warm enough. While he tried to stretch the
kinks out of his body, Korialstrasz strode along the pass, scouting the area. The behemoth vanished
some distance ahead as the path curved.

Hood draping his head, Rhonin dozed. This time, his thoughts filled with good images…true images of
Vereesa and the upcoming birth. The wizard smiled, thinking of his return.

 He woke at the sound of approach. To Rhonin’s surprise, it was not the dragon Korialstrasz who
returned to him, but rather the cowled, robed figure of Krasus.

 In response to the human’s widening eyes, the dragon mage explained, “There are several unstable areas
nearby. This form is less likely to cause them to collapse. I can always transform again should the need
arise.”

“Did you find anything?”

The not-quite-elven face pursed. “I sense the Aspect of Time. He is here and yet he is not. I am
disturbed by that.”

“Should we start—”

But before Rhonin could finish, a horrific yowl echoed harshly through the mountain chain. The sound set
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




every nerve of the wizard on edge. Even Krasus looked perturbed.

“What was that?” asked Rhonin.

“I do not know.” The dragon mage drew himself up. “We should move on. Our goal lies not far away.”

“We’re not flying?”

“I sense that what we seek lies within a narrow passage between the next mountains. A dragon would
not fit, but two small travelers would.”

 With Krasus leading, the pair headed northeast. Rhonin’s companion appeared unbothered by the cold,
though the human had to enhance the protective spell on his clothes. Even then, he felt the chill of the land
upon his face and fingers.

 Before long, they came upon the beginning of the passage Krasus had mentioned. Rhonin saw now what
the other meant. The passage was little more than a cramped corridor. Half a dozen men could walk
side-by-side through it without feeling constricted, but a dragon attempting to enter would have barely
been able to get its head in, much less its gargantuan body. The high, steep sides also created even
thicker shadows, making Rhonin wonder if the two might need to create some sort of illumination along
the way.

Krasus pressed on without hesitation, certain of their path. He moved faster and faster, almost as if
possessed.

The wind howled even harder through the natural corridor, its intensity building as they journeyed. Only
human, Rhonin had to struggle to keep pace with his former patron.

“Are we almost there?” he finally called.

“Soon. It lies only—” Krasus paused.

“What is it?”

The dragon mage focused inwardly, frowning. “It is not—it is not exactly where it should be anymore.”

“Itmoved?”

“That would be my assumption.”

“Is it supposed to do that?” the fiery-haired wizard asked, squinting down the dark path ahead.

 “You are under the misconception that I know perfectly what to expect, Rhonin. I understand little more
than you.”

That did not at all please the human. “So what do you suggest we do?”

 The eyes of the inhuman mage literally flared as he contemplated the question. “We go on. That is all we
can do.”

But only a short distance ahead, they came across a new obstacle of sorts, one that Krasus had been
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




unable to foresee from high up in the air. The passage split off in two directions and while it was possible
that they merged further on, the pair could not assume that.

 Krasus eyed both paths. “They each run near to our goal, but I cannot sense which lies closer. We need
to investigate both.”

“Do we separate?”

“I would prefer not to, but we must. We will each journey five hundred paces in, then turn back and
meet here. Hopefully we will then have a better sense of which to take.”

 Taking the corridor to the left, Rhonin followed Krasus’s instructions. As he rapidly counted off paces,
he soon determined that his choice had potential. Not only did it greatly widen ahead, but the wizard
thought he sensed the disturbance better than ever. While Krasus’s abilities were more acute than his,
even a novice could sense the wrongness that now pervaded the region beyond.

 But despite his confidence in his choice, Rhonin did not yet turn around. Curiosity drove him on. Surely a
few steps more would hardly matter—

He had barely taken more than one, however, when he sensed something new, something quite
disturbing. Rhonin paused, trying to detect what felt different about the anomaly.

It was moving, but there was more to his anxiety than that alone.

It was moving towardhim …and rapidly.

 He felt it before he saw it, felt as if all time compressed, then stretched, then compressed again. Rhonin
felt old, young, and every moment of life in between. Overwhelmed, the wizard hesitated.

And the darkness before him gave way to a myriad flaring of colors, some of which he had never seen
before. A continual explosion of elemental energy filled both empty air and solid rock, rising to fantastic
heights. Rhonin’s limited mind saw it best as a looming, fiery flower that bloomed, burnt away, and
bloomed again…and with each blooming grew more and more imposing.

As it neared, he finally came to his senses. Whirling, the mage ran.

Sounds assailed his ears. Voices, music, thunder, birds, water…everything.

 Despite his fears that it would overtake him, the phenomenal display fell behind. Rhonin did not stop
running, fearing that at any moment it would surge forward and envelop him.

Krasus surely had to have sensed the latest shift. He had to be hurrying to meet Rhonin. Together, they
would devise some way in which to—

A terrible howl echoed through the pass.

A massive, eight-legged lupine form dropped down on him.

 Had he been other than what he was, the wizard would have perished there, the meal of a savage,
saber-toothed creature with four gleaming green eyes to go with its eight clawed limbs. The monstrous
wolf-creature brought him down, but Rhonin, having magicked his garments to better protect him from
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




the elements, proved a hard nut to crack. The claws scraped at a cloak it should have readily tattered,
only to have instead one nail snap off.

 Gray fur standing on end, the beast howled its frustration. Rhonin took the opening, casting a simple but
effective spell that had saved him in the past.

A cacophony of light burst before the creature’s emerald orbs, both blinding and startling it. It ducked
back, swatting uselessly at flashing patterns.

Dragging himself out of reach, Rhonin rose. There was no chance of flight; that would only serve to turn
his back on the beast and his protective spell was already weakening. A few more slashes and the claws
would be ripping the wizard to the bone.

 Fire had worked against the ghoul on the island and Rhonin saw no reason why such a tried and true
spell would not benefit him again. He muttered the words—

 …Which, inexplicably, came out in reverse. Worse, Rhonin found himself moving backward, returning
to the wild claws of the blinded beast.

Timehad turned in on itself…but how?

The answer materialized from further in the passage. Krasus’s anomaly had caught up.

Ghostly images fluttered by Rhonin. Knights riding into battle. A wedding scene. A storm over the sea.
Orcs uttering war chants around a fire. Strange creatures locked in combat…

 Suddenly he could move forward again. Rhonin darted out of the beast’s reach, then turned to face it
again. This time, he did not hesitate, casting his spell.

 The flames burst forth in the form of a great hand, but as they neared the monstrous creature, they
slowed…then stopped, frozen in time.

Swearing, Rhonin started another spell.

The eight-legged horror leapt around the frozen fire, howling as it charged the human.

Rhonin cast.

The earth beneath the abomination exploded, a storm of dirt rising up and covering the lupine creature. It
howled again and, despite the intense forces against it, struggled toward the mage.

A crust formed over the legs and torso. The mouth shut tight as a layer of rock-solid earth sealed it. One
by one, the inhuman orbs were covered by a film of dust.

 Just a few feet from its victim, the creature stilled. To all appearances, it now seemed but a perfectly cast
statue, not the actual monster itself.

At that moment, Krasus’s voice filled Rhonin’s head.

At last!the dragon mage called.Rhonin…the disturbance is expanding! It’s almost upon you!
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Distracted by the fearsome beast, the wizard had not glanced at the anomaly. When he did, his eyes
widened.

 It filled a space ten times higher and, no doubt, ten times wider than the pass. Solid rock meant nothing
to it. The anomaly simply passed through it as if it did not exist. Yet, in its wake, the landscape changed.
Some of the rock looked more weathered, while other portions appeared as if newly cooled from the
titanic throes of birth. The worst transformations seemed to take place wherever the edges of the fiery
flower touched.

Rhonin did not want to think what would happen to him if the thing touched him.

He started running again.

Its movement and growth have suddenly expanded much faster for reasons I do not understand,Krasus
went on.I fear I will not reach you in time! You must cast a spell of teleportation!

My spellwork doesn’t always work the way it should!he responded.The anomaly’s affecting it!

 We will stay linked! That should help strengthen your casting! I will guide you to me and we can
regroup!

Rhonin did not care to teleport himself to places he had never seen, the inherent risk being that of ending
up encased in a mountain, but with Krasus linked to him, the task would be a much simpler one.

He focused on Krasus, picturing the dragon mage. The spell began to form. Rhonin felt the world around
him shift.

The fiery blossom suddenly expanded to nearly twice its previous dimensions.

 Only too late did Rhonin realize why. It was reacting to the use of magic…his magic. He wanted to stop
the spell, but it was already too late.

Krasus! Break the link! Break it before you’re also—

The anomaly swallowed him.

Rhonin?

 But Rhonin could not answer. He flailed around and around, tossed about like a leaf in a tornado. With
each revolution he flew faster and faster. The sounds and sights again assailed him. He saw past, present,
and future and understood each for what it was. He caught a glimpse of the petrified beast as it flew
wildly past him into what could only be described as a whirlpool in time.

 Other things flew by, random objects and even creatures. An entire ship, its sails tattered, its hull crushed
in near the bow, soared by, vanishing. A tree on which still perched a flock of birds followed. In the
distance, a kraken, fifty feet in length from tip of head to end of tentacle, reached out but failed to drag
Rhonin along before vanishing with the rest.

From somewhere came Krasus’s faint voice.Rhonin…

He answered, but there was no reply.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




The whirlpool filled his gaze.

And as it sucked him in, Rhonin’s last thoughts were of Vereesa and the children he would never know.


 FOUR
 He sensed the slow but steady growth of the leaves, the branches, and the roots. He sensed the timeless
wisdom, the eternal thoughts within. Each giant had its own unique signature, as was true with any
individual.

 They are the guardians of the forest,came his mentor’s voice.They are as much its soul as I. They arethe
forest. A pause.Now…come back to us…

Malfurion Stormrage’s mind respectfully withdrew from the gargantuan trees, the eldest of the heavily
wooded land. As he retreated, his own physical surroundings gradually reappeared, albeit murky at first.
He blinked his silver, pupilless eyes twice, bringing everything back into focus. His breath came in ragged
gasps, but his heart swelled with pride. Never before had he reached so far!

 “You have learned well, young night elf,” a voice like a bear’s rumbled. “Better than even I could have
expected…”

 Sweat poured down Malfurion’s violet countenance. His patron had insisted that he attempt this next
monumental step at the height of day, his people’s weakest point of time. Had it been at night, Malfurion
felt certain that he would have been stronger, but as Cenarius pointed out again and again, that would
have defeated the purpose. What his mentor taught him was not the sorcery of the night elves, but almost
its exact opposite.

 And in so many ways, Malfurion had already become the opposite of his people. Despite their
tendencies toward flamboyant garments, for instance, Malfurion’s own were very subdued. A cloth tunic,
a simple leather jerkin and pants, knee-high boots…his parents, had they not perished by accident years
before, would have surely died of shame.

 His shoulder-length, dark green hair surrounded a narrow visage akin to a wolf’s. Malfurion had become
something of an outcast among his kind. He asked questions, suggested that old traditions were not
necessarily the best, and even dared once mention that beloved Queen Azshara might not always have
the concerns of her subjects foremost on her thoughts. Such actions left him with few associates and even
fewer friends.

In fact, in Malfurion’s mind, he could truly only count three as friends. First and foremost had to be his
own twin, the equally troublesome Illidan. While Illidan did not shy away from the traditions and sorcery
of the night elves as much as he, he had a tendency to question the governing authority of the elders, also
a great crime.

 “What did you see?” his brother, seated beside him on the grass, asked eagerly. Illidan would have been
identical to Malfurion if not for his midnight blue hair and amber eyes. Children of the moon, nearly all
night elves had eyes of silver. Those very few born with ones of amber were seen as destined for
greatness.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 But if greatness was to be Illidan’s, he first had to curb both his temper and his impatience. He had come
with his twin to study this new path that used the power of nature—their mentor termed it
“druidism”—believing he would be the quicker student. Instead, he often miscast spells and failed to
concentrate enough to maintain most trances. That he was fairly adept at traditional sorcery did not
assuage Illidan. He had wanted to learn the ways of druidism because such unique skills would mark him
as different, as nearing that potential everyone had spoken about since his birth.

 “I saw…” How to explain it even to his brother? Malfurion’s brow wrinkled. “I saw into the hearts of
the trees, the souls. Not simply theirs, either. I saw…I think I saw into the souls of the entire forest!”

“How wonderful!” gasped a female voice at his other side.

Malfurion fought to keep his cheeks from darkening to black, the night elf equivalent of embarrassment.
Of late, he had been finding himself more and more uncomfortable around his other companion…and yet
he could not think of himself far from her, either.

 With the brothers had come Tyrande Whisperwind, their greatest friend since childhood. They had
grown up together, the three, inseparable in every way until the last year, when she had taken the robes
of a novice priestess in the temple of Elune, the moon goddess. There she learned to become attuned to
the spirit of the goddess, learned to use the gifts all priestesses were granted in order to let them spread
the word of their mistress. She it had been who had encouraged Malfurion when he had chosen to turn
from the sorcery of the night elves to another, earthier power. Tyrande saw druidism as a kindred force
to the abilities her deity would grant her once she completed her own training.

 But from a thin pale child who had more than once bested both brothers in races and hunting, Tyrande
had become, since joining the temple, a slim yet well-curved beauty, her smooth skin now a soft, light
violet and her dusky blue hair streaked with silver. The mousy face had grown fuller, much more feminine
and appealing.

Perhaps too appealing.

“Hmmph!” added Illidan, not so impressed. “Was thatall?”

 “It is a good start,” rumbled their tutor. The great shadow fell over all three young night elves, stifling
even Illidan’s rampant mouth.

Although over seven feet tall themselves, the trio were dwarfed by Cenarius, who stood well above ten.
His upper torso was akin to that of Malfurion’s race, although a hint of the emerald forest colored his
dark skin and he had a much broader, more muscular build than either of his male students. Beyond the
upper body any similarity ended. Cenarius was no simple night elf, after all. He was not even mortal.

Cenarius was a demigod.

 His origins were known only to him, but he was as much a part of the great forest as it was of him.
When the first night elves had appeared, Cenarius had already long existed. He claimed kinship with
them, but never had he said in what way.

Those few who came to him for guidance left ever touched, ever changed. Others did not even leave,
becoming so transformed by their teachings that they chose instead to join the demigod in the protection
of his realm. Those were no longer elves, but woodland guardians physically altered forever.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 A thick, moss-green mane flowing from his head, Cenarius eyed his pupils fondly with orbs of pure gold.
He patted Malfurion gently on the shoulder with hands that ended in talons of gnarled, aged
wood—talons still capable of ripping the night elf to shreds without effort—then backed away…on four
strong legs.

 The upper torso of the demigod might have resembled that of a night elf, but the lower portion was that
of a huge, magnificent stag. Cenarius moved about effortlessly, as swift and nimble as any of the three.
He had the speed of the wind, the strength of the trees. In him was reflected the life and health of the
land. He was its child and father all in one.

 And like a stag, he also had antlers—giant, glorious antlers that shaded his stern yet fatherly visage.
Matched in prominence only by his lengthy, rich beard, the antlers were the final reminder that any blood
link between demigod and night elf existed far, far in the past.

 “You have all done well,” he added in the voice that ever sounded of thunder. Leaves and twigs literally
growing in his beard, his hair shook whenever the deity spoke. “Go now. Be among your own again for a
time. It will do you some good.”

All three rose, but Malfurion hesitated. Looking at his companions, he said, “You go on ahead. I’ll meet
you at the trail’s end. I need to talk with Cenarius.”

“We could wait,” Tyrande replied.

“There’s no need. I won’t be long.”

“Then, by all means,” Illidan quickly interjected, taking Tyrande’s arm. “We should let him be. Come,
Tyrande.”

 She gave Malfurion one last lingering glance that made him turn away to conceal his emotions. He waited
for the two to depart, then turned again to the demigod.

The descending sun created shadows in the forest that seemed to dance for the pleasure of Cenarius.
The demigod smiled at the dancing shadows, the trees and other plants moving in time with them.

 Malfurion went down on one knee, his gaze to the earth. “My shan’do,” he began, calling Cenarius by
the title that meant in the old tongue “honored teacher.” “Forgive me for asking—”

“You should not act so before me, young one. Arise…”

The night elf reluctantly obeyed, but he kept his gaze down.

This made the demigod chuckle, a sound accented by the sudden lively chirping of songbirds. Whenever
Cenarius reacted, the world reacted in concert with him.

“You pay me even more homage than those who claim to preach in my name. Your brother does not
bend to me and for all her respect of my power, Tyrande Whisperwind gives herself only to Elune.”

“You offered to teach me—us—” Malfurion responded,

“what no night elf has ever learned…” He still recalled the day when he had approached the sacred
wood. Legends abounded about Cenarius, but Malfurion had wanted to know the truth. However, when
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




he had called out to the demigod, he had not actually expected an answer.

He had also not expected Cenarius to offer to be his teacher. Why the demigod would take on so—
mundane—a task was beyond Malfurion. Yet, here they were together. They were more than deity and
night elf, more than teacher and student…they were also friends.

“No other night elf truly wishes to learn my ways,” Cenarius replied. “Even those who has taken up the
mantle of the forest…none of them has truly followed the path I now show you. You are the first with the
possible aptitude, the possible will, to trulyunderstand how to wield the forces inherent in all nature. And
when I say ‘you,’ young elf, I speak entirely in the singular.”

This was not what Malfurion had remained to talk about and so the words struck him hard. “But—but
Tyrande and Illidan—”

 The demigod shook his head. “Of Tyrande, we have already spoken. She has promised herself to Elune
and I will not poach in the Moon Goddess’s realm! Of your brother, however, I can only say that there is
much promise to Illidan…but I believe that promise lies elsewhere.”

 “I—I don’t know what to say…” And in truth, Malfurion did not. To be told so suddenly that Illidan and
he would not follow the same path, that Illidan even appeared to waste his efforts here…it was the first
time that the twins would not share in their success. “No! Illidan will learn! He’s just more headstrong!
There’s so much pressure upon him! His eyes—”

 “Are a sign of some future mark upon the world, but he will not make it following my teachings.”
Cenarius gave Malfurion a gentle smile. “But you will try to teach him yourself, will you not? Perhaps you
can succeed where I have failed?”

 The night elf flushed. Of course his shan’do would read his thoughts on that subject. Yes, Malfurion
intended to do what he could to push Illidan further along…but he knew that doing so would be a harder
task. Learning from the demigod was one thing; learning from Malfurion would be another. It would
show that Illidan was not first, but second.

 “Now,” added the forest lord quietly, as a small red bird alighted on his antlers and its paler mate did so
on his arm. Such sights were common around Cenarius, but they ever left the elf marveling. “You came to
ask of me something…”

“Yes. Great Cenarius…I’ve been troubled by a dream, a reoccurring one.”

The golden eyes narrowed. “Only a dream? That is what troubles you?”

 Malfurion grimaced. He had already berated himself several times for even thinking of distracting the
demigod with his problem. Of what harm was a dream, even one that repeated itself? Everyone
dreamed. “Yes…it comes to me every time I sleep and since I’ve been learning from you…it’s grown
stronger, more demanding.”

He expected Cenarius to laugh at him, but instead the forest lord studied him closely. Malfurion felt the
golden orbs—so much more arresting than even his brother’s own—burrow deep within him, reading the
night elf inside and out.

 At last, Cenarius leaned back. He nodded once to himself and in a more solemn voice said, “Yes, you
are ready, I think.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Ready for what?”

 In response, Cenarius held up one hand. The red bird leapt down to the offered hand, its mate joining it
there. The demigod stroked the backs of both once, whispered something to them, then let the pair fly
off.

 Cenarius looked down at the night elf. “Illidan and Tyrande will be informed that you are staying behind
for a time. They have been told to leave without you.”

“But why?”

The golden eyes flared. “Tell me of your dream.”

 Taking a deep breath, Malfurion began. The dream started as always, with the Well of Eternity as its
focal point. At first the waters were calm, but then, from the center, a maelstrom rapidly formed…and
from the depths of the maelstrom, creatures burst forth, some of them harmless, others malevolent. Many
he did not even recognize, as if they came from other worlds, other times. They spread in every direction,
fleeing beyond his sight.

 Suddenly, the whirlpool vanished and Malfurion stood in the midst of Kalimdor…but a Kalimdor
stripped of all life. A horrible evil had laid waste to the entire land, leaving not so much as a blade of
grass or a tiny insect alive. The once-proud cities, the vast, lush woodlands…nothing had been spared.

 Even more terrible, for as far as the eye could see, the scorched, cracked bones of night elves lay strewn
everywhere. The skulls had been caved in. The stench of death was strong in the air. No one, not even
the old, infirm, or young, had been spared.

 Heat, horrific heat, had assailed Malfurion then. Turning, he had seen in the distance a vast fire, an
inferno reaching into the heavens. It burned everything it touched, even the very wind. Where it moved,
nothing…absolutely nothing…remained. Yet, as frightening as the scene had been, it was not that which
had finally awakened the night elf in a cold sweat, but rather something he had sensedabout the fire.

It had beenalive. It knew the terrors it wrought, knew andreveled in them. Reveled…and hungered for
more.

 All humor had fled Cenarius’s visage by the time Malfurion finished. His gaze flickered to his beloved
forest and the creatures thriving within. “And this nightmare repeats itself with every slumber?”

“Every one. Without fail.”

 “I fear, then, that this is an omen. I sensed in you from our first encounter the makings of the gift of
prescience—one of the reasons I chose to make myself known to you—but it is stronger than even I
ever expected.”

 “But what does it mean?” the young night elf pleaded. “If you say this is an omen, I’ve got to know what
it portends.”

“And we shall try to discover that. I said, after all, that you are ready.”

“Ready for what?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Cenarius folded his arms. His tone grew more grave.

“Ready to walk theEmerald Dream.”

Nothing in the demigod’s teachings so far had referred to this Emerald Dream, but the manner in which
Cenarius spoke of it made Malfurion realize the importance of this next step. “What is it?”

 “What is it not? The Emerald Dream is the world beyond the waking world. It is the world of the spirit,
the world of the sleepers. It is the world as it might have been, if we sentient creatures had not come
about to ruin it. In the Emerald Dream, it is possible, with practice, to see anything, go anywhere. Your
body will enter a trance and your dream form will fly from it to wherever you need to go.”

“It sounds—”

“Dangerous? It is, young Malfurion. Even the well-trained, the experienced, can lose themselves in the
Emerald Dream. You note I call it theEmerald Dream. That is the color of its mistress, Ysera, the Great
Aspect. It is the realm of her and her dragon flight. She guards it well and allows only a few to enter it.
My own dryads and keepers make use of the Emerald Dream in their duties, but sparingly.”

“I’ve never heard of it,” Malfurion admitted with a shake of his head.

“Likely because no night elf save those in my service has ever walked it…and they only when they were
no longer of your race. You would be the first of your kind to truly take the path…if you so desire.”

The idea both unnerved and excited Malfurion. It would be the next step in his studies and a way,
perhaps, to make sense of his constant nightmare. Yet…Cenarius had made it clear that the Emerald
Dream could also be deadly.

“What—what might happen? What might go wrong?”

 “Even the experienced can lose their way back if they become distracted,” the demigod replied. “Even I.
You must remain focused at all times, know your goal. Otherwise…otherwise your body might sleep
forever.”

There was more, the night elf suspected, but Cenarius for some reason wanted him to learn on his
own—if Malfurion chose to walk the Emerald Dream.

He decided he had no other recourse. “How do I start?”

Cenarius fondly touched the top of his student’s head. “You are certain?”

“Very.”

 “Then simply sit as you have for your other lessons.” When the slighter figure had obeyed, Cenarius
lowered his own four-legged form to the earth. “I will guide you in this first time, then it is up to you.
Lock your gaze in mine, night elf.”

 The demigod’s golden orbs snared Malfurion’s eyes. Even had he wanted to, it would have taken
mammoth effort for him to pull his own gaze away. He felt himself drawn into Cenarius’s mind, drawn
into a world where all was possible.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




A sense of lightness touched Malfurion.

Do you feel the songs of the stones, the dance of the wind, the laughter of the rushing water?

At first, Malfurion felt no such thing, but then he heard the slow, steady grinding, the shifting of earth.
Belatedly, he realized that this was how the stones and rock spoke as, over the eons, they made their
way from one point in the world to another.

 After that, the others became more evident. Every part of nature had its own unique voice. The wind
spun around in merry steps when pleased, or in violent bursts when the mood grew darker. The trees
shook their crowns and the raging water of a nearby river chuckled as the fish within it darted up to
spawn.

But in the background…Malfurion thought he sensed distant discord. He tried to focus on it, but failed.

 You are not yet in the Emerald Dream. First, you must remove your earthly shell…the voice in his head
instructed.As you reach the state of sleep, you will slip your body off as you would a coat. Start from
your heart and mind, for they are the links that most bind you to the mortal plane. See? This is how it is
done…

 Malfurion touched at his heart with his thoughts, opening it like a door and willing his spirit free. He did
the same with his mind, although the earthly, practical side of any living creature protested at this action.

 Give way to your subconscious. Let it guide you. It knows of the realm of dreaming and is always happy
to return there.

 As Malfurion obeyed, the last barriers slipped away. He felt as if he had sloughed off his skin the way a
snake might. A sense of exhilaration filled him and he almost forgot for what purpose he was doing this.

But Cenarius had warned him to remain focused and so the night elf fought the euphoria down.

Now…rise up.

 Malfurion pushed himself up…but his body, legs still folded, remained where it was. His dream form
floated a few feet off the ground, free of all restraints. Had he so desired, Malfurion knew that he could
have flown to the stars themselves.

 But the Emerald Dream lay in a different direction.Turn again to your subconscious, the demigod
instructed.It will show you the path, for that lies within, not without.

 And as he followed Cenarius’s instructions, the night elf saw the world change further around him. A
hazy quality enveloped everything. Images, endless images, overlapped one another, but with
concentration Malfurion discovered that he could see each separately. He heard whispers and realized
that they were the inner voices of dreamers throughout the world.

From here, you must take the path by yourself.

 He felt his link to Cenarius all but fade. For the sake of Malfurion’s concentration, the demigod had been
forced to pull back. However, Cenarius remained a presence, ready to aid his student if the need arose.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




As Malfurion moved forward, his world turned a brilliant, gemlike green. The haze increased and the
whispers became more audible. A landscape vaguely seen beckoned to him.

He had become part of the Emerald Dream.

 Following his instincts, Malfurion floated toward the shifting dreamscape. As Cenarius said, it looked as
the world would have looked had night elves and other creatures not come into being. There was a
tranquillity to the Emerald Dream that made it tempting just to stay forever, but Malfurion refused to give
in to that temptation. He had to know the truth about his dreams.

He had no idea at first where his subconscious was taking him, but somehow suspected it would lead
him to the answers he desired. Malfurion flew over the empty paradise, marveling at all he saw.

 But then, in the midst of his miraculous journey, he felt something amiss again. The faint discord he had
sensed earlier increased. Malfurion tried to ignore it, but it gnawed at him like a starving rat. He finally
veered his spirit form toward it.

 Suddenly, ahead of him lay a huge, black lake. Malfurion frowned, certain that he recognized the
foreboding body of water. Dark waves lapped its shores and an aura of power radiated from its center.

The Well of Eternity.

 But if this was the Well, where was the city? Malfurion eyed the dreamscape where he knew the capital
should have been, trying to summon an image of it. He had come here for a reason and now he believed
that it had to do with the city. By itself, the Well of Eternity was an astonishing thing, but it was the source
of power only. The discord the night elf felt originated from somewhere else.

He stared at the empty world, demanding to see the reality.

 And without warning, Malfurion’s dream self materialized over Zin-Azshari, the capital of the night elves.
In the old tongue, Zin-Azshari translated into “The Glory of Azshara.” So beloved had the queen been
when she had made her ascension to the throne that the people had insisted on renaming the capital in her
honor.

 Thinking of his queen, Malfurion suddenly beheld the palace itself, a magnificent structure surrounded by
a huge, well-guarded wall. He frowned, knowing it well. This was, of course, the grand abode of his
queen. Even though he had at times made mention of what he believed to be her faults, Malfurion actually
admired her more than most thought. Overall, she had done much good for her people, but on occasion
he believed Azshara simply lost her focus. As with many other night elves, he suspected any problem
there had to do in part with the Highborne, who administered the realm in her name.

 The wrongness grew worse the nearer he floated down toward the palace. Malfurion’s eyes widened as
he saw the reason. With the summoning of the vision of Zin-Azshari, he had also summoned a more
immediate image of the Well. The black lake now swirled madly and what appeared to be monstrous
strands of multicolored energy shot up from its depths. Powerful magic was being drawn from the Well
into the highest tower, its only possible purpose the casting of a spell of impossible proportions.

 The dark waters beyond the palace moved with such violence that to Malfurion they seemed to be
boiling. The more those within the tower summoned the might of the Well, the more terrible the fury of
the elements. Above, the storm-wracked heavens screamed and flashed. Some of the buildings near the
edge of the Well threatened to be washed away.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




What are they doing?Malfurion wondered, his own quest forgotten.Why do they continue even during
weakness of day?

 But “day” was only a term, now. Gone was the sun that dampened the night elves’ abilities. Even though
evening had not yet come, it was as black as night above Zin-Azshari…no, even blacker. This was not
natural and certainly not safe. What could those within be toying with?

 He drifted over the walls, past stone-faced guards ignorant of his presence. Malfurion floated to the
palace itself, but when he sought to enter, certain that his dream form would pass through something so
simple as stone, the night elf discovered an impenetrable barrier.

 Someone had encased the palace in protective spells so intricate, so powerful, that he could not pierce
them. This only made Malfurion more curious, more determined. He swooped around the structure, rising
again toward the tower in question. There had to be a way in. He had to see what madness was going on
inside.

 With one hand, he reached out to the array of protective spells, seeking the point that bound them all
together, the point by which they could also be unbound—

 And suddenly pain unimaginable wracked Malfurion. He screamed silently, no sound able to voice his
agony. The image of the palace, of Zin-Azshari, vanished. He found himself in an emerald void, caught
within a storm of pure magic. The elemental powers threatened to rip his dream form into a thousand
pieces and scatter them in every direction.

But in the midst of the monstrous chaos, he suddenly heard the faint calling of a familiar voice.

Malfurion…my child…come back to me…Malfurion…you must return…

 Vaguely the night elf recognized Cenarius’s desperate summons. He clung to it as a drowning person in
the middle of the sea might cling to a tiny piece of driftwood. Malfurion felt the woodland deity’s mind
reach out to him, guide him in the proper direction.

The pain began to lessen, but Malfurion was exhausted beyond measure. A part of him simply wanted to
drift among the dreamers, his soul never returning to his flesh. Yet, he realized that to do so would mean
his end and so he fought against the deadly desire.

And as the pain dwindled away, as Cenarius’s touch grew stronger, Malfurion sensed his own link to his
mortal form. Eagerly he followed it, moving faster and faster through the Emerald Dream…

With a gasp…the young night elf awoke.

Unable to stop himself, Malfurion tumbled into the grass. Mighty yet still gentle hands picked him back
up to a sitting position. Water dribbled into his mouth.

 He opened his eyes and beheld Cenarius’s concerned visage. His mentor held Malfurion’s own water
sack.

“You have done what few others could do,” the stag god murmured. “And in doing so, you almost lost
yourself forever. What happened to you, Malfurion? You went even beyond my sight…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“I…I sensed…something terrible…”

“The cause of your nightmares?”

 The night elf shook his head. “No…I don’t know…I…I found myself drawn to Zin-Azshari…” He tried
to explain what he had witnessed, but the words seem so insufficient.

Cenarius looked even more disturbed than he, which worried Malfurion. “This does not bode well…no.
You are certain it was the palace? It had to be Azshara and her Highborne?”

 “I don’t know if one or both…but I can’t help feeling that the queen must be a part of it. Azshara is too
strong-willed. Even Xavius can’t control her…I think.” The queen’s counselor was an enigmatic figure,
as distrusted as Azshara was loved.

 “You must think about what you say, young Malfurion. You are suggesting that the ruler of the night
elves, she whose name is heard in song each day, is involved in some spellwork that could be a threat not
only to your kind, but the rest of the world. Do you understand what that means?”

 The image of Zin-Azshari intermingled with the scene of devastation…and Malfurion found both
compatible with each other. They might not be directly linked, but they shared something in common.
What that was, though, he did not know yet.

 “I understand one thing,” he muttered, recalling the perfect, beautiful face of his queen and the cheers
that accompanied even her briefest appearances. “I understand that I must find out the truth wherever
that truth leads…even if in the end it costs me my very life…”



 The shadowed form touched with his talon the small, golden sphere in his other scaled palm, bringing it
to life. Within it, there materialized another, almost identical shadow. The light from the sphere did nothing
to push back the darkness surrounding the figure, just as on the other end the sphere used by the second
form also failed. The magic cast to preserve each one’s identity was old and very strong.

“The Well is still in the midst of terrible throes,” commented the one who had initiated contact.

“So it has been for some time,” replied the second, tail flicking behind him. “The night elves play with
powers they do not appreciate.”

“Has there been an opinion formed on your end?”

The darkened head within the sphere shook once.

“Nothing significant so far…but what can they possibly do save perhaps destroy themselves? It would
not be the first time one of the ephemeral races did so and surely not the last.”

The first nodded. “So it seems to us…and the others.”

“All the others?” hissed the second, for the first time some true curiosity in his tone. “Even those of the
Earth Warder’s flight?”

“No…they keep their own counsel…as usual of late. They are little more than Neltharion’s reflection.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 “Unimportant, then. Like you, we shall continue to monitor the night elves’ folly, but it is doubtful that it
will amount to much more than the extinction of their kind. Should it prove to be more, we shall act if we
are ordered to act by our lord, Malygos.”

“The pact remains unbroken,” responded the first. “We, too, shall act only if commanded by her
majesty, the glorious Alexstrasza.”

 “This conversation is over, then.” With that, the sphere went black. The second form had severed the
link.

 The other rose, dismissing the sphere. With a hiss, he shook his head at the ignorance of the lesser races.
They constantly meddled in things beyond their capabilities and so often paid fatally for it. Their mistakes
were their own to suffer, so long as the world as a whole did not suffer with them. If that happened, then
the dragons would have to act.

“Foolish, foolish night elvesss…”



But in a place between worlds, in the midst of chaos incarnate, eyes of fire turned in sudden interest, the
work of the Azshara’s Highborne having also reached them.

 Somewhere, the one who gazed realized, somewhere someone had called upon the power. Someone
had drawn from the magic in the mistaken belief that they and they alone knew of it, knew how to wield
it…but where?

He searched, almost had the source, then lost it. It was near, though, very near.

 He would wait. Like the others, he had begun to grow hungry again. Surely if he waited a little longer, he
would sense exactly where among the worlds the casters were. He smelled their eagerness, their
ambition. They would not be able to stop drawing from the magic. Soon…soon he would find the way
through to their little world…

And he and the rest wouldfeed.


 FIVE
Brox had a bad, bad feeling about their mission.

“Where are they?” he muttered. “Where are they?”

 How did one hide a dragon, the orc wanted to know. The tracks were evident to a point, but then all he
and Gaskal could find afterward were the footprints of a human, possibly two. Since the orcs were near
enough to notice if a dragon launched itself into the air—and they had seen no such astonishing
sight—then it only made sense that the leviathan had to be nearby.

“Maybe that way,” suggested the younger warrior, his brow furrowed deep. “That pass.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Too narrow,” growled Brox. He sniffed the air. The scent of dragon filled his nostrils. Almost masked
by it was the smell of human. Dragons and wizards.

Treaty or no treaty, this would be a good day to die…if Brox could just find his foes.

Kneeling down to study the tracks better, the veteran had to admit that Gaskal’s suggestion made the
most sense. The two sets of tracks led into the narrow pass while the dragon’s simplyvanished. Still, if the
orcs confronted the other intruders, the beast would surely come.

Not giving his companion any sign as to his true intentions, the older warrior rose. “Let’s go.”

 Weapons ready, they trotted into the pass. Brox snorted as he looked it over. Definitely too narrow for
a dragon, even a half-grown one. Wherewas the beast?

 They had only gone a short distance when from further in they heard the monstrous howl of a beast. The
two orcs glanced at each other, but did not slow. No true warrior turned at the first sound of danger.

 Deeper they went. The shadows played games, making it seem as if unnatural creatures lurked all
around them. Brox’s breathing grew heavier as he sought to keep pace with Gaskal. His ax weighed
heavily in his hand.

A shout—a human shout—echoed from only a short distance ahead.

“Brox—” the younger orc began.

But at that moment, a monstrous vision filled their view, a fiery image like nothing either had ever seen.

It filled the pass, overflowing even into the rock. It did not seem alive, but nonetheless moved as if with
purpose. Sounds—random, chaotic sounds—filled the orcs’ ears and when Brox stared into the center,
he felt as if he stared into Forever.

 Orcs were not creatures subject to easy fear, but the monstrous and surely magical vision overwhelmed
the two warriors. Brox and Gaskal froze before it, aware that simple weapons would hardly turn it aside.

 Brox had desired a heroic death, not one such as this. There was no nobility in dying so. The thing
looked capable of swallowing him as readily and without notice as it would a gnat.

And that made his decision for him. “Gaskal! Move! Run!”

 Yet Brox himself failed to follow his own command. He turned to run, yes, but slipped like an awkward
infant in the slick snow. The huge orc tumbled to the ground, striking his head. His weapon fell just out of
reach.

 Gaskal, unaware of what had happened to his comrade, had not fled back, but rather darted to the side,
to a depression in one of the walls. There he planted himself inside, certain of the protection of the solid
rock.

Still trying to clear his head, Brox realized Gaskal’s mistake. Rising to his knees, he shouted, “Not there!
Away!”

But the cacophony of sounds drowned out his warning. The fearsome anomaly moved forward…and
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Brox watched with horror as Gaskal was caught on its very edge.

A thousand screams escaped the stricken orc as Gaskal both aged and grew younger simultaneously.
Gaskal’s eyes bulged and his body rippled like liquid. He stretched and contracted…

And with a last ungodly cry, the younger orc shriveled within himself, contracting more and more…until
he completely vanished.

“By the Horde…” Brox gasped, standing. He stared at the spot where Gaskal had stood, still somehow
hoping that his companion would miraculously reappear unharmed.

Then it finally sank in that he was seconds from being engulfed by the same monstrosity.

Brox turned, instinctively seized his ax, and ran. He felt no shame in it. No orc could fight this. To die as
Gaskal had died would be a futile gesture.

But as fast as the orc ran, the fiery vision moved faster. Nearly deafened by the countless sounds and
voices, Brox gritted his teeth. He knew he could not outpace it, not now, but he continued to try…

He managed only two steps more before it swallowed him whole.

***

Every bone, every muscle, every nerve in Krasus’s body screamed. It was the only reason the dragon
mage finally stirred from the black abyss of unconsciousness.

 What had happened? He still did not quite know. One minute, he had been trying to reach Rhonin—and
then somehow despite not being near it he, too, had been swallowed by the anomaly. His mental link to
the human wizard had literally dragged Krasus along.

Images flashed through his befuddled mind again. Landscapes, creatures, artifacts. Krasus had
witnessed time in its ultimate aspect, all at once.

Aspect?That word summoned another dread vision, one he had thankfully forgotten until now. In the
midst of the swirling chaos of time, Krasus had glimpsed a sight that left his heart and hope shattered.

 There, in the center of the fury, he had seen Nozdormu, the great Aspect of Time…trapped like a fly in
a web.

 Nozdormu had been there in all his terrible glory, a vast dragon not of flesh, but of the golden sands of
eternity. His glittering, gemlike eyes, eyes the color of the sun, had been open wide, but had not in turn
seen the insignificant figure of Krasus. The great dragon had been in the throes of both battle and agony,
ensnared yet also fighting to hold everything together—absolutelyeverything.

Nozdormu was both victim and savior. Trapped in all time, he also held it from falling apart. If not for the
Aspect, the fabric of reality would have collapsed there and then. The world Krasus knew would have
disappeared forever. It would never have even existed.

 A new surge of pain tore through Krasus. He cried out in the ancient tongue of the dragons, momentarily
losing his accustomed control. Yet, with the pain came the realization that he still lived. That knowledge
caused him to fight, to force himself back to full consciousness…
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




He opened his eyes.

 Trees greeted his gaze. Towering, lush trees with green canopies that nearly blotted out the sky. A forest
in the bloom of life. Birds sang while other creatures rustled and scurried through the underbrush.
Vaguely Krasus registered the setting sun and soft, drifting clouds.

So peaceful a landscape, the dragon mage almost wondered if he had after all died and gone to the
beyond. Then, a not so heavenly sound, a muttered curse, caught his attention. Krasus looked to his left.

 Rhonin rubbed the back of his head as he tried to force himself up slightly. The fiery-haired human had
landed face-down only a few yards from his former mentor. The wizard spat out bits of dirt and grass,
then blinked. By pure accident, he looked in Krasus’s direction first.

“What—?” was all he managed.

 Krasus tried to speak but all that came from his own mouth at first was a sick croak. He swallowed,
then tried again.

“I…do not know. Are you…are you injured in any way?”

Flexing his arms and legs, Rhonin grimaced. “Everything hurts…but…but nothing seems broken.”

 After a similar test, the dragon mage came to the same conclusion concerning himself. That they had
arrived so intact astonished him…but then he recalled the magic of Nozdormu at work in the anomaly.
Perhaps the Aspect of Time had noted them after all and done what he could to save the two.

But if that was the case…

Rhonin rolled onto his back. “Where are we?”

 “I cannot say. I feel I should know it, but—” Krasus stopped as vertigo suddenly seized hold of him. He
fell back onto the ground, closing his eyes until the feeling passed.

“Krasus? What happened?”

“Nothing truly…I believe. I am still not recovered from what happened. My weakness will go away.”
Yet, he noted that Rhonin already appeared much better, even sitting up and trying to stretch. Why
would a frail human better survive the anomaly’s turmoil than he?

 With grim determination, Krasus also sat up. The vertigo sought to overwhelm him again, but the dragon
mage fought it down. Trying to take his mind from his troubles, he looked around once more. Yes, he
certainly sensed a familiarity about his surroundings. At some point, he had visited this region, but when?

When?

The simple question filled him with a sudden dread.When…

Nozdormu trapped in eternity…all time open to the anomaly…

The thick woods and the growing shadows created by the vanishing sun made it virtually impossible to
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




see enough to identify the land. He would have to take to the air. Surely a short flight would be safe. The
area seemed bereft of any settlement.

“Rhonin, remain here. I will scout from above, then return shortly.”

“Is that wise?”

 “I think it absolutely necessary.” Without a further word, Krasus stretched out his arms and began
transforming.

Or rather, hetried to transform. Instead, the dragon mage doubled over in agony and overwhelming
weakness. His entire body felt turned inside out and he lost all sense of balance.

 Strong arms caught him just as he fell. Rhonin carefully dragged him to a soft spot, then helped his
companion down.

“Are you all right? You looked as if—”

Krasus cut him off. “Rhonin…I could not change. I could not change…”

 The young wizard frowned, not comprehending. “You’re still weak, Master Krasus. The trip through
that thing—”

“Yet, you are standing. Take no offense from me, human, but what we passed through should have left
you in a far worse state than mine.”

The other nodded, understanding. “I just figured that you spent yourself trying to keep me alive.”

 “I am afraid to tell you that once we entered it, I could do no more for you than I could for myself. In
fact, if not for Nozdormu—”

“Nozdormu?” Rhonin’s eyes widened. “What’s he got to do with our survival?”

“You did not see him?”

“No.”

 Exhaling, the dragon mage described what he had seen. As he did, Rhonin’s expression grew
increasingly grim.

“Impossible…” the human finally breathed.

 “Terrifying,” Krasus corrected him. “And now I must tell you also that, even if Nozdormu did save us
from the raw forces of the anomaly, I fear he did not send us back to where we came from…or even
when.”

“You think…you think we’re in a different time?”

“Yes…but as to what period…I cannot say. I also cannot say how we will be able to get back to our
own era.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Slumping back, Rhonin gazed into empty space. “Vereesa…”

“Have courage! I said I cannot say how we will be able to get back, but that does not mean that we will
not try! Still, our first action must be to find sustenance and shelter…and some knowledge of the land. If
we can place ourselves, we might be able to calculate where best to find the assistance we need. Now,
help me up.”

With the human’s aid, Krasus stood. After a few tentative steps, he decreed himself well enough to
walk. A short discussion on which direction to take ended with agreement to head north, toward some
distant hills. There the two might be able to see far enough over the trees the next day to sight some
village or town.

 The sun fell below the horizon barely an hour into their trek, but the pair continued on. Fortunately,
Rhonin had in one of his belt pouches some bits of travel food and a bush they passed supplied them with
a few handfuls of edible if sour berries. In addition, the smaller, almost elven form Krasus wore required
far less food than his true shape. Still, both were aware that come the next day they would have to find
more substantial fare if they were to survive.

 The thicker garments used for the mountains proved perfect to keep them warm once darkness reigned.
Krasus’s superior vision also enabled them to avoid some pitfalls in their path. Still, the going was slow
and thirst began to take its toll on the pair.

 Finally, a slight trickling sound to the west led them to a small stream. Rhonin and Krasus knelt gratefully
and began to drink.

 “Thank the Five,” the dragon mage said as they drank. Rhonin nodded silently, too busy trying to
swallow the entire stream.

After they had their fill, the two sat back. Krasus wanted to go on, but neither he nor the human clearly
had the strength to do so. They would have to rest for the night here, then continue on at first light.

 He suggested as much to Rhonin, who readily agreed. “I don’t think I could go another step,” the wizard
added. “But I think I can still create a fire if you like.”

 The idea of a fire enticed Krasus, but something inside him warned against it. “We shall be warm enough
in our garments. I would prefer to err on the side of caution for now.”

“You’re probably right. We could be in the time of the Horde’s first invasion for all we know.”

 That seemed a bit unlikely to Krasus considering the peacefulness of the woods, but the centuries had
produced other dangers. Fortunately, their present location would keep them fairly secreted from most
creatures passing near. A rising slope also gave them a natural wall to hide behind.

More out of exhaustion than agreement, they stayed where they were, literally falling asleep on the spot.
Krasus’s slumber, however, was a troubled one in which his dreams reflected events.

 Again he saw Nozdormu struggling against that which was his very nature. He saw all time tangled,
confused, and growing more unstable each moment the anomaly existed.

Krasus saw something else, too, a faint, fiery glare, almost like eyes, gazing hungrily on all it saw. The
dragon mage frowned in his sleep as his subconscious tried to recollect why such an image would seem
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




so terribly familiar…

 But then the slight clink of metal against metal intruded, ripping apart his dreams and scattering the bits
away just as Krasus was on the verge of remembering what the burning eyes represented.

Even as he stirred, Rhonin’s hand clamped over his mouth. Early in his long, long life, such an affront
would have made the dragon teach the mortal creature a painful lesson in manners, but now Krasus not
only had more patience than in his youth, he also had more trust.

 Sure enough, the clink of metal again sounded. So very slight, but to the trained ears of either spellcaster,
still like thunder.

 Rhonin pointed upward. Krasus nodded. Both cautiously stood, trying to see over the slope. Hours had
clearly passed since they had fallen asleep. The woods were silent save for the songs of a few insects. If
not for the brief, unnatural sounds they had heard, Krasus would have thought nothing amiss.

Then a pair of large, almost monstrous shapes materialized beyond the slope. At first they were
unrecognizable, but then Krasus’s superior vision identified them as not two creatures, but ratherfour.

A pair of riders atop long, muscular panthers.

 They were tall, very lean, but clearly warriors. They were clad in armor the color of the night and wore
high, crested helms with nose guards. Krasus could not yet make out their faces, but they moved with a
fluidity he did not see in most humans. Both the riders and their sleek, black mounts journeyed along as if
little troubled by the darkness, which made the dragon mage quickly caution his companion.

 “They will see you before you clearly see them,” Krasus whispered. “What they are, I do not know, but
they are not of your kind.”

 “There’s more!” Rhonin returned. Despite his inferior vision, he had been gazing in just the right direction
to catch another pair of riders approaching.

The four soldiers moved in almost complete silence. Only the occasional breath from an animal or
metallic movement gave any sign of their presence. They looked to be involved in an intense hunt…

Krasus came to the dread conclusion that they were looking for Rhonin and him.

One of the foremost riders reined his monstrous, saber-toothed mount to a halt, then raised his hand to
his face. A small flash of blue light briefly illuminated the area around him. In his gauntleted hand the rider
held a small crystal, which he focused on the dark landscape. After a moment, he cupped the artifact with
his other hand, dousing the light.

 The use of the magical crystal only partly bothered Krasus. What little he had seen of the hunter’s
scowling, violet countenance worried him far more.

“Night elves…”he whispered.

The rider wielding the crystal instantly looked Krasus’s way.

“They’ve seen us!” muttered Rhonin.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Cursing himself for a fool, Krasus pulled the wizard with him. “Into the deeper woods! It is our only
hope!”

 A single shout echoed through the night…and then the woods filled with riders. Their fearsome yet agile
mounts leapt nimbly along, padded feet making no sound as the beasts moved. Like their masters, they
had gleaming, silver eyes that enabled them to see their quarry well despite the darkness. The panthers
roared lustily, eager to reach the prey.

 Rhonin and Krasus slid down a hill and into a thicket. One rider raced past them, but another turned and
continued pursuit. Behind them, more than a dozen other riders spread out through the area, intending to
cut off their quarry.

 The two reached the denser area, but the lead rider was nearly upon them. Turning about, Rhonin
shouted a single word.

 A blinding ball of pure force struck the night elf square in the chest, sending him flying back off his steed
and into the trunk of a tree with a resounding crash.

The powerful assault only served to make the others more determined to catch them. Despite the harder
going, the riders pushed their mounts on. Krasus glanced to the east and saw that others had already
made their way around the duo.

 Instinctively, he cast a spell of his own. Spoken in the language of pure magic, it should have created a
wall of flame that would have kept their pursuers at bay. Instead, small bonfires burst to life in random
locations, most of them useless as any defense. At best, they served only as momentary distractions to a
handful of the riders. Most of the night elves did not even pay them any mind.

Worse, Krasus doubled over in renewed pain and weakness.

 Rhonin came to the rescue again. He repeated a weaker variation of the dragon mage’s spell, but where
Krasus had received for his efforts lackluster results and physical agony, the human wizard garnered an
unexpected bounty. The woods before their pursuers exploded with hungry, robust flames, driving the
armored riders back in complete disarray.

Rhonin looked as startled at the results as the night elves, but managed to recover quicker. He came to
Krasus’s side and helped the stricken mage retreat from the scene.

“They will—” Krasus had to gasp for breath. “They will find a path around soon! They know this place
well from the looks of it!”

“What did you call them?”

“They are night elves, Rhonin. You recall them?”

 Both dragon mage and human had spent their part in the war against the Burning Legion near or in
Dalaran, but tales had come from far off of the appearance of the night elves, the legendary race from
which Vereesa’s kind was descended. The night elves had appeared when disaster had seemed imminent
and it was no understatement to say that the outcome might have been different if they had not joined the
defenders.

“But if these are night elves, then aren’t we allies?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 “You forget that we are not necessarily in the same time period. In fact, until their reappearance, it was
thought by even the dragons that their kind had become extinct after the end of—” Krasus became very
subdued, not at all certain he wanted to follow his thoughts to their logical conclusion.

 Shouts erupted nearby. Three riders closed on them, curved swords raised. In the lead rode the one
who wielded the blue crystal. Rhonin’s flames illuminated his face, the handsomeness typical of any elf
forever ruined by a severe scar running down the left side from near the eye to the lip.

 Krasus tried to cast another spell, but it only served to send him to his knees. Rhonin guided him down,
then faced the attackers.

“Rytonus Zerak!”he shouted.

 The branches nearest the night elves suddenly clustered, forming a weblike barrier. One rider became
tangled in them and slipped from his mount. A second reined his protesting panther to a halt behind the
one caught.

Their leader sliced through the branches as if cutting air, his blade leaving a streak of red lightning in its
deadly wake.

“Rhonin!” Krasus managed. “Flee! Leave!”

 His former student had as little intention of obeying such a command as the dragon mage would have in
his place. Rhonin reached into his belt pouch and from it drew what first looked like a band of glowing
quicksilver. The quicksilver swiftly coalesced into a gleaming blade, a gift to Rhonin from an elven
commander at the end of the war.

 In the light of the wizard’s blade, the haughty expression of the night elves’ leader transformed into
surprise. Nonetheless, he met Rhonin’s sword with his own.

 Crimson and silver sparks flared. Rhonin’s entire body shook. The night elf nearly slipped from the
saddle. The panther roared, but because of his rider could not reach their foe with his razor-sharp claws.

 They traded blows again. A wizard Rhonin might be, but he had learned over his life the value of being
able to fight by hand. Vereesa had trained him so that even among seasoned warriors he could hold his
own…and with the elven blade he stood a good chance of success against any one foe.

But not against many. Even as he kept both night elf and beast at bay, three more riders arrived, two
manipulating a net. Krasus heard a sound from behind him and glanced over his shoulder to see three
more coming, also bearing a huge net.

Try as he might, he could not get the words of power out. He, a dragon, was helpless.

Rhonin saw the first net and backed up. He held the sword ready in case the night elves tried to snare
him. The leader urged his mount forward, keeping Rhonin’s attention.

“B-behind you!” Krasus called, the weakness overcoming him again. “There’s another—”

 A booted foot kicked the weakened mage in the side of the head. Krasus retained consciousness, but
could not focus.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Through bleary eyes, he watched as the dark forms of the night elves closed in on his companion.
Rhonin fended off a pair of blades, chased back one of the huge cats…and then the net caught him from
behind.

 He managed to sever one section, but the second net fell over him, entangling Rhonin completely. Rhonin
opened his mouth, but the lead rider moved up and struck him hard across the jaw with his gauntleted
fist.

The human wizard dropped.

 Enraged, Krasus managed to pull himself partway from his stupor. He muttered and pointed at the
leader.

 His spell worked this time, but went astray. A bolt of golden lightning struck not the target in question,
but rather a tree near one of the other hunters. Three large limbs ripped free, collapsing on one rider and
crushing both him and his mount.

 The lead night elf glared in Krasus’s direction. The dragon mage tried futilely to protect himself as fists
and boots pummeled him into submission…and finally unconsciousness.



 He watched as his subordinates beat at the peculiar figure who had, more by chance than by skill, slain
one of their own. Long after it was clear their victim had lost all sense, he let his warriors take out their
frustration on the unmoving body. The panthers hissed and growled, smelling blood, and it was all the
night elves could do to keep them from joining in the violence.

 When he judged that they had reached the limits of safety, that any further beating would jeopardize the
life of their prisoner, he gave the command to halt.

“Lord Xavius wants all alive,” the scarred night elf snapped. “We don’t want him disappointed, do we?”

The others straightened, fear abruptly appearing in their eyes. Well they might fear, he thought, for Lord
Xavius had a tendency to reward carelessness with death…painful, lingering death.

And often he chose the willing hand of Varo’then to deal out that death.

 “We were careful, Captain Varo’then,” one of the soldiers quickly insisted. “They will both survive the
journey…”

 The captain nodded. It still amazed him how the queen’s counselor had even detected the presence of
these unusual strangers. All Xavius had said when he had summoned faithful Varo’then was that there
had been some sort of odd manifestation and that he wanted the captain to investigate and bring back
anyone unusual discovered in the vicinity. Varo’then, ever sharp-eyed, had noticed the slight furrowing of
the lord’s brow, the only hint that Xavius was more disturbed about this unknown “manifestation” than he
hinted.

Varo’then eyed the prisoners as their bound bodies were draped unceremoniously over one of the
panthers. Whatever the counselor had expected, it surely did not include a pair such as this. The weak
one who had managed the last spell looked vaguely like a night elf, but his skin was pale, almost white.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




The other one, obviously a younger and far more talented spellcaster…Varo’then did not know what to
make of him. He was not unlike a night elf…but was clearly not. He looked like no creature the veteran
soldier had ever seen.

 “No matter. Lord Xavius will sort it all out,” Varo’then murmured to himself. “Even if he has to tear them
limb from limb or flay them alive to get the truth…”

 And whichever course the counselor took, good, loyal Captain Varo’then would be there to lend his
experienced hand.


 SIX
 It was a troubled Malfurion who returned to his home near the roaring falls just beyond the large night
elven settlement of Suramar. He had chosen the site because of the tranquility and untransformed nature
around the falls. Nowhere else did he feel so at peace, save perhaps in Cenarius’s hidden grove.

 A low-set, rounded domicile formed from both tree and earth, Malfurion’s simple home was a far
contrast from those of most night elves. Not for him was the gaudy array of colors that bespoke of his
kind’s tendency to try to out-shine one another. The colors of his home were those of earth and life, the
forest greens, the rich, fertile browns, and kindred shades. He tried to adapt to his surroundings, not
force them to adapt to him as was his people’s way.

Yet nothing about his home gave Malfurion any sense of comfort this night. Still fiercely clear in his mind
were the thoughts and images he had experienced while walking the Emerald Dream. They had opened
up doors in his imagination he wished desperately to shut again, but knew would be impossible.

“The visions you see in the Emerald Dream, they can mean many things,” Cenarius had insisted, “no
matter how true they might look. Even what we think is real—such as your view of Zin-Azshari—may
not be so, for the dreamland plays its own games on our limited minds…”

Malfurion knew that the demigod had only been trying to assuage him, that what the night elf saw had
been truth. He understood that Cenarius was actually as concerned about the reckless spellcasting taking
place in the palace of Azshara as his student was.

 The power that the Highborne had been summoning…what could it be for? Did they not sense how
stressed the fabric of the world had grown near the Well? It was still unfathomable to him that the queen
could condone such careless and possibly destructive work…and yet Malfurion could not shake the
certainty that she was as much a part of it as any of her subordinates. Azshara was no simple figurehead;
she truly ruled, even when it came to her arrogant Highborne.

 He tried to return to his normal routine, hoping that would help him forget his troubles. There were but
three rooms to the young night elf’s home, yet another example of the simplicity of his life compared to
that of others. In one stood his bed and the handful of books and scrolls he had gathered concerning
nature and his recent studies. In another, toward the back, was the larder and a small, plain table where
he prepared his meals.

 Malfurion considered both rooms nothing more than necessities. The third, the communal room, was
ever his favored place. Here where the light of the moon shone bright at night and the glistening waters of
the falls could be seen, he sat in the center and meditated. Here, with a sip of the honey-nectar wine so
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




favored by his kind, he looked over his work and tried to comprehend what Cenarius had taught him the
lesson before. Here, by the short, ivory table where a meal could be spread out, he also visited with
Tyrande and Illidan.

 But there would be no Tyrande or Illidan this evening. Tyrande had returned to the temple of Elune to
continue her own studies and Malfurion’s twin, in what was another sign of their growing dissimilarities,
now preferred the raucousness of Suramar to the serenity of the forest.

Malfurion leaned back, his face agleam in the light of the moon. He shut his eyes to think, hoping to calm
his nerves—

No sooner had he done so, though, when something large moved across the field of moonlight, briefly
putting Malfurion in total darkness.

 The night elf’s eyes snapped open just in time to catch a glimpse of a huge, ominous form. Malfurion
immediately leapt to the door and flung it open.

But to his surprise, only the rushing waters of the nearby falls met his tense gaze.

 He stepped outside, peered around. Surely no creature so large could move so fast. The bullish Tauren
and ursine Furbolgs were not unknown to him, but while they matched in size the peculiar shadow,
neither of the two races was known for swiftness. A few branches rustled in the wind and a night bird
sang somewhere in the distance, but Malfurion could find no sign of his supposed intruder.

Simply your own nerves,he finally chided himself.Your own uncertainties.

 Returning inside, Malfurion seated himself again, his mind already caught up once more in his troubles.
Unlike his phantom intruder, he was certain that he had not imagined or misread anything concerning the
palace and the Well. Somehow, Malfurion would have to learn more, more than the Emerald Dream
could at present reveal to him.

And, he suspected, he would have to do it very, very quickly.

***

 He had almost been caught. Like an infant barely able to walk, he had almost lumbered right into the
creature’s lair. Hardly a worthy display of the well-honed skills for which a veteran orc warrior was
known.

 Brox had not worried about his ability to defend himself had the creature caught him, but now was not
the time to give in to his own desire to meet a glorious finish. Besides, from what he had seen of the lone
figure, it would hardly have been a good match. Tall, but too spindly, too unprotected. Humans were
much more interesting and worthy opponents…

 Not for the first time his head throbbed. Brox put a hand to his temple, fighting the pain. A swirling
confusion reigned in his mind. What had happened to him in the past several hours, the orc still could not
say with complete certainty. Instead of being ripped apart like Gaskal as he had expected, he was
catapulted into madness. Things beyond the comprehension of a simple warrior had materialized and
vanished before his eyes and Brox recalled flying around in a swirl of chaotic forces, all while countless
voices and sounds had assailed him almost to the point of deafness.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




In the end, it had all proven too much. Brox had blacked out, certain he would never wake.

 He had, of course, but it was not to find himself safely back in the mountains or still trapped in the
insanity. Instead, Brox discovered himself in an almost tranquil landscape consisting of tall trees and
bucolic rolling hills for as far as the eye could see. The sun was setting and the only sounds of life were
the musical calls of birds.

 Even had he been dropped into the midst of a horrendous battle rather than this quiet scene, Brox could
have done nothing but lay where he was. It had taken the orc more than an hour to recover enough to
just stand, much less travel. Fortunately, during that anxious waiting time, Brox had discovered one
miracle. His ax, which he thought lost, had been swallowed with him and deposited but a few yards from
the orc. Not yet able to use his legs, Brox dragged himself to the weapon. He had not been able to wield
it, but clutching its handle had given him some comfort while he waited for his strength to return.

 The moment he was able to walk, Brox had quickly pushed on. It did not pay to stay in one place when
in a strange land, no matter how peaceful it looked. Situations always changed even in the most peaceful
places and, in his experience, generally not for the better.

 The orc tried to understand what had happened to him. He had heard of wizards traveling by means of
special spells from one location to another, but if this was such a spell, then the mage who had cast it
surely had to be insane. Either that, or the incantation had gone awry, certainly a possibility.

 Alone and lost, Brox’s instincts took over. No matter what had happened so far, Thrall would want him
to find out more about the inhabitants of this place and what their intentions might be. If they were
responsible by accident or design for reaching out with magic to the orcs’ new home- land, they posed a
possible threat. Brox could die later; his first duty was to protect his people.

 At least now he had some notion as to what race lived here. Brox had never seen or heard of a night elf
before the war against the Burning Legion, but he could never forget their unique looks. Somehow, he
had landed in some realm ruled by their kind, which at least opened to him the hope of returning home
once he gathered what information he could. The night elves had fought alongside the orcs in Kalimdor;
surely that meant that Brox had merely ended up on some obscure part of the continent. With a little
reconnaissance he was certain that he would be able to figure out which direction the orc lands were and
head to them.

 Brox had no intention of simply going up to one of the night elves and asking the way. Even if these were
the same creatures who had allied themselves with the orcs and humans, he could not be certain that
those of this land would be friendly to an intruder now. Until he knew more, the wary orc intended to
remain well out of sight.

Although Brox did not immediately encounter any more such dwellings, he did note a glow in the
distance that likely originated from some larger settlement. After a moment’s consideration, the orc hefted
his weapon and pushed on toward it.

 Barely had he made that decision, however, when shadows suddenly approached from the opposite
direction. Pressing flat against a wide tree, Brox watched a pair of riders approach. His eyes narrowed in
surprise when, instead of good horses, he saw that they raced along on swift, gigantic panthers. The orc
gritted his teeth and readied himself in case either the riders or their beasts sensed him.

 But the armored figures hurried past as if determined to be somewhere quickly. They appeared quite
comfortable traveling in little light, which made the orc suddenly recall that night elves could see in
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




darkness as well as he could see in day.

That did not bode well. Orcs had fair night vision, but not nearly as good as that of the night elves.

 He hefted his ax. Perhaps he did not have the advantage in terms of sight, but Brox would match himself
against any of the scrawny figures he had so far come across. Day or night, an ax in the hands of an orc
warrior skilled in its use would make the same deep, fatal cut. Even the elaborate armor he noted on the
riders would not long stand up to his beloved weapon.

 With the riders out of view, Brox continued on cautiously. He needed to find out more about these
particular night elves and the only way to do that was to spy on their settlement. There he might find out
enough to know where in relation to home he now wandered. Then he could return to Thrall. Thrall
would know what to make of all this. Thrall would deal with these night elves who dabbled in dangerous
magic.

So very, very simple—

 He blinked, so caught up in his thoughts that he only now saw standing before him the tall female figure
clad in silver, moonlit robes.

She looked as startled as the orc felt…then her mouth opened and the night elf cried out.

 Brox started to reach for her—his only intention that of smothering the scream—but before he could do
anything, other cries arose and night elves began appearing from every direction.

A part of him desired to stand where he was and fight to the death, but the other part, that which served
Thrall, reminded him that this would achieve nothing. He would have failed in his mission, failed his
people.

With a snarl of outrage, he turned and fled back in the direction he had come.

 Yet, now it seemed that from every huge tree trunk, from every rising mound, figures popped into
sight—and each let out the alarm at the sight of the burly orc.

 Horns blared. Brox swore, knowing what such a sound presaged. Sure enough, moments later, he heard
feline growls and determined shouts.

 Glancing over his shoulder, he saw his pursuers nearing. Unlike the pair he had hidden from earlier, most
of the new riders were clad only in robes and breast plates, but that hardly erased them as a threat. Each
was not only armed, but their mounts presented an even more dire danger. One swipe of a paw would
slice the orc open, one bite of the saber-toothed jaws would rip off his head.

 Brox wanted to take his ax and sweep across their ranks, chopping away at rider and mount alike and
leaving a trail of blood and maimed bodies behind him. Yet, despite his desire to lay waste to those who
threatened him, Thrall’s teachings and commands held such violence in check. Brox growled and met the
first riders with the flat of his ax head. He knocked one night elf from his mount, then, after dodging the
cat’s claws, turned to seize another rider by the leg. The orc threw the second night elf atop the first,
knocking the air out of both.

A blade whistled by his head. Brox easily smashed the slim blade to fragments with his powerful ax. The
night elf wisely retreated, the stump of his weapon still gripped tightly.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The orc took advantage of the gap created by the retreat to slip past his pursuers. Some of the night
elves did not look at all eager to follow, which raised Brox’s spirits. More than his own honor, Thrall’s
pride in his chosen warrior continued to keep Brox from turning and making a foolish last stand. He
would not let his chief down.

 But just as escape looked possible, another night elf materialized before him, this one dressed in
shimmering robes of brilliant green with gold and ruby starbursts dotting the chest. A cowl obscured most
of the night elf’s long, narrow visage, but he seemed undaunted by the huge, brutish orc coming up on
him.

Brox waved his ax and shouted, trying to scare off the night elf.

The hooded figure raised one hand to chest level, the index and middle fingers pointed toward the
moonlit sky.

The orc recognized a spell being cast, but by that time it was already too late.

 To his astonishment, a circular sliver of the moon fell from the sky, falling upon Brox like a soft, misty
blanket. As it enshrouded him, the orc’s arms grew heavy and his legs weak. He had to fight to keep his
eyelids open.

 The ax slipping from his limp grasp, Brox fell to his knees. Through the silvery haze, he now saw other
similarly clad figures circling him. The hooded forms stood patiently, obviously watching the spell’s work.

 A sense of fury ignited Brox. With a low snarl, he managed to push himself up to his feet. This was not
the glorious death he had wanted! The night elves intended that he fall at their feet like a helpless infant!
He would not do it!

 Fumbling fingers managed to seize the ax again. To his pleasure, he noted some of the hooded figures
start. They had not expected such resistance.

 But as he tried to raise his weapon, a second silvery veil settled over him. What strength Brox had
summoned vanished again. When the ax fell this time, he knew he would be unable to retrieve it.

The orc took one wobbly step, then fell forward. Even then, Brox tried to crawl toward his foes,
determined not to make their victory an easy one.

A third veil dropped over him…and Brox blacked out.

***

Three nights…three nights and still nothing to show for our efforts…

Xavius was not pleased.



 Three of the Highborne sorcerers stepped back from the continual spellwork. They were immediately
replaced by those who had managed to replenish their strength with some overdue rest. Xavius’s false
black eyes turned to the three who had just finished. One of them noticed the dark orbs gazing their
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




direction and cringed. The Highborne might be the most glorious of the queen’s servants, but Lord
Xavius was the most glorious—and dangerous—of the Highborne.

 “Tomorrow night…tomorrow night we shall increase the field of power tenfold,” he declared, the
crimson streaks in his eyes flaring.

 Unable to meet his gaze, one of the other Highborne nonetheless dared say, “W-with all due respect, my
Lord Xavius, that risks much! Such an additional increase may destabilize all we have already
accomplished.”

“And what is that, Peroth’arn?” Xavius loomed over the other robed figures, his shadow seeming to
move of its own accord in the mad light of the spell. “Whathave we accomplished?”

“Why, we command more power than any night elf has ever commanded before!”

 Xavius nodded, then frowned. “Yes, and with it, we can squash an insect with a mountain-sized
hammer! You are a shortsighted fool, Peroth’arn! Consider yourself fortunate that your skill is demanded
for this effort.”

Clamping his mouth shut, the other night elf bowed his head gratefully.

 The queen’s counselor looked with disdain upon the rest of the Highborne. “What we seek to do, we
need perfect manipulation of the Well to accomplish! We must have the ability to slay the insect without
its even realizing the death until after the fact! We must have such precision, such a fine touch, that there
will be no question as to the perfect execution of our final goal! We—”

“Preaching again, my darling Xavius?”

 The melodic voice would have enchanted any of the other Highborne into killing themselves if it would
please the speaker, but not so the onyx-eyed Xavius. With a careless gesture, he dismissed the weary
spellcasters, then turned to the one person in the palace who did not rightly show him the respect he
deserved.

 She glittered as she entered, a vision of perfection that his magical orbs amplified. She was the glory of
the night elves, their beloved mistress. When she breathed, she made the crowds breathless. When she
touched the cheek of a favored warrior, he went out and willingly fought dragons and more, even if it
meant his certain destruction.

 The queen of the night elves was tall for a female, taller even than many males. Only Xavius truly
towered above her. Yet, despite her height, she moved like the wind, silent grace with every step. No cat
walked as silently as Azshara and none walked with as much confidence.

 Her deep, violet skin was as smooth as the almost sheer silk garment she wore. Her hair, long, thick,
lush, and moonlight silver, cascaded down around her shoulders and artfully curved backside. In contrast
to her previous visit, when she had matched her garments to her eyes, she now wore a flowing gown the
same wondrous color as her luxurious hair.

 Even Xavius secretly desired her, but on his own terms. His ambitions drove him far more than her wiles
ever could. Still, he found much use in her presence, just as he knew she found the same in his. They
shared an ultimate objective, but with differing rewards for each waiting at the end.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




When that goal was finally reached, Xavius would show Azshara who truly ruled.

 “Light of the Moon,” he began, expression obedient. “I preach only of your purity, your flawlessness!
These others I simply remind of their duty—nay, of theirlove —for you. They should not therefore wish
to fail…”

 “For they would be failing you, as well, my darling counselor.” Behind the stunning queen, two
handmaidens carried the train of her long, translucent gown. They shifted the train to the side as Azshara
seated herself on the special chair she had made the Highborne erect so that she could watch their efforts
in comfort. “And I think they fear that more than they love me.”

“Hardly, my mistress!”

The queen positioned herself to gaze upon the struggling spellcasters, her gown shifting to best display
her perfect form.

Xavius remained unmoved by her maneuver. He would have her and whatever else he desired after they
had succeeded in their great mission.

 A sudden flash of blazing light drew the eyes of both to the work of the sorcerers. Hovering in the center
of the circle created by the Highborne, a furious ball of energy continually remade itself. Its myriad
displays had a hypnotic effect, in great part because they often seemed to be opening up a doorway into
elsewhere. Xavius especially spent long hours staring into the night elves’ creation, seeing with his artificial
eyes what none of the others could.

 Watching now, the counselor wrinkled his brow. He squinted, studying the endless depths within. For
just the briefest of moments, he could have sworn that he had seen—

“I believe you are not listening to me, darling Xavius! Is that at all possible?”

He managed to recover. “As possible as living without breathing, Daughter of the Moon…but I admit I
was distracted enough that I may not have understood clearly. You said again something about—”

 A brief, throaty chuckle escaped Queen Azshara, but she did not contradict him. “What is there to
understand? I simply restated that surely we must soon triumph! Soon we shall have the power and
ability to cleanse our land of its imperfections, create of it the perfect paradise…”

 “So it shall be, my queen. So it shall be. We are but a short time from the creation of a grand golden
age. The realm—yourrealm—will be purified. The world will know everlasting glory!” Xavius allowed
himself a slight smile. “And the blighted, impure races that in the past have prevented such a perfect age
from issuing forth willcease to be.”

 Azshara rewarded his good words with a pleased smile of her own, then said, “I am glad to hear you
say that it will be soon. I have had more supplicants today, lord counselor. They came in fear of the
violence in and around the great Well. They asked me for guidance as to its cause and danger. Naturally,
I referred their requests to you.”

 “As you rightly should have, mistress. I will assuage their fears long enough for our precious task to
come to fruition. After that, it will be your pleasure to announce what has been done for the good of your
people…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“And they shall love me the more for it,” Azshara murmured, her eyes narrowed as if imagining the
grateful crowds.

“If they could possibly love you any more than they do already, my glorious queen.”

 Azshara accepted his compliment with a momentary lowering of her slitted eyes, then, with a smooth
grace of which only she was capable, rose from the chair. Her attendants quickly manipulated the train of
her gown so that it would not in the slightest hamper her movements. “I will make the wondrous
announcement soon, Lord Xavius,” she declared, turning away from the counselor. “See to it that all is
ready when I do.”

 “It will consume my waking hours,” he replied, bowing to her retreating form. “And be the dreams of my
slumber.”

But the moment she and her attendants had departed, a deep frown crossed the counselor’s cold visage.
He signaled to one of the stone-faced guards ever standing duty at the entrance to the chamber.

“If I am not alerted before the next time her majesty decides to join us, it will be your head. Is that
understood?”

“Yes, my lord,” the guard returned, expression never wavering.

 “I also expect to be notified of Captain Varo’then’s arrival before her majesty. His task is nothing with
which to sully her hands. Make certain that the captain—and whatever he brings with him—is led directly
to me.”

“Yes, my lord.”

Dismissing the guard, Xavius returned to the task of overseeing the Highborne’s spellwork.

A lattice of dancing magical energy now enshrouded the fiery sphere, which continued to remake itself.
As Xavius watched, the sphere folded within, almost as if it attempted to devour itself.

“Fascinating…” he whispered. This close, the lord counselor could feel the intense emanations, the
barely bound forces summoned up from the source of all the night elves’ magical might. It had been
Xavius who had first suspected that his kind had only so far skimmed the surface of the dark water’s
potential. The Well of Eternity was aptly named, for the more he studied it, the more he realized that its
bounty was endless. The physical dimensions of the Well were only a trick of the limited mind…the true
Well existed in a thousand dimensions, a thousand places, simultaneously.

And from every aspect of it, every variation of it, the Highborne would learn to draw whatever they
pleased.

The potential staggered even him.

Energies and colors unseen even by the others danced and fought before Xavius’s magical eyes. They
drew him in, their elemental power seductive. The lord counselor drank in the fantastic sight before him—

But from within, from deep beyond the physical world…he suddenly felt something stare back.

This time, the night elf knew he was not mistaken. Xavius sensed a presence, a distant presence. Yet,
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




despite that incredible distance, the might he also sensed was staggering.

 He tried to pull back, but it was already too late. Deep, so very deep within the captured energies of the
Well, the mind of the counselor was suddenly dragged beyond the edge of reality, beyond
eternity…until…

 I have searched long for you…came the voice. It was life, death, creation, destruction…and power
infinite.

Had he even desired to do so, Xavius would have been unable to wrench his eyes away from the abyss
within. Other eyes now snared his tightly…the eyes of the lord counselor’s newgod.

And now you have come to me…



 The waters bubbled as if boiling. Great waves rose and crashed down time and time again. Lightning
flashed from both the heavens and the dark Well.

Then came the whispers.

 The first of the night elves to hear them thought the sounds only the wild wind. They soon ignored them
completely, more concerned with the possible devastation of their elegant homes.

A few more astute, more attuned to the Well’s unearthly energies, heard them for what they were.
Voices from the Well itself. But what the voices said, even the majority of those could not say.

It was the one or two who heard clearly who truly

 feared…and yet did not speak of their fear to others, lest they be branded mad and cast out from their
society. Thus, they failed to heed the only warning they would truly get.

 The voices spoke of nothing but hunger. They hungered for everything. Life, energy, souls…they wanted
through to the world, through to the night elves’ pristine realm.

And once there, they would devour it…


 SEVEN
Their captors had grown very apprehensive…and to

Rhonin, that made them even more of a threat.

 It had much to do with the new stretch of forest that they had just entered. This area felt different to
Rhonin compared to the dark stretches they had so far crossed. Here their captors seemed not so much
the lords of the land as they did undesired intruders.

Dawn fast approached. He and Krasus, who appeared to still be unconscious, had been bound and
unceremoniously tossed onto the back of one of the animals. Each jostle by the huge panther threatened
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




to crack the wizard’s ribs, but he forced himself not to make any sound or movement that would reveal
to the night elves that he was awake.

 Yet, what did it matter if they knew? He had already tried several times to cast a spell, but for his
attempts had gained only a skull-splitting headache. Around his throat had been placed a small emerald
amulet, a simple-looking thing that was the source of his frustration. Whenever he tried to concentrate too
hard on his spells, his thoughts grew all muddled and his temples throbbed. He could not even shake the
amulet free. The night elves had secured it well. Krasus wore one also, but from him it seemed their
captors had nothing to fear. Rhonin also noted what had happened each time his former mentor had tried
to aid in the struggle. Krasus had even less mastery over his power than Rhonin, a disturbing notion.

“This isn’t the path we took,” snarled the scarred leader, whom the human had heard referred to as
Varo’then. “This isn’t the way it should be…”

“But we’ve followed it back exactly as we should’ve, my captain,” replied one of the others. “There was
no deviation—”

“Does that look like the spires of Zin-Azshari on the horizon?” Varo’then snapped. “I see nothing but
more damned trees, Koltharius…and there’s something I don’t like about them, either! Somehow, even
with our eyes keen and our path understood, we’ve headed elsewhere!”

“Should we turn back? Retrace our route?”

Rhonin could not see the captain’s face, but he could imagine the frustrated expression. “No…no…not
yet…”

 Yet, while Varo’then was not yet ready to give up on the trail, the wizard was becoming concerned
about it himself. With each step deeper into the thick, towering forest, he sensed some growing presence,
a presence the likes of which Rhonin had never experienced before. In some ways, it reminded him of
how he sensed Krasus whenever the dragon mage contacted him, but this was more…much more.

But what?

“The sun’s nearly upon us,” muttered another of the soldiers.

 From what Rhonin had so far ascertained, while his captors could function in daylight, they did not like it.
In some ways, it weakened them. They were creatures of magic—even if individually they might not
wield much of it—but their magic had to do with the night. If he could just rid himself of the amulet once
the sun had risen, Rhonin believed the odds would swing back in his favor.

 Making certain that no one watched, he surreptitiously shook his head. The amulet swung back and
forth, but would not slip off. Rhonin finally tried thrusting his head up, hoping that might dislodge the
piece. He risked being noticed by his captors, but that was a chance he had to take.

In the gloom of predawn, a face stared out at him from the nearby foliage.

No…the face waspart of the foliage. The leaves and twigs formed the features, even creating a lush
beard. The eyes were berries and a gap between the greenery represented what looked like a
mischievous mouth.

It vanished among the bushes as swiftly as it had appeared, making Rhonin wonder if he had simply
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




imagined it. A trick of the coming light? Impossible! Not with so much detail.

And yet…

 The scrape of a weapon being drawn from its sheath caught his attention. One by one the night elves
readied themselves for some battle that they did not understand, but knew was coming. Even the fierce
cats sensed trouble, for not only did they pick up their already swift pace, but their backs arched and
they bared their savage teeth.

Varo’then suddenly pointed to his right. “That way! That way! Quickly!”

At that moment, the forest erupted with life.

 Huge, foliage-thick branches swung down, obscuring the faces of the riders. Bushes leapt up, becoming
short, nimble figures with silent, smiling faces of green. The forest floor seemed to snag the claws of every
panther, sending more than one rider tumbling. The night elves shouted recklessly at one another, trying
to organize themselves, instead only adding to the chaos.

 A low moan echoed through the vicinity. Rhonin caught only a glance, but felt certain that he had seen a
massive tree bend over and sweep away two of the night elves and their mounts with its thick, leafy
crown.

 Curses filled the forest as Varo’then tried to regain command of his party. Those elves who remained
mounted sat in a jumble, attempting not only to cut at the things swarming around them, but also to keep
their excited panthers under control. For all their size, the huge cats clearly did not like what they faced,
often pulling back even when their riders insisted that they move forward.

 Varo’then cried out something and suddenly harsh, violet tentacles of radiant energy darted out at
various points in the forest. One struck an approaching bush sprite, instantly turning the creature into an
inferno. Yet, despite its apparent horrible demise, the creature continued forward without pause, leaving
a burning trail in its wake.

 Almost immediately, the wind, which had been nearly nonexistent prior to this, howled and roared as if
angered by the assault. It blew with such fury that dirt, broken tree limbs, and loose leaves flew up in vast
numbers, filling the air and further obscuring the night elves’ view. The flames snuffed out, their would-be
victim as oblivious to this phenomenal rescue as it had been to its previous peril. A huge, flying branch
struck down the night elf next to Varo’then.

“Regroup!” the scarred captain shouted. “Regroup and retreat! Hurry, blast you!”

A leafy hand covered Rhonin’s mouth. He looked again into the same startling face. Behind him, he felt
other hands grasping his legs.

With a rather unceremonious push, they sent the mage sliding forward.

 The panther took notice of this and roared. More of the small shrublike figures swarmed around the
beast, harassing it. As the world rocked around him, Rhonin caught sight of Varo’then twisting back to
see what was happening. The scowling elf swore as it registered that his prisoners were being stolen, but
before he could raise a hand to stop them, more branches came down, both entangling the captain’s arms
and face and blinding him.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




The bush creatures caught Rhonin well before he would have been in danger of striking the ground
headfirst. Silently and efficiently, they carried him like a battering ram into the thick forest. Rhonin could
only hope that Krasus, too, had been rescued, for he could see nothing but the leafy figure before him.
Despite their sizes, his companions were obviously strong.

 Then, to his dismay, a lone night elf atop a snarling panther cut off their path. The wizard recognized him
as the one called Koltharius. He had a desperate look in his eyes, as if Rhonin’s escape would mean the
worst for him. From what little Rhonin had learned of the captain, he did not doubt that.

Wasting no words, the night elf urged his beast forward. The elves Rhonin knew, especially his own
beloved Vereesa, were beings with the utmost respect for nature. Koltharius’s kind, however, seemed
not to care a whit for it; he slashed at the tree limbs and shrubbery slowing him with unbridled fury.
Nothing would keep him from his prey.

 Or so he might have thought. Huge, black birds abruptly dropped from the foliage above, surrounding
and harassing the night elf mercilessly. Koltharius swung madly about, but severed not even a pinfeather
from his avian attackers.

 So engrossed was the night elf by this latest assault that he did not notice another danger rising up from
the earth. The trees through which he needed to pass rose by more than two feet, as if stretching their
roots.

Koltharius’s mount, driven nearly to madness by the birds, did not pay enough attention to its course.

 The typically nimble feline first stumbled, then tripped badly as its paws became more and more
entangled. A mournful yowl escaped it as it flew sideways. Its rider tried to hold on, but that only served
to worsen his situation.

 The huge panther twisted, putting Koltharius between it and two massive tree trunks. Trapped, the night
elf was crushed between them, his armor crumpling like paper under the tremendous force. His cat
suffered little better, a terrible snapping sound at its neck accompanying the crash.

 Rhonin’s leafy companions moved on as if nothing had happened. For a few more minutes, the wizard
continued to hear the struggles of his former captors, but then the sounds suddenly shifted away, as if
Varo’then had finally led his bedraggled hunters to escape.

 On and on the tiny creatures carried him. He saw a movement to his right and made out what looked to
be the dragon mage’s still form being brought along in like fashion. For the first time, though, Rhonin
started to fear what his rescuers intended to do with the pair. Had they been taken from the night elves in
order to face some more horrific fate?

 The forest sprites slowed, finally halting at the edge of an open area. Despite the impossibility of the
angle, the first hints of daylight already lit up the opening. Small, delicate songbirds twittered merrily.
Myriad flowers of a hundred colors bloomed full and tall grass within waved gently, almost beckoningly,
to the newcomers.

 Again a leafy face filled his gaze. The open-gap smile widened and to his surprise Rhonin saw that a
small, utterly white flower bloomed within.

A tiny puff of pollen shot forth, splattering the human’s nose and mouth.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Rhonin coughed. His head swam. He felt the creatures move again, carrying him into the sunlight.

But before one ray could touch his face…the wizard passed out.



 Despite Rhonin’s belief otherwise, Krasus had not been unconscious most of the time. Weak, yes,
almost willing to let the darkness take him, true, but the dragon mage had fought both his physical and
mental debilitation and, if not a victor, he had at least suffered no defeat.

 Krasus, too, had noticed watchers in the woods, but he immediately recognized them as servants of the
forest. With senses still more attuned than those of his human companion, Krasus understood that the
night elves had beendrawn to this place purposely. Some force desired something of the armored figures
and it took no leap of logic to assume that he and Rhonin were the prizes in question.

 And so the dragon mage had kept perfectly still throughout the chaos. He had forced himself to do
nothing when the party was attacked and the creatures of the forest stole him and Rhonin from under the
elves’ very eyes. Krasus sensed no malice in their rescuers, but that did not mean the pair might not come
to harm later. He had remained secretly vigilant throughout the forest journey, hoping he would be of
more aid than the last time.

But when they had reached the sunlit opening, he had miscalculated. The face had appeared too swiftly,
breathed too unexpectedly upon him. Like Rhonin, Krasus had passed out.

Unlike Rhonin, he had slept only minutes.

 He awakened to, of all things, a small red bird perched atop his robed knee. The gentle sight so startled
the dragon mage that he gasped, sending the tiny avian fleeing to the branches above.

 With great caution, Krasus surveyed his surroundings. To all apparent evidence, he and Rhonin lay in the
midst of a mystical glade, an area of immense magic at least as ancient as the dragons. That the sun shone
here so brilliantly, that the grass, flowers, and birds radiated such peace, was no accident. Here was the
chosen sanctum of some being whom Krasus should have known—but could not in the least recall.

 And that was a problem of which he had not spoken truthfully to his companion. Krasus’s memories
were riddled with gaps. He had recognized the night elves for what they were, but other things, many of
them mundane, had completely vanished. When he tried to focus on them, the dragon mage found
nothing but emptiness. He was as weak in his mind as he was in his body.

 But why? Why had he suffered so much more than Rhonin? While a human mage of impressive abilities,
Rhonin was still a fragile mortal. If anyone should have been battered and beaten by their madcap flight
through time and space, it should have rightly been the lesser of the two travelers.

 The moment he thought it, Krasus felt guilty. Whatever the reason for Rhonin surviving more, Krasus
only shamed himself by wishing for a reversal of their fortunes. Rhonin had nearly sacrificed himself for his
former mentor several times.

 Despite his tremendous weakness and lingering pain, he pushed himself to his feet. Of the creatures who
had brought them here, Krasus saw no sign. Likely they had returned to being a literal part of the forest,
tending to its needs until next summoned to action by their lord. That these had been the simplest of the
forest’s guardians Krasus was well aware. The night elves were a relatively paltry threat.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




But what did the power that ruled here want of two wayward wanderers?

 Rhonin still slumbered deep and, judging by his own reaction to the pollen, Krasus expected him to do
so for quite some time. With no evident threat in sight, he dared leave the human sleeping, choosing now
to investigate the boundaries of their freedom.

The thick field of flowers surrounded the soft, open grass like a fence, with what appeared an equal
number pointed outward and inward. Krasus approached the closest section, watching the flowers
warily.

As he came within a foot of them, they turned to face him, opening fully.

 Instantly the dragon mage stepped back…and watched as the plants resumed their normal appearance.
A simple, soft wall of effective guardians. He and Rhonin were safe from any danger outside while at the
same time they were kept from causing trouble for the forest.

 In his present condition, Krasus did not even consider leaping over the flowers. Besides, he suspected
that doing so would only unleash some other hidden sentry, possibly one not as gentle.

There remained only one recourse. To better conserve his strength, he sat down and folded his legs.
Then, taking a deep breath, Krasus studied the surrounding glade one last time…and spoke to the air.

“I would talk with you.”

The wind picked up his words and carried them into the forest, where they echoed again and again. The
birds grew silent. The grass ceased waving.

Then came the wind again…and with it the reply.

“And so we shall talk…”

 Krasus waited. In the distance, he heard the slight clatter of hooves, as if some animal had chanced by at
this important moment. He frowned as the clatter grew nearer, then noticed a shadowy form coming
through the woods. A horned rider atop some monstrous steed?

But then, as it drew up to the flowery guardians and the sun, ever shining, caught it full, the dragon in
mortal form could only gape like a mere human child at the imposing sight.

“I know you…” began Krasus. “I know of you…”

 But the name, like so many other memories, would not come to him. He could not even say with any
certainty whether he had faced this mythic being before and surely that said something for the scope of
the holes in his mind.

 “And I know something of you,” said the towering figure with a torso akin to a night elf and a lower half
like that of a stag. “But not nearly as much as I would like…”

 On four strong legs, the master of the forest strode through the barrier of flowers, which gave way as
loyal hounds would to their handler. Some of the flowers and grass even caressed the legs gently,
lovingly.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“I am Cenarius…” he uttered to the slight figure sitting before him. “This is my realm.”

 Cenarius…Cenarius…legendary connotations fluttered through Krasus’s tattered mind, a few taking
root but most simply fading back to nothing. Cenarius. Spoken of by the elves and other forest dwellers.
Not a god, but…almost. A demigod, then. As powerful in his own way as the great Aspects.

 But there was more, so much more. Yet, strive as he might, the dragon mage could not summon any of
it.

His efforts must have shown on his face, for Cenarius’s stern visage grew more kindly. “You are not
well, traveler. Perhaps you should rest more.”

“No.” Krasus forced himself up, standing tall and straight before the demigod. “No…I would speak
now.”

 “As you like.” The antlered deity tilted his bearded head to one side, studying his guest. “You are more
than what you seem, traveler. I see hints of night elven but also sense far, far more. Almost you remind
me of—but that’s not likely.” The huge figure indicated Rhonin. “And he is unlike any creature to be
found within or without my domain.”

“We’ve come a long distance and are, frankly, lost, great one. We know not where we are.”

To the mage’s surprise, this brought thundering laughter from the demigod. Cenarius’s laughter made
more flowers bloom, brought songbirds to the branches around the trio, and set into motion a soft spring
breeze that touched Krasus’s cheek like a lover.

“Then youare from far off! Whereelse could you be, my friend? Where else could you be butKalimdor!”

 Kalimdor. That, at least, made sense, for where else would one find night elves in numbers? Yet
knowing where he and Rhonin had been deposited answered few other questions. “So I suspected, my
lord, but—”

 “I sensed an unsettling change in the world,” Cenarius interrupted. “An imbalance, a shifting. I sought out
its origin and location in secret…and while I did not find all I searched for…I was led to you two.” He
stepped past Krasus to once more study the slumbering Rhonin. “Two wanderers from nowhere. Two
lost souls from nothing. You are both enigmas to me. I would rather you had not been in the first place.”

“Yet you saved us from captivity—”

 The forest lord gave a snort worthy of the most powerful stag. “The night elves grow more arrogant.
They take what does not belong to them and trespass where they are not wanted. It is their assumption
that everything falls under their domination. Although they did not quite intrude upon my realm, I chose to
make them do so in order to teach them a lesson in humility and manners.” He smiled grimly. “That…and
they made it simpler for me by bringing what I desired directly here.”

Krasus felt his legs buckling. The effort to keep on his feet was proving monumental. With determination,
he stood his ground. “They, too, seemed to be aware of our sudden arrival.”

“Zin-Azshari is not without its own abilities. It does, after all, overlook the Well itself.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The dragon mage rocked, but this time not because of weakness. In his last statement, Cenarius had said
two words that set fear into Krasus’s heart.

“Zin…Zin-Azshari?”

“Aye, mortal! The capital of the night elves’ domain! Situated at the very shores of the Well of Eternity!
You know not even that?”

Disregarding the weakness he revealed to the demigod, Krasus dropped to the ground, sitting in the
grass and trying to drink in the staggering reality of the situation.

Zin-Azshari.

The Well of Eternity.

 He knew them both, even as perforated as his memory had become. Some things were of such epic
legend that it would have taken the complete eradicating of his mind for Krasus to have forgotten them.

 Zin-Azshari and the Well of Eternity. The first, the center of an empire of magic, an empire ruled by the
night elves. How foolish of him not to have realized that during their capture. Zin-Azshari had been the
focal point of the world for a period of centuries.

 The second, the Well, was the place of magic itself, the endlessly deep reservoir of power spoken of in
awed whispers by mages and sorcerers throughout the ages. It had served as the core of the night elves’
sorcerous powers, letting them cast spells of which even dragons had learned respect.

But both were things of the past…thefar past. Neither Zin-Azshari nor even the wondrous and sinister
Well existed. They had long, long ago vanished in a catastrophe that—that—

And there Krasus’s mind faltered again. Something horrible had happened that had destroyed the two,
had ripped the very world asunder…and for the life of him he could not recallwhat.

“You are not yet recovered,” Cenarius said with concern.

“I should have left you to rest.”

 Still fighting to remember, the mage responded, “I will be…I will be all right by the time my friend
awakens. We—we will leave as soon as we can and trouble you no longer.”

 The deity frowned. “Little one, you misunderstand. You are both puzzle and guest to me…and so long
as you remain the former, you will also remain the latter.” Cenarius turned from him, heading toward the
guarding flowers. “I believe that you need sustenance. It shall be provided shortly. Rest well until then.”

 Cenarius did not wait for any protest nor did Krasus bother with one. When a being such as the forest
lord insisted that they stay, Krasus understood that it would beimpossible to argue otherwise. He and
Rhonin were guests for as long as Cenarius desired…which with a demigod might be the rest of their
lives.

Still, that did not worry Krasus so much as the thought that those lives could be very short indeed.

Both Zin-Azshari and the Well had been destroyed in some monstrous catastrophe…and the more the
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




dragon mage pondered it, the more he believed the time of that catastrophe was rapidly approaching.



“I warn you, my darling counselor, I adore surprises, but this one I expect to be quite, quite delicious.”

 Xavius but smiled as he led the queen by the hand into the chamber where the Highborne worked. He
had come to her with as much graciousness as he could command, politely pleading with her to join him
and see what his sorcerers had accomplished. The counselor knew that Azshara expected something
quite miraculous and she would not be disappointed…even if it wasnot what the ruler of the night elves
had in mind.

 The guards knelt as they entered. Although their expressions were the same as always, like Xavius, they,
too, had been touched. Everyone now in the chamber understood, save for Azshara.

For her, it would be only a moment more before the revelation.

She eyed the swirling maelstrom within the pattern, her tone dripping with disappointment. “It looks no
different.”

 “You must see it up close, Light of a Thousand Moons. Then you’ll understand what we have
achieved…”

 Azshara frowned. She had come without her attendants at his request and perhaps she now regretted
that. Nevertheless, Azshara was queen and it behooved her to show that, even alone, she was in
command of any situation.

With graceful strides, Azshara stepped up to the very edge of the pattern. She first eyed the work of the
Highborne currently casting, then deigned to set her gaze upon the inferno within.

“It still strikes me as unchanged, dear Xavius. I expected more from—”

 She let out a gasp and although the counselor could not see her expression completely, he made out
enough to know that Azshara now understood.

And the voice he had heard before, the voice of his god, said for all to hear…

I am coming…


 EIGHT
 The Ritual of the High Moon had been completed and now Tyrande had time for herself. Elune expected
dedication from her priestesses, but she did not demand that they give to her every waking moment. The
Mother Moon was a kind, loving mistress, which had been what first drew the young night elf to her
temple. In joining, Tyrande found some peace to her apprehension, to her inner conflicts.

 But one conflict would not leave her heart. Times had altered matters between her, Malfurion, and
Illidan. They were no longer youthful companions. The simplicities of their childhoods had given way to
the complexities of adult relationships.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Her feelings for both of them had changed and she knew that they, too, felt differently about her. The
competition between the brothers had always been a friendly one, but of late it had intensified in a manner
Tyrande did not appreciate. Now it seemed that they battled each other, as if vying for some prize.

Tyrande understood—even if they did not—thatshe was the prize.

 While the novice priestess felt flattered, she did not want either of them hurt. Yet, Tyrande would be the
one who would hurt at least one brother, for she knew in her heart that when it came time to choose her
life mate, it would be either Illidan or Malfurion.

 Dressed in the silver, hooded gown of a novice priestess, Tyrande hurried silently through the high,
marble halls of the temple. Above her, a magical fresco illustrated the heavens. A casual visitor might
have even thought that no roof stood here, so perfect was the illusion. But only the grand chamber, where
the rituals took place, was truly open to the sky. There, Elune visited in the form of moonbeams,
gloriously touching her faithful as a mother did her beloved children.

 Past the looming, sculpted images of the goddess’s earthly incarnations—those who had served in the
past as high priestess—Tyrande finally strode across the vast marble floor of the foyer. Here, in intricate
mosaic work, the formation of the world by Elune and the other gods was depicted, the Mother Moon of
course illustrated most dominantly. With few exceptions, the gods were vague forms with shadowed
faces, no mere flesh creature worthy of envisioning their true images. Only the demigods, children and
assistants to their superiors, had definite visages. One of those, of course, was Cenarius, said by many to
be perhaps the child of the Moon and the Sun. Cenarius, of course, said nothing one way or another, but
Tyrande liked to think that story the truth.

 Outside, the cool night air soothed her some. Tyrande descended the white alabaster steps and joined
the throngs. Many bowed their heads in deference to her position while others politely made a path for
her. There were advantages to being even an initiate of Elune, but at the moment Tyrande wished that she
could have simply been herself to the world.

 Suramar was not so glorious as Zin-Azshari, but it had a presence all its own. Bright, flashy colors filled
her gaze as she entered the main square, where merchants of all status plied their wares on the
population. Dignitaries in rich, diamond-sequined robes of sun red and fiery orange, their noses upward
and their eyes only on the path ahead, walked alongside low-caste elves in more plain garments of green,
yellow, blue, or some mix of the colors. In the market, everyone made an appearance in order to show
themselves off as best they could.

 Even the buildings acted as displays for their inhabitants, every color of the rainbow represented in the
view Tyrande had. Some businesses had been painted in as many as seven shades and most had
dramatic images splashed across every side. Torchlight illuminated most, the dancing flames considered a
lively accent.

 The few non-night elves whom the novice priestess had met during her short life seemed to find her
people garish, even daring to say that Tyrande’s race must be color-blind. While her own tastes tended
to be more conservative, albeit not so much as Malfurion’s, Tyrande felt that night elves simply
appreciated better the variety of patterns and shades that existed in the world.

 Near the center of the square, she noted a crowd gathered. Most gestured and pointed, some making
comments either of disgust or mockery. Curious, Tyrande went to see what could be of such interest.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 At first, the onlookers did not even notice her presence, certainly a sign that whatever they watched must
be a rare marvel. She politely touched the nearest figure, who upon recognition immediately stepped
aside for her. By this method, she managed to wend her way deep into the throng.

 A cage just slightly shorter than her stood in the midst of it all. Made of good strong iron bars, it
evidently held a beast of some strength, for it rattled harshly and now and then an animalistic growl set the
audience to renewed murmurs.

 Those directly in front of her would not move, not even when they discovered who had tapped them on
the shoulder. Frustrated and curious, the slim night elf shifted position, attempting to see between one
pair.

What she beheld made her gasp.

“What is it?” Tyrande blurted.

 “No one knows, sister,” replied what turned out to be a sentry standing duty. He wore the breast plate
and robes of one of Suramar’s Watch. “The Moon Guard had to spellcast it at least three times to bring
it down.”

 Tyrande instinctively glanced around for one of the hooded, green-robed wizards, but saw none. Likely
they had ensorcelled the cage, then left the secured creature in the hands of the Watch while they went to
discuss what to do with it.

Butwhat had they left?

 It was no dwarf, although in some ways its build reminded her of one. Had it stood straight, it would
have been about a foot shorter than a night elf, but at least twice as broad. Clearly the beast was a
creature of brute strength, for never had she seen such musculature. It amazed Tyrande that even with
spells cast upon the cage the prisoner had not simply bent the bars aside and escaped.

 A high-caste onlooker suddenly prodded the stooped figure with his golden staff…which caused
renewed fury within. The night elf barely pulled his stick out of reach of the thick, meaty paws. The
creature’s squat, round-jawed face contorted as it snarled its anger. It likely would have managed to
snag the staff if not for the thick chains around its wrists, ankles, and neck. The heavy chains were not
only the reason it stayed stooped, but also why it could never deal with the bars, even supposing it had
the strength and resolve.

 From horror and disgust, Tyrande’s emotions shifted to pity. Both the temple and Cenarius had taught
her respect for life, even that which seemed at first only monstrous. The green-hided creature wore
primitive garments, which meant that it—orhe, in most probability—had some semblance of intelligence.
It was not right, then, that he be set up for show like some animal.

Two empty brown bowls indicated that the prisoner had at least been given some sustenance, but from
his massive frame, the novice priestess suspected it was not nearly enough. She turned to the sentry. “He
needs more food and water.”

“I’ve been given no orders for such, sister,” the sentry respectfully replied, his eyes ever on the crowd.

“That shouldn’t require orders.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Tyrande was rewarded with a slight shrug. “The elders haven’t decided what to do with it yet. Maybe
they don’t think it’ll need any more food or drink, sister.”

His suggestion repulsed her. Night elf justice could be very draconian. “If I bring some sustenance for
him, will you attempt to stop me?”

Now the soldier looked uncomfortable. “You really shouldn’t, sister. That beast’s just as liable to tear
your arm off and gnaw on that instead of whatever fare you bring. You would be wise to leave it alone.”

“I shall take my chances.”

“Sister—”

 But before he could try to talk her out of it, Tyrande had already turned away. She headed directly for
the nearest food merchant, seeking a jug of water and a bowl of soup. The creature in the cage looked
fairly carnivorous, so she also decided upon a bit of fresh meat. The proprietor refused to charge her, a
benefit of her calling, so she gave him the blessing she knew he wanted, then thanked him and returned to
the square.

 Apparently already bored, much of the crowd had dissipated by the time Tyrande reached the center.
That, at least, made it easier for her to confront the prisoner. He glanced up as the novice priestess
approached, at first clearly marking her as just one more jaded gawker. Only when he saw what Tyrande
held did he take more interest.

 He sat up as best he could considering to be his chains, deep-set eyes warily watching her under the
thick, bushy brow. Tyrande judged him to be toward the latter half of his life, for his hair had grayed and
his brutish visage bore the many marks and scars of a harsh existence.

 Just beyond what she calculated to be his reach, the young night elf hesitated. Out of the corner of her
eye, Tyrande noted the sentry taking cautious interest in her actions. She understood that he would use
his spear to gut the creature if it made any attempt to harm her. Tyrande hoped it would not come to that.
It would be the most terrible of ironies if her intent to aid a suffering being led to its death.

With grace and care, she knelt before the bars. “Do you understand me?”

He grunted, then finally nodded.

“I’ve brought you something.” She held out the bowl of soup first.

The wary eyes, so different from her own, fixed upon the bowl. She could read the calculation in them.
Once they flickered ever so briefly in the direction of the nearest guard. The right hand closed, then
opened again.

 Slowly, ever so slowly, he stretched forth the hand. As it neared her own, Tyrande saw how huge and
thick it really was, massive enough to envelop both of hers without difficulty. She pictured the strength
inherent in it and almost pulled the offering back.

 Then with a gentleness that surprised her, the prisoner took the bowl from her grasp, placing it securely
in front of him and eyeing her expectantly.

His acceptance made her smile, but he did not respond in kind. Slightly more at ease, Tyrande handed
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




him next the meat, then, lastly, the jug of water.

 When he had all three safely tucked near, the green-skinned behemoth began to eat. He swallowed the
contents of the bowl in one huge gulp, some of the brownish liquid spilling over his jaw. The piece of
meat followed, thick, jagged, yellow teeth ripping away at the raw flesh without hesitation. Tyrande
swallowed, but did not otherwise show her discomfort at the prisoner’s monstrous manners. Under such
conditions, she might have acted little better than he.

 A few onlookers watched this activity as they might have a minstrel act, but Tyrande ignored them. She
waited patiently as he continued to devour his meal. Away went every bit of meat on the bone, which the
creature then broke in two and sucked on the marrow with such gusto that the remainder of the
crowd—their fine sensibilities disturbed by the animalistic sight—finally left.

 As the last of them departed, he suddenly dropped the bone fragments and, with a startling deep
chuckle, reached for the jug. Not once had his eyes strayed from the novice priestess for more than a
second.

When the water was gone, he wiped his wide mouth with his arm and grunted, “Good.”

To hear an actual word startled Tyrande even though she had assumed earlier that if he understood, then
he could also speak. It made her smile again and even risk leaning against the bars, an act that at first
brought anxiety to the sentries.

“Sister!” cried one of the guards. “You shouldn’t be so near! He’ll tear—”

“He’ll do nothing,” she quickly assured them. Glancing at the creature, she added, “Will you?”

 He shook his head and drew his hands close to his chest as a sign. The sentries backed away, but
remained watchful.

Ignoring them once more, Tyrande asked, “Do you want anything else? More food?”

“No.”

She paused, then said, “My name is Tyrande. I am a priestess of Elune, the Mother Moon.”

The figure in the cage seemed disinclined to continue the conversation, but when he saw that she was
determined to wait him out, he finally responded, “Brox…Broxigar. Sworn servant to the Warchief
Thrall, ruler of the orcs.”

 Tyrande tried to make sense of what he had said. That he was a warrior was obvious by his
appearance. He served some leader, this Thrall. A name in some ways more curious than his own, for
she understood its meaning and therefore understood the contrary nature of a ruler so titled.

 And this Thrall was lord of the orcs, which Tyrande assumed must be what Brox was. The teachings of
the temple were thorough, but never had she heard there or anywhere else of a race called the orcs.
Certainly, if they were all like Brox, they would have been well remembered by the night elves.

She decided to delve deeper. “Where are you from, Brox? How did you get here?”

Immediately Tyrande realized that she had erred. The orc’s eyes narrowed and he clamped his mouth
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




shut. How foolish of her not to think that the Moon Guard had already questioned him…and without the
courtesy that she had shown so far. Now he must have thought that she had been sent to learn by
kindness what they had failed to gain by force and magic.

Clearly desiring an end to their meeting, Brox picked up the bowl and held it toward her, his expression
dark and un-trusting.

Without warning, a flash of energy coursed into the cage from behind the novice, striking the orc’s hand.

 With a savage snarl, Brox seized his burnt fingers, holding them tight. He glared at Tyrande with such a
murderous gaze that she could not help but rise and step back. The sentries immediately focused on the
cage, their spears keeping Brox pinned to the back bars.

Strong hands seized her by the shoulders and a voice she knew well anxiously whispered, “Are you safe,
Tyrande? That foul beast didn’t hurt you, did he?”

 “He had no plans to do me any harm!” she blurted, turning to face her supposed rescuer. “Illidan! How
could you?”

 The handsome night elf frowned, his arresting golden eyes losing some of their light. “I was only fearful
for you! That beast is capable of—”

Tyrande cut him off. “In there, he is capable of very little…and he is no beast!”

 “No?” Illidan leaned down to inspect Brox. The orc bared his teeth but did nothing that might otherwise
antagonize the night elf. Malfurion’s brother snorted in disdain. “Looks like no civilized creature to me…”

 “He was merely trying to hand back the bowl. And if there had been any trouble, the guards were
already standing by.”

 Illidan frowned. “I’m sorry, Tyrande. Maybe I overreacted. You must admit, though, that few others,
even among your calling, would have taken the terrible risk you did! You might not know this, but they
say that when he woke up, he almost throttled one of the Moon Guard!”

The novice priestess glanced at the stone-faced sentry, who reluctantly nodded. He had forgotten to
mention that little tidbit to her. Still, Tyrande doubted it would have made a difference. Brox had been
mistreated and she had felt the need to come to his aid.

 “I appreciate your concern, Illidan, but again I tell you that I wasn’t in any danger.” Her gaze narrowed
as she took in the orc’s injury. The fingers were blackened and the pain in Brox’s eyes was obvious, yet
the orc did not cry out nor did he ask for any healing.

Abandoning Illidan, Tyrande knelt again by the cage. Without hesitation, she reached through the bars.

Illidan reached for her. “Tyrande!”

 “Stay back! All of you!” Meeting the orc’s baleful gaze, she whispered, “I know you didn’t mean me
any harm. I can mend that for you. Please. Just let me.”

 Brox growled, but in a manner that made her think he was not angry but simply weighing his options.
Illidan still stood next to Tyrande, who realized that he would strike the orc again at the slightest hint of
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




something gone awry.

“Illidan…I’m going to have to ask you to turn away for a moment.”

“What? Tyrande—”

“For me, Illidan.”

She could sense his pent-up fury. Nevertheless, he obeyed her request, spinning around and facing one
of the buildings surrounding the square.

 Tyrande eyed Brox again. His gaze had shifted to Illidan and for the briefest moment she read the
satisfaction in them. Then the orc focused on her and gingerly offered up the maimed hand.

 Taking it in her own, she studied the wound in shock. The flesh had been burned away in places on two
fingers and a third was red and festering.

“What did you do to him?” she asked Illidan.

“Something I learned recently,” was all he would say.

It had certainly not been something he had learned in the forest of Cenarius. This was an example of high
night elven sorcery, a spell he had cast with scant concentration. It revealed how skilled Malfurion’s
brother could be when the subject excited him. He clearly enjoyed the manipulation of sorcery over that
of the more slow-paced druidism.

Tyrande was not so certain she liked his choice.

 “Mother Moon, hear my entreaties…” Ignoring the aghast expressions of the guards, she took the orc’s
fingers and kissed each ever so gently. Tyrande then whispered to Elune, asking the goddess to grant her
the ability to ease Brox’s burden, to render whole what Illidan had, in his rashness, ruined.

“Stretch your hand out as far as you can,” she ordered the prisoner.

Watching the sentries, Brox moved forward, straining to thrust his brutish hand beyond the bars.
Tyrande expected some sort of magical resistance, but nothing happened. She supposed that since the
orc had done nothing to escape, the cage’s spellwork had not reacted.

The novice priestess looked up into the sky, where the moon hovered just above. “Mother Moon…fill
me with your purity, your grace, your love…grant me the power to heal this…”

 As Tyrande repeated her plea, she heard a gasp from one of the guards. Illidan started to turn, but then
evidently thought better than to possibly upset Tyrande further.

A stream of silver light…Elune’s light…encompassed the young priestess. Tyrande radiated as if she
were the Moon herself. She felt the glory of the goddess become a part of her.

Brox almost pulled away, startled by the wondrous display. To his credit, though, he placed his trust in
her, letting her draw his hand as best she could into the glow.

And as the moonlight touched his fingers, the burnt flesh healed, the gaps where bone showed through
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




regrew, and the horrific injury that Illidan had caused utterlyvanished.

It took but a few scant seconds to complete the task. The orc remained still, eyes as wide as a child’s.

“Thank you, Mother Moon,” Tyrande whispered, releasing Brox’s hand.

 The sentries each fell to one knee, bowing their heads to the acolyte. The orc drew his hand close,
staring at each finger and waggling them in astonishment. He touched the skin, first tenderly, then with
immense satisfaction when no pain jarred him. A grunt of pleasure escaped the brutish figure.

 Brox suddenly began contorting his body in the cage. Tyrande feared that he had suffered some other
injury only now revealed, but then the orc finished moving.

“I honor you, shaman,” he uttered, now prostrating himself as best as his bonds allowed. “I am in your
debt.”

 So deep was Brox’s gratitude that Tyrande felt her cheeks darken in embarrassment. She rose and took
a step back.

Illidan immediately turned and held her arm as if to steady her. “Are you all right?”

 “I am…it…” How to explain what she felt when touched by Elune? “It is done,” she finished, unable to
respond properly.

 The guards finally rose, their respect for her magnified. The foremost one reverently approached her.
“Sister, might I have your blessing?”

 “Of course!” The blessings of Elune were given freely, for the teachings of Mother Moon said that the
more who were touched by her, the more who would understand the love and unity she represented and
spread that understanding to others.

 With her open palm, Tyrande touched each sentry on the heart, then the forehead, indicating the
symbolic unity of thought and spirit. Each thanked her profusely.

Illidan took her arm again. “You need some recuperation, Tyrande. Come! I know a place—”

From the cage came Brox’s gruff voice. “Shaman, may this lowly one, too, have your blessing?”

 The guards started, but said nothing. If even a beast so politely requested a blessing by one of Elune’s
chosen, how could they argue?

They could not, but Illidan could. “You’ve done enough for that creature. You’re practically wavering!
Come—”

 But she would not deny the orc. Pulling free from Illidan’s grasp, Tyrande knelt again before Brox. She
reached in without hesitation, touching the coarse, hairy hide and hard, deep-browed head.

“May Elune watch over you and yours…” the novice priestess whispered.

“May your ax arm be strong,” he returned.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




His peculiar response made her frown, but then she recalled what sort of life he must have lived. His
wish for her was, in its own odd way, a wish for life and health.

“Thank you,” she responded, smiling.

As Tyrande rose, Illidan once more interjected himself into the situation. “Now can we—”

 All at once she felt weary. It was a good weariness, though, as if Tyrande had worked long and hard for
her mistress and accomplished much in her name. She recalled suddenly how long it had been since she
had slept. More than a day. Certainly the wisdom of Mother Moon dictated that she return to the temple
and go to her bed.

“Please forgive me, Illidan,” Tyrande murmured. “I find myself tired. I would like to return to my sisters.
You understand, don’t you?”

His eyes narrowed momentarily, then calmed. “Yes, that would probably be best. Shall I escort you
back?”

“There’s no need. I’d like to walk alone, anyway.”

Illidan said nothing, only bowing slightly in deference to her decision.

She gave Brox one last smile. The orc nodded. Tyrande departed, feeling oddly refreshed in her mind
despite her physical exhaustion. When it was possible, she would speak with the high priestess about
Brox. Surely the temple would be able to do something for the outcast.

 Moonlight shone on the novice priestess as she walked. More and more Tyrande felt as if she had
experienced something this night that would forever change her. Surely her interaction with the orc had
been the design of Elune.

She could hardly wait to talk to the high priestess…



 Illidan watched Tyrande walk away without so much as a second glance at him. He knew her mind well
enough to understand that she still dwelled in the moment of her service for her goddess. That drowned
out any other influence, including him.

 “Tyrande…” He had hoped to speak with her of his feelings, but that chance had been ruined. Illidan
had waited for hours, watching the temple surreptitiously for her appearance. Knowing that it would not
look good for him if he joined her the moment she stepped out, he had waited in the background, intent
on pretending to just happen by.

 Then she had discovered the creature the Moon Guard had captured and all his well-thought plans went
awry. Now, not only had he lost his opportunity, but he had embarrassed himself in front of her, been
made to look the villain…and all because of athing like that!

Before he could stop himself, words tumbled silently out of his mouth and his right hand flexed tightly.

There was a shout from the direction of the cage. He quickly glanced toward it.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The cage flared brightly, but not with the silver light of the moon. Instead, a furious red aura surrounded
the cell, as if trying to devour it…and its occupant.

The foul creature inside roared in obvious pain. The guards, meanwhile, moved about in clear confusion.

Illidan quickly muttered the counter words.

The aura faded away. The prisoner ceased his cries.

 With no one watching him, the young night elf swiftly vanished from the scene. He had let his anger get
the best of him and lashed out at the most obvious target. Illidan was grateful that the guards had not
realized the truth, and that Tyrande had already left the square, missing his moment of rage.

 He was also thankful for those of the Moon Guard who had cast the magical barriers surrounding the
cage…for it was only those protective spells that had prevented the creature inside from beingslain.


 NINE
They were dying all around him.

 Everywhere he looked, Brox saw his comrades dying. Garno, with whom he had grown up, who was
practically a brother, fell next, his body hacked to pieces by the screaming blade of a towering, fiery form
with a hellish, horned face full of jagged teeth. The demon itself was slain moments later by Brox, who
leapt upon it and, with a cry that made even the fearsome creature hesitate, cleaved Garno’s killer in two
despite its blazing armor.

But the Legion kept coming and the orcs grew fewer. Barely a handful of defenders remained, yet every
minute another perished in the onslaught.

Thrall had commanded that the way be blocked, that the Legion would not break through. Help was
being gathered, but the Horde needed time. They needed Brox and his fellows.

But there were fewer and fewer. Duun suddenly dropped, his head bouncing along the blood-soaked
ground several seconds before his torso collapsed in a heap. Fezhar already lay dead, his remains all but
unrecognizable. He had been enveloped in a wave of unnatural green flame belched by one of the
demons, flame that had not so much burnt his body, butdissolved it.

 Again and again, Brox’s sturdy ax laid waste to his horrific foes, never seemingly the same kind of
creature twice. Yet, whenever he wiped the sweat from his brow and stared ahead, all he saw were
more.

And more, and more…

Now, only he stood against them. Stood against a shrieking, hungry sea of monsters hell-bent on the
destruction of everything.

And as they fell upon the lone survivor—Brox awoke.

The orc shivered in his cage, but not from cold. After more than a thousand repetitions, he would have
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




thought himself immune to the terrors his subconscious resurrected. Yet, each time the nightmares came,
they did so with new intensity, new pain.

New guilt.

 Brox should have died then. He should have died with his comrades. They had given the ultimate
sacrifice for the Horde, but he had survived, had lived on. It was not right.

I am a coward…he thought once more.If I had fought harder, I’d be with them.

 But even though he had told this to Thrall, the Warchief had shook his head and said, “No one fought
harder, my old friend. The scars are there, the scouts saw you battle as they approached. You did your
comrades, your people, as good a service as those who perished…”

Brox had accepted Thrall’s gratitude, but never the Horde leader’s words.

 Now here he was, penned up like a pig waiting to be slaughtered for these arrogant creatures. They
stared at him as if he had grown two heads and marveled at his ugliness. Only the young female, the
shaman, had shown him respect and care.

 In her he sensed the power that his own people talked about, the old way of magic. She had healed the
fiery wound that her friend had caused him with but a prayer to the moon. Truly she was gifted and Brox
felt honored that he had been given her blessing.

 Not that it would matter in the long run. The orc had no doubt that his captors would soon decide how
to execute him. What they had learned from him so far would avail them nothing. He had refused to give
them any definitive information concerning his people, especially their location. True, he did not quite
know himself how to reach his home, but it was better to assume that anything said concerning that might
be hint enough for the night elves. Unlike those night elves who had allied themselves with the orcs, these
had only contempt for outsiders…and thus were a threat to the Horde.

Brox rolled over as best as his bonds allowed. Another night and he would likely be dead, but not in the
manner of his choosing. There would be no glorious battle, no epic song by which to remember him…

“Great spirits,” he muttered. “Hear this unworthy one. Grant me one last struggle, one last cause. Let me
be worthy…”

Brox stared at the sky, continuing to pray silently. But unlike the young priestess, he doubted that
whatever powers watched over the world would listen to a lowly creature such as him.

His fate was in the night elves’ hands.



What brought Malfurion into Suramar, he could not quite say. For three nights he had sat alone in his
home, meditating on all Cenarius had told him, on all he himself had witnessed in the Emerald Dream.
Three nights and no answers to his growing concerns. He had no doubts that the spellwork continued in
Zin-Azshari and that the situation would only grow more desperate the longer no one acted.

But no one else even seemed tonotice any problem.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Perhaps, Malfurion finally decided, he had journeyed to Suramar simply to find some other voice, some
other mind, with which to discuss his inner dilemma. For that he had chosen to seek out Tyrande, though,
not his twin. She gave more care to her thoughts, whereas Illidan had a tendency to leap into action
regardless of whether or not he had hatched any plan.

Yes, Tyrande would be good to talk with…and just to see.

Yet, as he headed in the direction of the temple of Elune, a large contingent of riders suddenly bore
down from the other direction. Edging to the side of the street, Malfurion watched as several soldiers in
gray-green armor rushed by on their sleek, well-groomed panthers. Held high near the front of the party
was a square banner of rich purple with a black avian form at the center.

The banner of Lord Kur’talos Ravencrest.

 The elven commander rode at the forefront, his mount larger, sleeker, and clearly the dominant female of
the pack. Ravencrest himself was tall, lanky, and quite regal. He rode as if nothing would deter him from
his duty, whatever that might be. A billowing cloak of gold trailed behind him and his high, red-crested
helm was marked by the very symbol of his name.

 Avian also best described his features, long, narrow, his nose a downward beak. His tufted beard and
stern eyes gave him an appearance of both wisdom and might. Outside of the Highborne, Ravencrest
was considered one of those with the most influence with the queen, who in the past had often taken his
counsel.

 Malfurion cursed himself for not having thought of Ravencrest before, but now was not a good
opportunity to speak with the noble. Ravencrest and his elite guard rode along as if on some mission of
tremendous urgency, which made Malfurion immediately wonder if his fears about Zin-Azshari had
already materialized. Yet, if that had been the case, he doubted that the rest of the city would have
remained so calm; the forces at play near the capital surely presaged a disaster of monumental
proportions, quickly affecting even Suramar.

 As the riders vanished, Malfurion moved on. So many people clustered into one area made the young
night elf feel a bit claustrophobic after his lengthy period in the forest. Still, Malfurion fought down the
sensation, knowing that soon he would see Tyrande. As anxious as she made him feel of late, she also
calmed his spirit more than anything else could, even his meditations.

He knew he would have to see his brother, too, but the idea did not appeal to him so much this night. It
was Tyrande he wanted to see, with whom he wanted to spend some time. Illidan would still be there for
him later.

 Vaguely Malfurion noted a number of people crowded around something in the square, but his desire to
see Tyrande made him quickly ignore the scene. He hoped that she would be readily available and that
he would not have to go asking one acolyte after another. While the initiates of Elune were not bothered
by friends and relatives desiring to speak with one of them, for some reason Malfurion felt more anxious
about it than usual. It had little to do with his concerns about Zin-Azshari, either, and more to do with the
odd discomfort he now felt whenever he was near his childhood friend.

 As he entered the temple, a pair of guards surveyed him. Instead of robes, they wore gleaming, silver
breast plates and kilts, the former marked by a crescent moon design at the center. Like all of Elune’s
initiates, they were females and well versed in the arts of defense and battle. Tyrande herself was a better
archer than either Malfurion or Illidan. The peaceful teachings of the Mother Moon did not preclude her
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




most loyal children learning to protect themselves.

 “May we help you, brother?” the foremost guard asked politely. She and the other stood at attention,
their spears ready to turn on him at a moment’s warning.

“I come seeking the novice priestess, Tyrande. She and I are good friends. My name is—”

 “Malfurion Stormrage,” finished the second, nearer to his age. She smiled. “Tyrande shares novice
chambers with myself and two others. I have seen you with her on occasion.”

“Is it possible to speak with her?”

“If she is finished with her meditation, then she should be free this hour. I will have someone ask. You
may wait in the Chamber of the Moon.”

The Chamber of the Moon was the official title of the roofless center of the temple, where many of the
great rituals took place. When not in use by the high priestess, the temple encouraged everyone to make
use of its tranquil environment.

 Malfurion felt the touch of the Mother Moon the moment he entered the rectangular chamber. A garden
of night-blooming flowers bordered the room and in the center stood a small dais where the high
priestess spoke. The circular stone path leading to the dais was a mosaic pattern outlining the yearly
cycles of the moon. Malfurion had noted from his past few visits that no matter where the moon floated in
the heavens, its soft light completely illuminated the chamber.

 He strode to the center and sat on one of the stone benches used by initiates and faithful. Although eased
much by his surroundings, Malfurion’s patience quickly deteriorated as he waited for Tyrande. He also
worried that she might be displeased by his sudden appearance. In the past, they had always met only
after making prior arrangements. This was the first time that he had been so bold as to intrude without
warning into her world.

“Malfurion…”

 For a moment, all his concerns vanished as he looked up and saw Tyrande step into the moonlight. Her
silver robes took on a mystical glow and in his eyes the Mother Moon could have looked no more
glorious a sight. Tyrande’s hair hung loose, draping her exquisite face and ending just above her
decolletage. The nighttime illumination emphasized her eyes and when the novice priestess smiled, she
herself seemed to light up the Chamber of the Moon.

 As Tyrande walked toward him, Malfurion belatedly rose to meet her. He was certain that his cheeks
flushed, but there was nothing he could do about it save hope that Tyrande did not notice.

“Is all well with you?” the novice asked with sudden concern. “Has something happened?”

“I’m fine. I hope I haven’t intruded.”

Her smile returned, more arresting than ever. “You could never intrude upon me, Malfurion. In fact, I’m
very glad you’ve come. I wanted to see you, too.”

If she had not noticed his darkening cheeks before, she certainly had to now. Nevertheless, Malfurion
pressed on. “Tyrande, can we take a walk outside the temple?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“If that makes you more comfortable, yes.”

As they departed the chamber, he began, “You know how I said I’ve had some reoccurring dreams…”

“I remember.”

“I spoke with Cenarius about them after you and Illidan departed and we took measures to try to
understand why they keep repeating.”

Her tone grew concerned. “And did you discover anything?”

 Malfurion nodded but held his tongue as they passed the two sentries and exited the temple. Not until
the pair had started down the outer steps did he continue.

 “I’ve progressed, Tyrande. Progressed far more than either you or Illidan realized. Cenarius showed me
a path into the world of the mind itself…the Emerald Dream, he called it. But it was more than that.
Through it…through it I was able to see the real world as I never had before…”

Tyrande’s gaze shifted to the small crowd near the center of the square. “And what did you see?”

He turned Tyrande to face him, needing her to understand utterly what he had discovered. “I saw
Zin-Azshari…and the Well over which it looks.”

 Leaving nothing out, Malfurion described the scene and the unsettling sensations he had experienced. He
described his attempts to understand the truth and how his dream self had been repulsed after attempting
to see exactly what had transpired with the Highborne and the queen.

Tyrande stared wordlessly at him, clearly as stunned as he had been by his ominous discovery. Finding
her voice, she asked, “The queen? Azshara? Can you be certain?”

“Not entirely. I never actually saw much inside, but I can’t imagine how such madness could go on
without her knowledge. True, Lord Xavius has great influence over her, but even she would never stand
by blindly. I have to think that she knows the risks they take…but I don’t think any of them understand
how terrible those risks are! The Well…if you could have felt what I had when I walked the Emerald
Dream, Tyrande, you would’ve feared as much as I did.”

 She put a hand on his arm in an attempt to comfort him. “I don’t question you, Malfurion, but we need
to know more! To claim that Azshara would put her subjects in danger…you have to tread lightly on
this.”

“I thought to approach Lord Ravencrest on the subject. He, too, has influence with her.”

“That might be wise…” Again her eyes moved to the center of the square.

 Malfurion almost said something, but instead followed her gaze, wondering what could constantly drag
her attention from his revelations. Most of those who had gathered had wandered away, finally revealing
to him what he had paid no mind to earlier.

A guarded cage…and in it some creature not at all like a night elf.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“What is that?” he asked with a growing frown.

 “What I wanted to talk withyou about, Malfurion. His name is Broxigar…and he’s unlike any being I’ve
ever heard or seen. I know your tale is important, but I want you to meet him now, as a favor for me.”

 As Tyrande led him over, Malfurion noticed the guards become alert. To his surprise, after a moment of
staring at his companion, they suddenly fell to one knee in homage.

“Welcome again, sister,” uttered one. “You honor us with your presence.”

 Tyrande was clearly embarrassed by such respect. “Please! Please rise!” When they had obeyed, she
asked, “What news on him?”

 “Lord Ravencrest has assumed control of the situation,” answered another guard. “Even now he is out
inspecting the location of the capture in search of more evidence and possible incursions, but when he
returns, it’s said that he intends to interrogate the prisoner personally. That means that by tomorrow, it’s
likely the creature will be transported to the cells of Black Rook Hold.” Black Rook Hold was the walled
domain of Lord Ravencrest, a veritable fortress.

 That the guard was so free with his information surprised Malfurion until he realized how awed the
soldier was by Tyrande. True, she was an initiate of Elune, but something must have happened that made
her of particular importance to these soldiers.

Tyrande looked perturbed by the revelation. “This interrogation…what will it entail?”

The guard could no longer look at her directly. “It entails whatever satisfies Lord Ravencrest, sister.”

 The priestess did not press further. Her hand, which had lightly rested on Malfurion’s arm, momentarily
squeezed tight.

“May we speak with him?”

“For only a moment, sister, but I must ask you to speak so that we can hear you. You understand.”

“I do.” Tyrande led Malfurion to the cell, where they both knelt.

 Malfurion bit back a gasp of astonishment. Up close, the hulking figure inside truly amazed him. He had
learned of many strange and unusual creatures during his time with Cenarius, but never had he been
taught of such a being as this.

“Shaman…” it—he—muttered in a deep, rumbling…andpained voice.

Tyrande leaned closer, obviously concerned. “Broxigar…are you ill?”

“No, shaman…just remembering.” He did not explain further.

“Broxigar, I’ve brought a friend with me. I’d like you to meet him. His name is Malfurion.”

“If he’s your friend, shaman, I’m honored.”

Shifting nearer, Malfurion forced a smile. “Hello, Broxigar.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Broxigar is an orc, Malfurion.”

He nodded. “I’ve never heard of an orc before.”

 The chained figure snorted. “I know of night elves. You fought beside us against the Legion…but
alliances fade in peace, it seems.”

His words made no sense, yet they stirred within Malfurion a new anxiety. “How—how did you come to
be here, Broxigar?”

 “The shaman may call me Broxigar. To you…only Brox.” He exhaled, then stared intently at Tyrande.
“Shaman…you asked about me the last time and I wouldn’t tell. I owe you, though. Now I tell you what
I told these…” Brox made a derogatory gesture toward the nearby guards. “…and their masters, but
you’ll believe me no more than they did…”

 The orc’s tale began fantastic and grew even more so with each breath. He was careful not to speak of
his people or where they lived, only that at the command of his Warchief, he and another had journeyed
to the mountains to investigate an unsettling rumor. There they had found what the orc could only
describe as ahole in the world…a hole that swallowed all matter as it moved relentlessly along.

It had swallowed Brox…and ripped his companion apart.

 And Malfurion, listening, began to relive his own sense of dread. Each new revelation by the orc fueled
that dread and more than once the night elf found himself thinking of the Well of Eternity and the power
drawn from it by the Highborne. Certainly the magic of the Well could create such a horrific vortex…

But it could not be!Malfurion insisted to himself.Surely, this could have nothing to do with Zin-Azshari!
They aren’t that mad!

Arethey?

 But as Brox continued, as he spoke of the vortex and the things he had seen and heard as he tumbled
through it, it be came harder and harder for Malfurion to deny the possibility ofsome link. Worse, without
knowing how it struck the night elf, the orc’s expression mirrored what Malfurion had felt when his astral
self had floated above the palace and the Well.

“A wrongness,” the orc said. “A thing that should not be,” he added at another stage. These and other
descriptions struck Malfurion like well-honed daggers…

 He did not even realize when Brox’s tale ended, his mind swept up by the truth of it all. Tyrande had to
squeeze his arm to regain his attention.

“Are you all right, Malfurion? You look as if chilled…”

“I—I’m fine.” To Brox, he asked, “You told this—this story—to Lord Ravencrest?”

 The orc looked uncertain, but the guard responded, “Aye, that’s what he told, almost word for word!”
The soldier gave a harsh bark of a laugh. “And Lord Ravencrest believed it as little as you now! Come
the morrow, he’ll pull the truth from this beast…and if he has friends nearby, they’ll find us not so
tempting a target, eh?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 So an invasion by orcs was all that Ravencrest suspected. Malfurion felt disappointed. He doubted that
the elven commander would see the possible link between his encounter and Brox’s tale. In fact, the
more he thought of it, the more Malfurion doubted Ravencrest would believe him at all. Here Malfurion
was, ready to tell the noble that their beloved queen might be involved in reckless spellwork with the
potential to bring disaster upon her people. The young night elf barely believed it himself.

If only he had more proof.

The guard began shifting anxiously. “Sister…I’m afraid I must ask you and your companion to depart
now. Our captain will be coming shortly. I really shouldn’t have—”

“Quite all right. I understand.”

 As they started to rise, Brox moved to the front of the cell, one hand reaching toward Tyrande.
“Shaman…one last blessing, if you could grant it.”

“Of course…”

As she knelt again, Malfurion desperately pondered what he should do. Properly, any suspicions should
have been reported to Lord Ravencrest, but somehow that seemed a futile act.

If only he could consult with Cenarius, but by then the orc might be—

Cenarius…

Malfurion glanced at Tyrande and Brox, a fateful decision coming to mind.

Bidding the orc farewell, Tyrande rose again. Malfurion took her by the arm and the two thanked the
guard for their time. The young priestess’s expression grew perturbed as they left, but Malfurion said
nothing, his own thoughts still racing.

“There must be something that can be done,” she finally whispered.

“What do you mean?”

 “Tomorrow they will take him to Black Rook Hold. Once in there, he—” Tyrande faltered. “I’ve every
respect for Lord Ravencrest, but…”

Malfurion only nodded.

“I spoke with Mother Dejahna, the high priestess, but she says there is nothing we can do but pray for
his spirit. She commended me for my sympathy, but suggested I let matters take their course.”

 “Let them take their course…” Malfurion muttered, staring ahead. He gritted his teeth. It had to be done
now. There could be no turning back, not if his fears had any merit. “Turn here,” he suddenly
commanded, steering her down a side avenue. “We need to see Illidan.”

“Illidan? But why?”

Taking a deep breath and thinking of the orc and the Well, Malfurion simply replied, “Because we’re
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




going to let matters take their own course…with our guidance, that is.”

***

Xavius stood before the fiery sphere, staring into the gaping hole in its midst in rapt attention. Deep,
deep within, the eyes of his god stared back and the two communed.

 I have heard your pleas…he said to the counselor.And know your dreams…a world cleansed of the
impure, the imperfect. I would grant your desire, you the first among my faithful…

 His gaze never wavering, Xavius knelt. The other Highborne continued working their sorcery, trying to
expand upon what they had created.

 “You will come to us, then?” the night elf responded, artificial eyes flaring in anticipation. “You will come
to our world and make it so?”

 The way is not yet open…it must be strengthened…for it must be able to withstand my glorious
entrance…

The counselor nodded his understanding. So magnificent, so powerful a force as the god would be too
much for the night elves’ feeble portal to accept. The god’s sheer presence would rip it asunder. It had to
be made larger, stronger, and more permanent.

That his supposed deity could not perform this task himself, Xavius did not question. He was too caught
up in the wonder of his new master.

 “What can be done?” he pleaded. Try as they might, the Highborne sorcerers had reached the limits of
their knowledge and skills, Xavius included.

I will send one of my lesser host to guide you…he may passthrough to your world…with effort…but
you must prepare yourselves for his coming…

Almost leaping to his feet, the night elven lord commanded, “Let no one stumble in his efforts! We are to
be blessed with the presence of one of his favored!”

 The Highborne redoubled their efforts, the chamber crackling with raw, fearsome energy drawn directly
from the Well. Outside, the skies roared furiously and anyone looking upon the great black lake itself
would have turned their gaze away in fear.

 The fireball within the pattern swelled, the gap in the center opening like a wide, savage mouth. What
sounded like a million voices wailing filled the chamber, music to Xavius’s ears.

But then one of the Highborne faltered. Fearing the worst, Xavius pushed himself into the circle, adding
his own might and skill to the effort. He would not fail his god! He would not!

 Yet, at first it seemed he and the rest would. The portal strained but did not grow. Xavius concentrated
the full force of his determination upon it, finally forcing the gap wider.

 And then…a wondrous, blinding light forced the assembled Highborneback. Despite their astonishment,
though, they somehow kept up their efforts.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 From deep within, an odd-looking form coalesced. At first it stood no more than a few inches tall, but as
it swiftly moved toward them, it grew…and grew…andgrew …

 The strain took its toll on more of the spellcasters. Two collapsed, one barely breathing. The others
teetered, yet, once again, under Xavius’s manic control, they regained power over the portal.

Suddenly, the eerie cries of hounds shook them all. Only the counselor, with his eyes unnatural, saw
what first emerged from the gateway.

 The beasts were the size of horses and had low-set horns that curled down and forward. Their scaly
hides were colored a deathly crimson accented by savage splatterings of black and on their backs
fluttered a crest of wild, shaggy brown fur. They were lean but muscular hunters, each three-toed paw
ending in sharp claws more than half a foot long. Each creature had back legs slightly shorter than the
front, but Xavius had no doubt as to the beasts’ speed and agility. Even their slightest movements
suggested hunters well skilled in bringing down their prey.

 Atop their backs thrust two long, whiplike, leathery tentacles that ended in tiny sucker mouths. The
tentacles swayed back and forth, seeming to focus with eagerness on the assembled sorcerers.

 The face most resembled some peculiar cross between a wolf and a reptile. From the long, savage jaws
jutted scores of tall, sharp teeth. The eyes were narrow and completely white, but filled with a sinister
cunning that implied these were no mere animals.

Then, from behind them stepped the towering figure of their master.

 He wore body armor of molten steel and in his huge, gauntleted hand he wielded a whip that flashed
lightning whenever used. His chest and shoulders, so much wider than the rest of his torso, dwarfed those
of even the mightiest warrior. Wherever the armor did not hide his form, pure flame radiated from his
scaled, fleshless, andunearthly body.

 Set deep in the broad shoulders, the flaming visage peered down at the night elves. That it most
resembled a brooding skull with huge, curled horns did nothing to dissuade the Highborne that here was a
heavenly messenger sent to aid them in their dream of a perfect paradise.

“Know that I am the servant of your god…” he hissed, the flames that were his eyes flashing hot
whenever he spoke. “Come to help you open the way for his host and his mostglorious self!”

 One of the beasts howled, but a snap of the whip sent lightning crackling over the creature, instantly
silencing it.

“I am the Houndmaster…” the massive, skeletal knight continued, fiery gaze fixing most upon the
kneeling counselor. “I amHakkar…”


 TEN
At last, Rhonin awoke.

He did so with reluctance, for throughout his magical slumber, his mind had been filled with dreams.
Most of those dreams had revolved around Vereesa and the coming twins, but, unlike the sinister keep,
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




these were happy visions of a life he once thought to have.

Waking up only served to remind him that he might not live to see his family.

 Rhonin opened his eyes to one familiar, if not so welcome, sight. Krasus leaned over him, mild concern
in his expression. That only aggravated the human, for, in his mind, it was the dragon mage’s fault that he
was here.

 At first, Rhonin wondered why his eyesight seemed a bit dim, but then he realized that he looked at
Krasus not in the light of the sun, but rather by a very full moon. The moon illuminated the glade with an
intensity that was not at all natural.

Curiosity growing, he started to rise…only to have his body scream from stiffness.

“Slowly, Rhonin. You have slept more than a day. Your body needs a minute or two to join you in
waking.”

“Where—?” The young wizard peered around. “I remember this glade…being carried toward it…”

 “We have been the guests of its master since our arrival. We are not in any danger, Rhonin, but I must
tell you immediately that we are also unable to depart.”

Sitting up, Rhonin gazed at the area. He sensed some presence around them, but nothing that hinted they
were trapped here. Still, he had never known Krasus to invent stories.

“What happens if we try to leave?”

His companion pointed at the rows of flowers. “They will stop us.”

“They? The plants?”

“You may trust me on this, Rhonin.”

 While a part of him was tempted to see exactly what the flowers would do, Rhonin chose not to take
any chances. Krasus said that they were not in any danger so long as they stayed where they were.
However, now that both of them were conscious, perhaps they could devise some manner of escape.

His stomach rumbled. Rhonin recalled that he had slept a day and more without eating.

 Before he could comment, Krasus handed him a bowl of fruit and a jug of water. The human devoured
the fruit quickly and, although it did not satiate his hunger completely, at least his stomach no longer
disturbed him.

 “Our host has not delivered any sustenance since early in the day. I expect him shortly…especially as he
likely already knows that you are awake.”

“He does?” Not something Rhonin liked hearing. Their captor sounded too much in control. “Who is
he?”

Krasus suddenly looked uncomfortable. “His name is Cenarius. Do you recall it?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Cenarius…it struck a chord, albeit barely. Cenarius. Something from his studies, but not directly tied to
magic. The name made him think of stories, myths, of a—

A woodlandgod?

Rhonin’s gaze narrowed. “We’re the guests of a forest deity?”

“A demigod, to be exact…which still makes him a force that even my kind respect.”

“Cenarius…”

“You speak of me and I am here!” chortled a voice from everywhere. “I bid you welcome, one called
Rhonin!”

 Coalescing from the moonlight itself, a huge, inhuman figure half elf, half stag stepped forward. He
towered even over the tall, lanky Krasus. Rhonin stared openly in awe at the antlers, the bearded visage,
and the unsettling body.

“You slept long, young one, so I doubt that the food brought earlier was sufficient for your hunger.” He
gestured behind them. “There is more for the two of you now.”

 Rhonin glanced over his shoulder. Where the emptied bowl of fruit had sat there now stood another, this
one filled high. In addition, a thick piece of meat, cooked just to the wizard’s liking if the aroma indicated
anything, lay on a wooden platter next to the bowl. Rhonin had no doubt that the jug had also been
refilled.

“I thank you,” he began, trying not to be distracted by the nearby meal. “But what I really wanted to do
was ask—”

“The time for questions will be coming. For now, I’d be remiss if you did not eat.”

 Krasus took Rhonin by the arm. With a nod of his head, the wizard joined his former mentor and the
pair ate their fill. Rhonin hesitated at first when it came to the meat, not because he did not want it, but
because it surprised him that a forest dweller such as Cenarius would sacrifice a creature under his care
for two strangers.

 The demigod read his curiosity. “Each animal, each being, serves many purposes. They are all part of the
cycle of the forest. That includes the necessity of food. You are like the bear or wolf, both of whom hunt
freely in my domain. Nothing is wasted here. Everything returns to feed new growth. The deer upon
which you now feed will be reborn to serve its role again, its sacrifice forgotten to it.”

 Rhonin frowned, not quite following Cenarius’s explanation, but knowing better than to ask him to clarify
it. The demigod saw both intruders as predators and had fed them accordingly. That was that.

When they were finished, the wizard felt much improved. He opened his mouth with the intention of
pressing on the matter of their captivity, but Cenarius spoke first.

“You should not be here.”

Neither Rhonin nor Krasus knew how to answer.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Cenarius paced the glade. “I’ve conversed with the others, discussed you at length, learned what they
know…and we all agree that you are not meant to be here. You are out of place, but in what way, we’ve
yet to determine.”

 “Perhaps I can explain,” Krasus interjected. He still looked weak to Rhonin, but not so much as when
they had first materialized in this time.

“Perhaps you can,” agreed the young wizard.

 The dragon mage glanced at his companion. Rhonin saw no reason to hold back the truth. Cenarius
appeared to be the first being that they had come across who might be of assistance to them.

But the story that Krasus passed on to their host was not the one the human expected.

 “We come from a land across the sea…far across, but that is unimportant. What is of significance is the
reason why we ended here…”

 In Krasus’s revised tale, it was he, not Nozdormu, who had uncovered the rift. The dragon mage
described it not as a tear in time, but as an anomaly that had upset the fabric of reality, potentially creating
greater and greater catastrophe. He had summoned the one other spellcaster he trusted—Rhonin—and
the pair had traveled to where Krasus had sensed the trouble.

 “We journeyed to a chain of stark peaks in the bitter north of our land, there being where I sensed it
strongest. We came across it and the monstrous things it spewed out at random. The wrongness of it
struck us both hard, but when we sought to investigate closer…it moved, enveloping us. We were cast
out of our land—”

“And into the domain of the night elves,” the demigod completed.

 “Yes,” Krasus said with a nod. Rhonin added nothing and hoped his expression did not betray his
companion. In addition to Krasus’s omissions concerning their true origins, the wizard’s former mentor
left out one other item of possible interest to Cenarius.

He had made no mention of being a dragon.

Backing up a step, the woodland deity eyed both figures. Rhonin could not read his expression. Did he
believe Krasus’s altered story or did he suspect that his “guest” had not been completely forthcoming
with him?

 “This bears immediate discussion with the others,” Cenarius finally declared, staring off into the distance.
His gaze shifted back down to Rhonin and Krasus. “Your needs will be dealt with during my
absence…and then we shall speak again.”

 Before either could say anything, the lord of the forest melted into moonlight, leaving them once more
alone.

“That was futile,” Rhonin growled.

“Perhaps. But I would like to know who these others are.”

“More demigods like himself? Seems the most likely. Why didn’t you tell him about your—”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The dragon mage gave him such a sharp glare that Rhonin faltered. In a much quieter tone, Krasus
replied, “I am a dragon without strength, my young friend. You have no idea what that feels like. No
matter who Cenarius is, I wish that to remain secret until I understand why I cannot recover.”

“And the…rest of the story?”

Krasus looked away. “Rhonin…I mentioned to you that we might be in the past.”

“I understand that.”

 “My memories are…are as scattered as my strength is depleted. I do not know why. However, one
thing I have been able to recall based on what was told me during your induced slumber. I know now
when we are.”

Spirits rising, Rhonin blurted, “But that’s good! It gives us an anchor of sorts! Now we can determine
who best—”

 “Please let me finish.” Krasus’s dour expression did not bode well. “There is a very good reason why I
altered our story as much as I could. I suspected that Cenarius knew some of what was going on,
especially about the anomaly. What I could not tell him are my suspicions as to what it mightpresage.”

The quieter and darker the elder mage’s voice dropped, the more Rhonin grew concerned. “What?”

“I fear we have arrived just prior to the first coming of theBurning Legion.”

 He could have said nothing more horrifying to Rhonin. Having lived—and nearly died more than
once—battling the demonic horde and its allies, the young wizard still suffered monstrous nightmares.
Only Vereesa understood the extent of those nightmares, she having fought through more than a few
herself. It had taken both their growing love and the coming children to heal their hearts and souls and
that after several months.

And now Rhonin had been thrust back into the nightmares.

Jumping to his feet, he said, “Then we’ve got to tell Cenarius, tell everyone we can! They’ll—”

 “They must not know…I fear it may already be too late to preserve matters as they once were.” Also
rising, Krasus stared down his long nose at his former pupil. “Rhonin…as it originally happened, the
Legion was defeated after a terrible, bloody war, the precursor of things to come in our own time.”

“Yes, of course, but—”

 Evidently forgetting his own concerns about the possibility of Cenarius listening in, Krasus seized Rhonin
by the shoulders. Despite the elder mage’s weakness, his long fingers dug painfully into the human’s flesh.
“You still do not understand! Rhonin, by coming here, by simply being here…we may have altered that
history! We may now be responsible for the Burning Legion this time becoming thevictor in this first
struggle…and that would mean not only the death of many innocents here, but the erasing of our own
time.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 It had taken some convincing to make Illidan a part of Malfurion’s sudden and very rash plan. Malfurion
had little doubt that the deciding factor was not anything he had said…but rather Tyrande’s own
impassioned plea. Under her gaze, even Illidan had melted, readily agreeing to assist even though he
clearly did not care for the prisoner one bit. Malfurion knew that something had happened between his
brother and the orc, something that Tyrande had also been involved in, and she used that shared
experience to bring Illidan to their side.

Now they had to succeed.

 The four guards stood alert, each facing a different point on the compass. The sun was only minutes from
rising and the square was empty of all save the soldiers and their charge. With most of the other night
elves asleep, it was the perfect time to strike.

“I’ll deal with the sentries,” Illidan suggested, his left hand already balled into a fist.

 Malfurion quickly took over. He did not question his brother’s abilities, but he also wished no harm to
come to the guards, who were only performing their duties. “No. I said I would take care of them. Give
me a moment.”

 Shutting his eyes, he relaxed himself as Cenarius had shown him. Malfurion receded from the world, but
at the same time, he saw it more clearly, more sharply. He knew exactly what he had to do.

 At his suggestion to them, the necessary elements of nature joined to assist his needs. A cool, tender
wind caressed the face of each guard with the gentleness of a loved one. With the wind came the tranquil
scents of the flowers surrounding Suramar and the soothing call of a nearby night bird. The calmingly
seductive combination enveloped each sentry, drawing them without their noticing into a peaceful,
pleasant, and very deep lethargy that left them oblivious to the waking world.

Satisfied that all four were under his spell, Malfurion blinked, then whispered, “Come…”

 Illidan hesitated, only following when Tyrande stepped out into the open after his brother. The three of
them slowly made their way toward the cage and the soldiers. Despite the certainty that his spell held,
Malfurion still half expected the four sentries to look their way at any moment. Yet even when he and his
companions stood only a few yards away, the soldiers remained ignorant of their presence.

“It worked…” murmured Tyrande in wonder.

 Stopping in front of the foremost guard, Illidan waved his hand before the watchful eyes—all to no
effect. “A nice trick, brother, but for how long?”

“I don’t know. That’s why we must hurry.”

Tyrande knelt down by the cage, peering inside. “I think Broxigar is also caught by your spell,
Malfurion.”

Sure enough, the huge orc lay slumped against the back of his prison, his disinterested gaze looking past
Tyrande. He made no move even when she quietly called out his name.

 After a moment’s consideration, Malfurion suggested, “Touch him softly on the arm and try his name
again. Make certain that he sees you immediately so that you can signal for silence.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Illidan frowned. “He’s sure to yell.”

“The spell will hold, Illidan, but you must be ready to do your part when the time comes.”

“I’mnot the one who’ll risk us,” Malfurion’s brother said with a sniff.

 “Be still, both of you…” Reaching in, Tyrande cautiously touched the orc on his upper arm, at the same
time calling out his name again.

Brox started. His eyes widened and his mouth opened in what would certainly be a very deafening cry.

 But just as quickly he clamped his mouth shut, the only sound managing to escape being a slight grunt.
The orc blinked several times, as if uncertain that the sight before him could possibly be real. Tyrande
touched his hand, then, with a nod to the orc, looked into Brox’s eyes again.

Looking to his brother, Malfurion muttered, “Now! Hurry!”

 Illidan reached down, at the same time whispering under his breath. As he grasped the bars, his hands
flared a bright yellow and the cage itself suddenly became framed in red energy. A slight hum arose.

Malfurion glanced anxiously at the sentries, but even this wondrous display passed unnoticed by them.
He exhaled in relief, then watched as Illidan worked.

 There were advantages to night elven sorcery and his brother had learned well how to wield it. The
astonishing yellow glow surrounding his hands spread to the cage, rapidly enveloping the red. Sweat
dripped from Illidan’s forehead as he pressed his spell, but he did not falter in the least.

 At last, Illidan released his hold and fell back. Malfurion caught his brother before the latter could
stumble into one of the sentries. Illidan’s hand continued to glow for a few seconds more. “You can open
the cell now, Tyrande…”

Releasing Brox, she touched the door of the cage—which then immediately swung open almost of its
own accord.

“The chains,” Malfurion reminded Illidan.

“Of course, brother. I’ve not forgotten.”

 Squatting, Illidan reached for the orc’s manacles. Brox, however, did not respond at first, eyes
narrowing warily at the sight of the male night elf. Tyrande had to take his hands and guide them to her
companion.

 With more muttered words, Malfurion’s brother touched each of the bonds at the lock. The manacles
snapped open like small mouths eagerly waiting to be fed.

“No trouble whatsoever,” Illidan remarked with an extremely pleased smile.

The orc emerged slowly, his body stiff due to the cramped conditions of his cell. He curtly nodded his
gratitude to Illidan, but looked to Tyrande for guidance.

“Broxigar, listen carefully. I want you to go with Malfurion. He’ll take you to a safe place. I’ll see you
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




there later.”

 This had been some cause of argument between Tyrande and Malfurion, the former wanting to see the
orc to safety herself. Malfurion—with Illidan’s more-than-willing assistance—had finally convinced her
that there would be trouble enough when Brox was discovered missing without Tyrande, who had been
seen caring for him, also vanishing. It would not be hard for the Moon Guard to add the facts together.

 “They’ll make the connection quickly,” Malfurion had insisted. “You were the only one to give him aid.
That’s why you need to stay here. They’re less likely to think of me and even if they do, it’s doubtful that
they’ll blame you, then. You are an initiate of Elune. That you know me is no crime with which they can
label you.”

 Although Tyrande had given in, she still did not like Malfurion taking on all the responsibility himself.
True, he had been the one who had come up with this startling course of action, but it was she who had
instigated everything in the first place simply by introducing Malfurion to the imprisoned orc.

Now the young priestess also asked the orc to have faith in one he did not know well. Brox studied
Malfurion, then glared again at Illidan. “That one be with?”

Illidan curled his lip. “I just saved your hide, beast—”

“Enough, Illidan! He’s grateful!” To Brox, Tyrande answered, “Only Malfurion. He’ll take you to a
place where no one will be able to find you! Please! You can trust me!”

Taking her hand in his huge fists, the brutish figure fell to one knee. “I trust in you, shaman.”

At that moment, Malfurion noticed one of the guards beginning to fidget.

“It’s starting to wear away!” he hissed. “Illidan! Take Tyrande and leave! Brox! Come!”

 With astonishing speed and grace, the massive orc leapt to his feet and followed after the night elf.
Malfurion did not look behind him, praying that his druidic spell would hold long enough. For Tyrande
and his brother he had little fear. Their destination was Illidan’s quarters, only a short distance away. No
one would suspect either of any duplicity.

For Malfurion and Brox, however, the matter was different. No one would mistake the orc for anything
but what he was. The two had to escape the city as fast as possible.

 But as they left the square and entered the winding streets of Suramar, the sound that Malfurion had
feared most arose.

 One of the guards had finally awakened. His shouts were quickly multiplied by those of his companions
and, mere seconds later, the blare of a horn filled the air.

“This way!” he urged the orc. “I’ve mounts awaiting us!”

In truth, Malfurion need not have said anything, for the orc, despite his sturdy build, ran with at least as
much swiftness as his rescuer. Had they been out in the wilderness, the night elf suspected Brox would
have even outrun him.

Everywhere, horns sounded and voices cried out. Suramar had sprung to life…much too soon for
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Malfurion’s taste.

At last, the night elf spotted the corner for which he had been waiting. “Here! They’re just around here!”

But as they turned into the side street, Brox suddenly stumbled to a halt, the fearsome orc staring
wide-eyed at the mounts Malfurion had secured.

The huge panthers were black, sinewy shadows. They snarled and hissed upon first sighting the
newcomers, then calmed as Malfurion approached them. He patted each on the flank.

Brox shook his head. “We ridethese?”

“Of course! Now hurry!”

The orc hesitated, but then nearby shouts urged him forward. Brox took the reins given to him and
watched as Malfurion showed how to mount up.

 It took the former captive three tries to climb atop the huge cat, then another minute to learn how to sit.
Malfurion kept glancing behind them, fearful that at any moment the soldiers—or, worse, the Moon
Guard—would arrive. He had not given any consideration to the fact that Brox might not know how to
ride a night saber. What other beast could the orc have expected?

Adjusting his position one last time, Brox reluctantly nodded. Taking a deep breath, Malfurion urged his
mount onward, Brox following as best he could.

 In the space of but a few minutes, the night elf had forever changed his future. Such an audacious act
might only serve to condemn him to Black Rook Hold, but Malfurion knew that he could not let this
chance slip away. Somehow, Brox was linked to the disturbing work of the Highborne…and come what
may, Malfurion had to find out how.

He had the horrible feeling that the fate of all Kalimdor hinged upon it.



 Varo’then had little desire to face Lord Xavius, but that choice was not his. He had been commanded to
appear before the counselor the moment his party arrived and commands given by Lord Xavius were to
be obeyed with as much urgency as if they had been made by Queen Azshara herself…perhaps even
more so.

 The counselor would not like the captain’s report. How to explain that they had somehow been led
astray, then attacked by a forest? Varo’then hoped to use the late, unlamented Koltharius as a
scapegoat, but doubted that his lord would accept such a pathetic offering. Varo’then had been in charge
and to Lord Xavius that would be all that mattered.

 He did not have to ask where the counselor could be found, for when was his master anywhere but the
chamber where the spellwork took place? In truth, Captain Varo’then preferred blades to sorcery and
the chamber was not his favorite place. True, he also wielded a bit of power himself, but what Lord
Xavius and the queen had in mind overwhelmed even him.

 The guards came to attention as he approached, but although they reacted with the respect he was due,
something in their manner seemed different…almost unsettling.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Almost as if they knew exactly what awaited him better than he did.

 The door swung open before him. Eyes down in respect, Captain Varo’then entered the Highborne
sanctum—and a nightmarish beast filled his view.

 “By Elune!” Acting instinctively, he drew his curved blade. The hellish creature howled, two menacing
tentacles above its muscled form groping eagerly toward him. The captain doubted his chances against
such a monstrosity, but he would fight it as best he could.

But then a hissing voice that chilled Varo’then’s bones to the marrow uttered something in a language
unknown. A fearsome whip snapped at the beast’s hunched back.

 Cringing, the demonic hound retreated, leaving Varo’then to gape at the one who had summoned it
away.

 “His name is Hakkar,” Lord Xavius remarked pleasantly, appearing from the side. “The felbeasts are
entirely under his control. The great one has sent him to help open the way…”

“ ‘G-great one,’ my lord?”

To the captain’s dismay, the counselor placed an almost fatherly arm around his shoulder, guiding
Varo’then to the fiery sphere over the pattern. Something about the sphere looked different, giving the
night elf the horrible sensation that if he stood close enough, it would devour him body and soul.

“It’s all right, my good captain. Nothing to fear…”

 He was going to be punished for his failure. If so, at least Varo’then would make a declaration of his
mistakes beforehand, so that he would not lose more face. “My Lord Xavius, the captives were lost! The
forest turned against us—”

 But the counselor only smiled. “You will be given the opportunity to redeem yourself in good time,
captain. First, you must understand the glorious truth…”

“My lord, I don’t—”

He got no further, his eyes snared.

“You understand now,” Xavius remarked, his false eyes narrowed in satisfaction.

 Varo’then sensed the god, sensed how the wondrous presence peeled away every layer that was the
captain. The god within the fiery sphere looked into the deepest depths of Varo’then…and radiated a
pleasure with what he found there.

You, too, will serve me well…

And Varo’then fell to one knee, honoring the one who honored him so.

 “He will be coming to us soon, captain,” Lord Xavius explained as the soldier rose. “But so magnificent
is he that the way must be strengthened in order to accept his overwhelming presence! He has sent this
noble guardian to open the path for others of his host, others who will in turn guide our efforts in
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




strengthening the vortex…and bringing about the fruition of all of our dreams!”

 Varo’then nodded, feeling both pleased and ashamed. “My lord, my failure to capture those strangers I
found near the site of the disruption—”

He was interrupted by the hissing voice of Hakkar “Your failure isss moot. They will be taken…the
great one isss mossst interested in what Lord Xavius hasss told him about this—disssruption—and their
posssible connection to it!”

“But how will you find them? That forest is the realm of the demigod, Cenarius! I’m sure it was him!”

“Cenarius is only a woodland deity,” the counselor reminded him. “We have behind us now much, much
more than that.”

Turning from the night elves, Hakkar snapped his whip at an open area before him. As the sinewy
weapon cracked, a greenish flash of lightning struck the stone floor.

In the lightning’s wake, the area hit glowed brightly. The emerald flare increased rapidly in size and as it
did, it began to coalesce.

The two felbeasts howled, their fearsome tentacles straining, but Hakkar kept them back.

A four-legged shape formed, growing larger and wider. It quickly took on an aspect already familiar to
Captain Varo’then, which it verified with a bloodcurdling howl of its own.

The new hound shook itself once, then joined the others. As the mesmerized night elves watched,
Hakkar repeated the step with his whip, summoning a fourth monstrous beast that lined up with the rest.

 He then spun the lash around and around, creating a circular pattern that flared brighter and brighter until
it created ahole in the air before him, a hole as tall as the fearsome figure and twice as wide.

Hakkar barked out a command in some dark tongue.

The hellish felbeasts leapt through the hole, vanishing. As the last disappeared, the hole itself dissipated.

 “They know what they ssseek,” Hakkar informed his stunned companions. “And they will find what they
ssseek…” The fiery being wound up the whip, his dark gaze turning to the night elves’ spellwork. “And
now we shall begin our own tasssk…”

ELEVEN


It had taken Krasus an entire day to realize that he and

Rhonin were being observed.

It had taken him a half day more to come to the conclusion that the observer had nothing to do with
Cenarius.

 Who it was with the ability to keep their presence hidden from the powerful demigod, the dragon mage
could not say. One of Cenarius’s counterparts? Not likely. The lord of the forest would surely be too
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




familiar with their tricks or any of the servants they might send. The night elves? Krasus dismissed that
possibility immediately, as he did the chance that any other mortal race could be responsible for the
secretive watcher.

 That left him with only one logical conclusion…that the one who spied upon Cenarius and his two
“guests” was of Krasus’s own people.

 In his own time, the dragons sent out observers to keep track of those with the potential to change the
world, either for good or ill. Humans, orcs—everyrace—had its spies. The dragons considered it a
necessary evil; left to their own devices, the younger races had a tendency to create disaster. Even in this
period of the past, there would be spies of some sort. He had no doubt that some kept a wary eye on
Zin-Azshari…but, as was typical of Krasus’s kind, they would do nothing until absolutely certain that
catastrophe was imminent.

In this case, by then it would be too late.

From Cenarius he had kept his secrets secure, but from one of his own, even those of the past, Krasus
decided he needed to tell what he knew. If anyone could avert the potential ruin his and Rhonin’s
presence might have already caused, it was the dragons…but only if they would listen.

 He waited until the human had gone to sleep and the chances of Cenarius returning became remote. The
needs of Krasus and Rhonin were attended to by silent, invisible spirits of the forest. Food materialized at
appointed times and the refuse vanished once the pair were finished eating. Other matters of nature were
handled in similar fashion. This allowed Cenarius to continue his mysterious discussions with his
counterparts—which, with deities, could take days, weeks, months, or even longer—without worrying
that the two would starve to death in his absence.

No matter what the cycle of the moon, the glade remained almost as lit as day. Once satisfied that
Rhonin slept deeply enough, Krasus quietly rose and headed toward the barrier of flowers.

 Even at night, they immediately fixed on him. Moving as close as he could without stirring them, the
dragon mage peered out at the forest beyond, studying the dark trees. He knew better than any the
secrets of stealth used by his kind, knew them better than even a demigod could. What Cenarius might
have missed, Krasus would find.

 At first, the trees all looked the same. He studied each in turn, then did so a second time, still with no
results. His body cried out for rest, but Krasus refused to let his unnatural weakness take control. If he
gave in once, he feared he would never recover.

His gaze suddenly stopped on a towering oak with a particularly thick trunk.

Eyeing it sharply, the weary spellcaster mentally shielded his thoughts, then focused on the tree.

I know you…I know what you are, watcher…

 Nothing happened. No reply came. Briefly Krasus wondered if he had erred, but centuries of
experience insisted otherwise.

He tried again.I know you…cloaked as part of the tree, you watch us and the lord of the forest. You
wonder who we are, why we are here.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Krasus felt a presence stir, however slightly. The observer was uncomfortable with this sudden intrusion
in his thoughts, and not yet willing to declare himself.

 There is much that I can tell you that I could not tell the lord of the forest…but I would speak with more
than the trunk of a tree…

 You risk us both,a somewhat arrogant mind finally responded.The demigod could be watching us in
turn…

The dragon mage hid his pleasure at garnering an answer.You know as well as I that he is not here…and
you can cloak us from the knowledge of any other onlookers…

For a moment, nothing happened. Krasus wondered if he had pushed too far…

 Part of the trunk suddenly tore away, assuming as it separated a humanoid figure of ridged bark. As the
tall shape approached, the bark faded away, transforming to long, flowing garments and a slim face
shadowed to obscurity by a spell with which Krasus himself was long familiar.

 In robes the color of the tree, the all-but-faceless figure paused on the outer perimeter of the magical
glade. Hidden eyes surveyed Krasus from head to foot and although the imprisoned mage could not read
any expression, he was certain of the other’s frustration.

“Who are you?” the watcher quietly asked.

“A kindred spirit, you might say.”

This was met with some disbelief. “You do not know at all what you suggest…”

“I know exactly what I suggest,” Krasus returned strongly.

“I know it as well as I do that she who is called Alexstrasza is the Queen of Life, he who is called
Nozdormu is Time itself, Ysera is She of the Dreaming, and Malygos is Magic incarnate…”

The figure digested the names, then, almost as an afterthought commented, “You did not mention one.”

 Biting back a gasp, Krasus nodded. “And Neltharion is the earth and rock itself, the Warder of the
land.”

“Such names are known by few outside my kind, but theyare known by a few. By what name might I
know you, that I should think you kindred?”

“I am known as…Korialstrasz.”

The other leaned back. “I could not fail to know that name, not when it belongs to a consort of the
Queen of Life, but something is amiss. I have observed everything since your capture and you act like
none of my kind. Cenarius is powerful, very much so, but he should not so readily hold you as his
hostage, not the one called Korialstrasz…”

“I have been injured badly.” Krasus waved that away.

“Time is of the essence! I must reach Alexstrasza and tell her what I know! Can you take me to her?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Just like that? You do have the arrogance of a dragon! Why should I risk for all dragons the umbrage
of the woodland deity on your questionable identity alone? He will know from now on that he is
observed and will act accordingly.”

“Because the potential threat to the world—our world— is more important than an insult to the dignity of
a demigod.” Taking a deep breath, the dragon mage added, “And if you only will permit, I will reveal to
you what I mean…”

 “I do not know if I trust you,” the darkened watcher said, cocking his head to one side. “But in your
condition, I do not think I have much to fear from you, either. If you know how…then show me what
colors your words with such anxiety.”

Krasus refrained from any retort, despite his growing dislike for this other dragon. “If you are ready…”

“Do it.”

Their minds touched…and Krasus unveiled the truth.

 Under the rush of intense images, the other dragon stumbled back. The shadow spell around his face
momentarily lost cohesion, revealing a peculiar reptilian and elven combination locked in an expression of
total disbelief.

 But the shadows returned as quickly as they had dissipated. Still obviously digesting what he had been
shown, the watcher nonetheless recovered some of his composure. “This is all impossible…”

“Probable, I would say.”

“These are pure figments of your creation!”

“Would that they were,” Krasus remarked sadly. “You see now why I must speak with our queen?”

His counterpart shook his head. “What you are asking is—”

The two dragons froze, both sensing simultaneously the nearing presence of an overwhelming force.

Cenarius. The demigod had made an unexpected return.

 Immediately the watcher began to retreat. Krasus, fearful that his one chance might be lost, reached out.
“No. You cannot afford to ignore this! I must see Alexstrasza!”

His arm passed over the flowers. The blossoms reacted, immediately opening wide and spraying him
with their magical dust.

Krasus’s world swam. He teetered forward, falling into their midst.

 Strong arms suddenly caught him. He heard a quiet hiss of anxiety and knew that the other dragon had
taken hold of him.

“I am a fool for doing thisss!” the other gasped.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Krasus gave silent thanks for the watcher’s decision, until a sudden realization struck the collapsing
mage. He tried to say something, but his mouth would not work.

And as he blacked out, his last thoughts were no longer of gratitude to the other dragon for finally taking
him with him…but rather fury with himself for not having had the chance to make certain thatRhonin
would be included in the escape.



 The panthers darted through the thick forest, Brox’s racing with such ferocity that it was all the hapless
orc could do to keep seated. Although he was used to riding the huge wolves raised by his own people,
the cat’s movements differed in subtle ways that constantly left the orc anxious.

 Just within sight ahead, the shadowed form of Malfurion bent low over his own beast, urging it this
direction or that. Brox was glad that his rescuer had a path in mind, but he hoped that the arduous
journey would not take too much longer.

Soon it would be sunrise. The orc had thought this a bad thing, for then they would be visible from a
greater distance, but Malfurion had indicated that the coming of day was to their benefit. If the Moon
Guard pursued them, the night elven sorcerers’ powers would be weaker once the darkness faded.

Of course, there would still be soldiers with which to deal.

 Behind him, Brox heard the growing sounds of pursuit. Horns, distant shouts, the occasional snarl of
another panther. He had assumed that Malfurion had more of a plan than simply hoping to outpace the
other riders, but apparently that was not the case. His rescuer was no warrior, simply a soul who had
sought to do the right thing.

The black of night began to give way to gray, but a murky, foggy gray—a morning mist. The orc
welcomed the unexpected mist, however temporary it would be, but hoped that his mount would not lose
Malfurion’s in it.

Vague shapes appeared and disappeared around him. Now and then, Brox thought he made out
movement. His hand ached for his trusted ax, still in the custody of the night elves. Malfurion had
provided him with no weapon, perhaps a wary precaution on the former’s part.

The horns sounded again, this time much closer. The veteran warrior snarled.

Malfurion vanished into the fog. Brox straightened, trying to make out his companion and fearing that his
own animal would now run off in an entirely different direction.

 The panther suddenly twisted as it adjusted its path to avoid a massive rock. The orc, caught unaware,
lost his balance.

With a grunt of dismay, Brox slipped off the fleet cat, tumbling onto the hard, uneven ground and rolling
headlong into a thick bush.

Trained reflexes took command. Brox shifted into a crouch, coming up ready to remount. Unfortunately,
his cat, oblivious to his misfortune, continued on, disappearing into the mist.

And the sounds of pursuit grew louder yet.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Immediately Brox sought out something,anything, that he could use as a weapon. He picked up a fallen
branch, only to have it crumble in his beefy hands. The only rocks were either too small to be of use or
so huge as to be unmanageable.

Something large rustled the shrubbery to his left.

The orc braced himself. If a soldier, he had a fair chance. If one of the Moon Guard, the odds were
distinctly stacked against Brox, but he would go down fighting.

A huge, panting, four-legged form burst from the fogenshrouded forest.

 Shock nearly did Brox in, for what leapt at him was no panther. It howled something like a wolf or dog,
but only vaguely resembled either. At the shoulder, it stood about as tall as him and from its back
stretched two foul, leathery tentacles. The mouth was filled with row upon row of savage fangs. Thick,
greenish saliva dripped from its huge, hungry maw.

Monstrous memories filled his thoughts. He had seen such horrors, even if he himself had never fought
one. They had run ahead of the other demons, pack upon pack of slavering, sinister monsters.

Felbeasts…the forerunners of theBurning Legion.

Brox awoke from his renewed nightmares just before the felbeast had him. He threw himself forward,
under the huge creature. The felbeast tried to snag him with its claws, but momentum worked against it.
The massive beast stumbled to a quick halt and looked back at its elusive prey.

The orc struck it on the nose with his fist.

 For most races, such an assault would likely result in nothing save possibly the loss of the hand, but Brox
was not only an orc, he was a swift and powerful one. Not only did he strike before the felbeast could
react, but he did so with the full fury and might of the strongest of his kind.

The blow broke the demonic hound’s nose. The beast stumbled and a bloodcurdling whine escaped it.
Thick, dark green fluid dripped from its wound.

 His hand pounding with pain, Brox kept his gaze on his adversary’s own. One did not let any animal,
especially one so hellish as this, see any sign of retreat or fear. Only by fac ing it did the orc have any
chance, however minute, of survival.

 Then, from out of the fog in which it had disappeared, Brox’s mount came charging. The cat’s cry made
the felbeast turn, all interest in the orc forgotten. The two behemoths collided in a fury of claws and teeth.

Knowing that he could do nothing for the panther, Brox started to back away. However, he had
managed only a few steps when the low, steady sound of heavy breathing from behind him filled his ears.
With slow, very cautious movements, the orc glanced over his shoulder.

A short distance away, a second felbeast poised itself to leap on Brox.

With no other option, the frustrated warrior finally ran.

The second demon gave chase, howling as it threw itself toward its quarry. The two combatants ignored
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




it, caught up in their own struggle. Already the panther had suffered two savage wounds on its torso.
Brox gave silent thanks to the creature for even this momentary rescue, then concerned himself with
trying to elude his other pursuer in the enshrouded forest.

 Wherever the path narrowed most, the orc pushed himself through. The much larger felbeast had to go
around the natural obstacles or, if it could, crash through them, allowing Brox to remain just out of reach.
He despised the fact that he had to keep running, but without a weapon Brox knew his chances of
defeating the monster were nonexistent.

A short distance away, the mournful call of a dying animal informed Brox that the panther had lost the
battle and soon there would betwo felbeasts out for the orc’s blood.

 Distracted by the cat’s death cry, Brox did not watch his footing well enough. Suddenly a tree root
seemed to rise just enough to catch his foot. He managed to keep from falling,

 but his lack of true balance sent him spinning wildly to the side. He grasped at a slim, leafless tree only a
head taller than himself, but the entire trunk broke away in his grip, sending him colliding with a much
larger, sturdier one.

 Head aching, Brox could barely focus on the oncoming behemoth. The small tree still in his hand, he
swung it around and jabbed with it like a lance.

 The demon hound swatted at the makeshift weapon, tearing away the top third and leaving jagged
splinters on the end. Eyes still blurry, the orc held tight to what remained, then charged the monster.

The damage done by the felbeast gave the makeshift lance a deadliness it had not had prior. Shoving
with all his might, Brox buried the sharp, fragmented end deep into the gaping jaws.

 With a muffled howl of agony, the demon tried to fall back, but Brox advanced, his entire body straining
as he pushed the lance deeper yet.

One of the tentacles reached for him. The orc released one hand, snagged the oncoming threat, and
pulled as hard as he could.

With a moist, tearing sound, the tentacle came free.

Now much splattered with its own foul fluids, the felbeast’s front legs collapsed. Brox did not relinquish
his hold on the tree, adjusting his position to match his adversary’s increasingly desperate movements.

The rear legs crumpled. Tail twitching frantically, the fearsome beast pawed at the obstruction in its
gullet. It finally managed to snap Brox’s weapon in two, but the front portion remained lodged.

 Aware that the felbeast might still recover, the orc searched frantically for something to replace his lost
lance.

Instead, he found himself facing his first foe again.

 The other felbeast had scars across its body and, in addition to the nose wound Brox had given it earlier,
a chunk of flesh had been torn from the right shoulder. Still, despite its worsened condition, the beast
looked more than healthy enough to finish off the exhausted orc.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Seizing a thick, broken branch, Brox brandished it like a sword. But he knew that his luck had come to
an end. The limb was hardly strong enough to ward away the huge monstrosity.

Crouching, the felbeast tensed—

 But as it jumped, the forest itself came alive in defense of Brox. The wild grass and weeds under the
demonic creature sprouted madly, shooting up with such astonishing swiftness that they caught the
felbeast just after it left the earth.

 Limbs hopelessly entangled, the horrific creature snarled and snapped at the grass. Its twin tentacles
stretched down, trying to touch the animated plant life that held it from its prey.

“Brox!”

 Malfurion rode toward the orc, looking as weary as Brox felt. The night elf pulled up next to him and
reached a hand down.

“I owe you again,” rumbled the veteran warrior.

“You owe me nothing.” Malfurion glanced at the trapped felbeast. “Especially since it looks as if that
won’t hold him for very long!”

 True enough, wherever the macabre tentacles touched the grass and weeds, the plants withered. One
front paw had already been freed and even as the felbeast worked on liberating the rest, it strained to
reach Brox and the night elf.

“Magic…” muttered Brox, recalling similar sights. “It’s devouring the magic…”

 Face grim, Malfurion helped his companion aboard. The panther grunted, but did not otherwise protest
the added weight. “Then, we’d better leave quickly.”

A horn sounded, this time so near that Brox almost ex pected to see the trumpeter. The pursuit from
Suramar had almost caught up.

Suddenly, Malfurion hesitated. “They’ll ride right into that beast! If any of them are Moon Guard—”

 “Magic can still slay a felbeast if there’s enough of it, night elf…but if you wish to stay and fight the
creature with them, I will stand at your side.” That doing so would mean either his death or recapture,
Brox did not add. He would not abandon Malfurion, who had already rescued him twice.

 The morning fog had already begun to dissipate and vague figures could already be seen in the distance.
Grip tightening on the reins, Malfurion abruptly turned the pantheraway from the felbeasts and the
approaching riders. He said nothing to Brox, instead simply urging his mount to as quick a pace as it
could set and leaving both threats behind.

Behind them, the demon freed another limb, its attention already seized by growing sounds heralding
new prey…



Something stirred Rhonin from his slumber, something that made him very uneasy.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 He made no immediate motion, instead his eyelids opening just enough to let him see a bit of the
surrounding area. Glimpses of daylight enabled the wizard to make out the surrounding trees, the ominous
line of flower sentinels, and the grass upon which he lay.

What Rhonin could not make out was any sign of Krasus.

He sat up, searching for the dragon mage. Surely Krasus had to be somewhere in the glade.

But after a thorough survey of the region, Krasus’s disappearance could no longer be denied.

Wary, the wizard rose and went to the edge of the glade. The flowers turned to face him, each bloom
opening wide. Rhonin was tempted to see how powerful they were, but suspected that a demigod would
hardly place them here if they could not readily deal with a mere mortal.

Eyeing the woods, Rhonin quietly called, “Krasus?”

Nothing.

 Staring at the trees just beyond his prison, the wizard frowned. Something did not look the same, but he
could not say exactly what.

He stepped back, trying to think…and suddenly noticed that he was in shadow.

 “Where is the other one?” Cenarius demanded, no hint of kindliness in his tone. Although clear, the sky
suddenly rumbled and a harsh wind came out of nowhere to swat the human. “Where is your friend?”

Facing the towering demigod, Rhonin kept his expression neutral. “I don’t know. I just woke up and he
was gone.”

 The antlered figure’s golden orbs flared and his frown sent chills down Rhonin’s spine. “There are
troubling signs in the world. Some of the others have only just now sensed intruders, creatures not of any
natural origin, sniffing around, seeking something—orsomeone.” He studied the wizard very closely.
“And they come so soon after you and your friend drop from nowhere…”

 What these unnamed creatures might be, Rhonin could only suspect. If so, he and Krasus had even less
time than they had imagined.

Seeing that his “guest” had nothing yet to say, Cenarius added, “Your friend could not have escaped
without assistance, but he leaves you behind. Why is that?”

“I—”

 “There were those among the others who insisted that I should have given you to them immediately, that
they would have found out through more thorough means than I prefer the reasons for your being here
and what it is about you that so interests the night elves. I had, up until now, convinced them otherwise in
this matter.”

 Rhonin’s highly attuned senses suddenly detected the presence of another powerful force, one which, in
its own way, matched Cenarius.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Now I see I must acquiesce to the majority,” the lord of the forest finished reluctantly.

“We heard your call…” growled a deep, ponderous voice. “You admit you were wrong…”

 The wizard tried to turn and see who now spoke, but his legs—his entire body—would not obey his
commands.

Something more immense than the demigod moved up behind Rhonin.

 Cenarius did not seem at all pleased by the other’s comments. “I admit only that other steps must be
taken.”

“The truth will be known…” A heavy,furred hand with thick claws enveloped Rhonin’s shoulder,
gripping it painfully. “…and knownsoon…”

TWELVE


You should stay in the temple!” Illidan insisted.

“Malfurion thought that best and so do I!”

But Tyrande would not be swayed. “I have to know what’s happening! You saw how many rode in
pursuit! If they captured them—”

 “They won’t.” He squinted, the blinding sun not at all to his liking. He could feel his powers waning, feel
the rush of magic fading. Illidan did not like such sensations. He savored magic in all its forms. That had
been one reason he had even tried to follow the druidic path—that, and the fact that what Cenarius
supposedly taught would not be affected by night or day.

 They stood dangerously near the square, a place Tyrande had insisted upon returning to once matters
had quieted down. The Moon Guard and the soldiers had ridden off after Malfurion, leaving only a pair
of the former to inspect the cage for clues. That they had done, finding nothing to trace the culprits, just
as Illidan had expected. In truth, he considered himself at least as proficient as any of the honored
sorcerers, if not more.

“I should ride after—”

 Would she never give in? “You do that and you’ll risk everyone! You want them to take that pet
creature of yours to Black Rook Hold and Lord Ravencrest? For that matter, they might take us there as
w—”

 Illidan suddenly clamped his mouth shut. From the opposite end of the square now entered several
armored riders…and in their lead, Lord Kur’talos Ravencrest himself.

 It was too late to hide. As the night elven commander rode past, his dour gaze shifted first to Tyrande,
then her companion.

At sight of Illidan, Ravencrest called a sudden halt.

“I know you, lad…Illidan Stormrage, isn’t it?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Yes, my lord. We met once.”

“And this?”

Tyrande bowed. “Tyrande Whisperwind, novice priestess of the temple of Elune…”

 The mounted night elves respectfully made the sign of the moon. Ravencrest graciously acknowledged
Tyrande, then turned his gaze once more to Illidan. “I recall our encounter. You were studying the arts,
then.” He rubbed his chin. “You are not yet a member of the Moon Guard, are you?”

 That Ravencrest would ask the question in such a way indicated that he already knew the answer.
Clearly after their initial meeting he had kept an eye on Illidan, something that made the younger night elf
both proud and extremely uneasy. He had done nothing he knew of to warrant bringing himself to the
commander’s attention. “No, my lord.”

 “Then you are free of some of their restrictions, aren’t you?” The restrictions to which the commander
referred had to do with the oaths each sorcerer swore upon entering the fabled order. The Moon Guard
was an entity unto its own and owed no loyalty to anyone save the queen…which meant that they were
not at the beck and call of those such as Lord Ravencrest.

“I suppose I am.”

“Good. Very good. I want you to ride with us, then.”

 Now both Tyrande and Illidan looked confused. Likely fearing for Illidan’s safety, the young priestess
said, “My Lord Ravencrest, we would be honored—”

She got no farther. The night elven lord raised a polite hand to silence her. “Not you, sister, although the
blessing of the Mother Moon is always welcome. No, ’tis the lad alone with whom I speak now.”

 Trying not to show his increasing anxiety, Illidan asked, “But what would you have need of me for, my
lord?”

 “For the moment, investigation into the escape of the creature we had penned here! News came to me
just moments ago of his escape. Assuming that he’s not been captured already, I’ve some notions as to
how to find him. I might need the aid of a bit of sorcery, though, and while the Moon Guard are capable,
I prefer someone who listens to orders.”

To refuse a request by a night elf as highly ranked as Ravencrest would have been suspicious, but joining
him risked Malfurion. Tyrande glanced surreptitiously at Illidan, trying to read his thoughts. He, on the
other hand, wished that she could tell him the best path to take.

In truth, there was only one choice. “I’d be honored to join you, my lord.”

“Excellent! Rol’tharak! A mount for our young sorcerer friend here!”

 The officer in question brought forth a spare night saber, almost as if Ravencrest had expected Illidan all
the time. The animal crouched low so that its new rider could mount up.

“The sun is well upon us, my lord,” Rol’tharak commented to Ravencrest as he handed down the reins
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




of the beast to Malfurion’s brother.

“We will make do…as will you, eh, sorcerer?”

 Illidan understood very well the veiled message. His pow ers would be weaker in daylight, but the
commander was still confident that he would be of use. The confidence which Ravencrest had in him
made Illidan’s head swell.

“I will not fail you, my lord.”

“Splendid, lad!”

 As he slipped atop the panther, Illidan gave Tyrande a quick glance, indicating that she should not worry
about Malfurion and the orc. He would ride with Ravencrest and aid in whatever way he could so long as
the pair would still make good their escape.

Tyrande’s brief but grateful smile was all the reward he could have desired. Feeling quite good about
himself, Illidan nodded to the commander that he was ready.

 With a wave and a shout, Lord Ravencrest led the armed force on. Illidan leaned forward, determined
to keep pace with the noble. Somehow he would please Ravencrest while at the same time keeping his
altruistic brother from being sent to Black Rook Hold. Malfurion knew the forest lands well, which meant
that he would likely stay ahead of the soldiers and Moon Guard, but in the awful chance that pursuit had
caught up with Illidan’s twin and Tyrande’s creature, Illidan had to at least consider sacrificing Brox to
save his brother. Tyrande would come to understand that. He would do what he could to avoid it, but
blood came first…

 As often happened, a morning fog draped over the landscape. The thick mist would break up soon, but
it meant more hope for Malfurion. Illidan kept his gaze on the path ahead, wondering if it was the same
one his brother had used. It might be that the Moon Guard had not even chosen the right direction, which
meant that he and Lord Ravencrest now pursued a futile course of action.

 But as they raced deeper and deeper into the wooded lands, the fog quickly gave way. The morning sun
seemed as eager to drain Illidan of his power as it did to eat away the mist, but he gritted his teeth and
tried not to think of what that might mean. If it came to some sort of show of sorcery, he had no intention
of disappointing the noble. The hunt for the orc had become as much Illidan’s excuse to make new
connections within the hierarchy of the night elf world as it had anything to do with the escape of Brox.

 But just as they reached the top of a ridge, something farther down made Illidan frown and Lord
Ravencrest curse. The commander immediately slowed his mount, the rest following suit. Ahead
appeared to be a number of peculiar mounds scattered along the trail. The night elves cautiously
descended the other side of the ridge, Ravencrest and the soldiers keeping their weapons ready. Illidan
suddenly prayed that he had not overestimated his daytime skills.

“By the Blessed Azshara’s eyes!” muttered Ravencrest.

Illidan could say nothing. He could only gape at the carnage revealed as they drew near.

At least half a dozen night elves, including two of the Moon Guard, lay dead before the newcomers, their
bodies torn to shreds and, in the case of the two sorcerers, seeminglysucked dry by some vampiric force.
The two Moon Guard resembled nothing more than shriveled fruit left in the sun too long. Their
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




emaciated forms were stretched in positions of the utmost agony and clearly they had struggled
throughout their horrible ordeals.

 Five night sabers also lay dead, some with their throats torn out, the others disemboweled. Of the
remaining panthers, there was no sign.

“I was right!” Ravencrest snapped. “That green-hided creature was not alone! There must’ve been two
dozen and more to do this…and with the Moon Guard along yet!”

Illidan paid him no mind, concerned more with what might have befallen Malfurion. This could not be the
work of either his brother or one orc. Did Lord Ravencrest have the right of it? Had Brox betrayed
Malfurion, leading him to his savage comrades?

I should’ve slain the beast when I had the opportunity!His fist tightened and he felt his rage fuel his
powers. Given a target, Illidan would have more than proved his sorcerous might to the noble.

Then one of the soldiers noticed something to the right of the carnage. “My lord! Come look! I’ve seen
nothing like it!”

Steering their animals around, Illidan and Ravencrest stared wide-eyed at the beast the other night elf
had found.

 It was a creature out of nightmare, in some ways lupine in form, but monstrously distorted, as if some
insane god had created it out of the depths of his madness. Even in death it lost no bit of its inherent
horror.

“What do you make of it, sorcerer?”

 For a moment, Illidan forgot thathe was the fount of magical wisdom here. Shaking his head, he
responded with all honesty, “I have no idea, Lord Ravencrest…no idea.”

 However terrifying the monster was, someone had dealt hard with it, jamming a makeshift spear down
its gullet and likely choking it to death.

Again Illidan’s thoughts turned to his brother, last known by him to be heading into this forest. Had
Malfurion done this? It seemed unlikely. Did his twin instead lie nearby, torn apart as readily as the two
Moon Guard?

 “Very curious,” Ravencrest muttered. He suddenly straightened, looking around. “Where are the rest of
the first party?” he demanded to no one in particular. “There should be twice as many as we found!”

As if to answer that, a mournful horn blast arose from the south, where the forest dropped abruptly,
becoming more treacherous to traverse.

The commander pointed his blade in the direction of the horn blast. “That way…but be wary…there
may be more of those monsters about!”

 The party worked their way down, each member, Illidan included, watching the thickening forest with
trepidation. The horn did not sound again, not at all a good sign.

Several yards down, they came across another night saber, its entire side opened up by savage claws, its
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




back also broken by the two huge oaks into which it had crashed. Only a short distance away, another of
the Moon Guard lay pressed against a massive rock, his emaciated body and his horrified expression
chilling even the hardened soldiers of Lord Ravencrest.

“Steady…” the noble quietly ordered. “Keep order…”

Once more, the horn sounded feebly, this time much closer and directly ahead.

 The newcomers wended their way toward it. Illidan had the horrible feeling that something watched him
in particular, but whenever he looked around, he saw only the trees.

“Another one, my lord!” the night elf called Rol’tharak blurted, pointing just ahead.

 Sure enough, a second hellish beast lay dead, its body sprawled as if even in dying it had sought another
victim. In addition to a crushed nose and a shoulder torn apart, it had several strange, ropelike marks on
its legs. What had slain it, however, were a number of well-aimed thrusts to its throat by night elven
blades. One still remained embedded in the beast.

They found two more soldiers nearby, the highly trained warriors of the realm tossed about like rag
dolls. Illidan’s brow furrowed in puzzlement. If the night elves had managed to slay both monsters, then
where were the survivors?

Moments later, they found what remained.

 One soldier sat propped against a tree, his left arm torn free. A poor attempt had been made to bandage
the immense wound. He stared without seeing at the new arrivals, the horn still in his one remaining hand.
Blood covered his torso.

 Next to him lay the other to survive—if to survive meant to have half of one’s face ripped apart and one
leg twisted under at an impossible angle. His breathing was ragged, his chest barely rising each time.

“You there!” Ravencrest bellowed to the one with the horn. “Look at me!”

The survivor blinked slowly, then forced his gaze to that of the noble.

“Is this it? Are there any more?”

The mauled fighter opened his mouth, but no sound escaped it.

“Rol’tharak! Look to his wounds! Give him water if he needs it!”

“Aye, my lord!”

“The rest of you fan out! Now!”

 Illidan remained with Ravencrest, watching warily as the others established what they hoped would be a
safe perimeter. That so many of their fellows, including three spellcasters, had been so easily massacred
did nothing for morale.

“Speak up!” Ravencrest roared. “I command you! Who was responsible for this? The escaped
prisoner?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




At this, the bloody soldier let out a wild laugh, startling Rol’tharak so much that he stepped back.

“N-never saw that one, m-my lord!” the maimed figure responded. “Probably all eaten up h-himself!”

“So it was those monsters, then? Those hounds?”

The stricken night elf nodded.

“What happened to the Moon Guard? Why didn’t they stop the things? Surely even in the daytime—”

And again the wounded soldier laughed. “M-my lord! The sorcerers were the easiest of the p-prey…”

 Through effort, the story came out. The soldiers and the Moon Guard had pursued the escaped creature
and another, unidentified figure through the forest, following their tracks even through fog and the coming
sun. They had not actually seen the pair, but had been certain that it would only be a matter of time
before they caught up.

Then, unexpectedly, they had come across the first beast.

 No one had ever seen anything like it. Even dead it had unnerved the night elves. Hargo’then, the lead
sorcerer, had sensed something magical about it. He had commanded the rest to wait a few paces behind
him while he rode up to investigate the corpse. No one had argued.

 “An unnatural thing,” Hargo’then had proclaimed as he had begun to dismount. “Tyr’kyn…” he had
called to one of the other Moon Guard. “I want you to—”

That was when the second beast had fallen upon him.

“It came from out behind the nearest trees, m-my lord…and went directly for…for Hargo’then! S-slew
his mount with one swipe of the c-claws and th-then…”

 The sorcerer had no chance. Before the startled night elves could react, two horrific tentacles on the
creature’s back had thrust out, adhering themselves like leeches to Hargo’then’s chest and forehead. The
Moon Guard leader screamed as no night elf had ever heard one of their own scream and before their
eyes he had suddenly shriveled into a dry, limp husk quickly discarded by the slavering, four-legged
monstrosity.

 Finally recovering from their shock, the other night elves belatedly charged the beast, seeking at least to
avenge Hargo’then’s death.

Too late they realized that they were also being hunted from behind by a third beast. The attackers had
become the attacked, caught between twin demonic forces.

 The resulting carnage had been clear for the newcomers to see. The Moon Guard had perished swiftly,
their weakened magical abilities actually making them much more attractive prey. The soldiers had fared
little better, but at least their blades had some effect on the demons.

 As the survivor finished his tale, he grew less coherent. By the time he reached the conclusion, where he
and three others had banded together at this spot, it was all Lord Ravencrest and Illidan could do to
understand his ramblings.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Rol’tharak looked up. “He’s passed out again, my lord. I fear he may not be waking up again.”

 “See what you can do for him to ease his pain. Check that other one, too.” The noble frowned. “I want
another look at that first carcass. Sorcerer, attend me.”

Illidan followed Ravencrest back along the trail. Two guards broke off from their duties to follow the
pair. The other soldiers continued to survey the area, trying unsuccessfully to find any more survivors.

 “What do you make of the story?” the veteran commander asked of Illidan. “Have you heard of such
things?”

“Never, my lord…but I am not part of the Moon Guard and so not privy to all their arcane knowledge.”

“For all the good their knowledge did them! Hargo’then was always too confident! Most of the Moon
Guard are!”

Illidan gave a noncommittal noise.

“Here it is…”

 The macabre beast looked as if it still sought to remove the wedge from its throat. Despite the open
wounds it bore, the creature was bereft of any eager scavengers, even flies. Even the forest life seemed
repelled by the dead intruder.

 To the two soldiers, Ravencrest commanded, “Check the path we took. See if the trail the first party
and ours followed continues on. I still want that green-skinned brute…more than ever now!”

 As the other two rode on, both Illidan and the noble dismounted, the latter also unsheathing his blade.
The night sabers were not at all keen on remaining so near the carcass, so their riders led them to a thick
tree a short distance away and tied the reins to it.

 Once back at the corpse, Lord Ravencrest knelt down. “Simply horrid! In all my years, I’ve never faced
such a thing so well designed for carnage…” He lifted a leathery tentacle. “Curious appendage. So this is
what the other used to suck Hargo’then dry! What do you make of it?”

 Trying not to back away from the foul limb thrust in his face, Illidan managed, “V-vampiric in nature, my
lord. Some animals drink blood, but this one seeks magical energy.” He looked around. “The other’s
been torn off.”

“Yes, so it has. Likely by an animal…”

 While the noble continued his gruesome examination, Illidan considered the monstrosity’s death. The
soldier reported that this first one had been dead already. To the young night elf’s quick mind, that meant
the only ones who could have slain it were Malfurion and Brox…and judging by the physical struggle that
had taken place, Illidan would have placed his bet more on the powerful orc.

 Off to the side, the cats grew increasingly virulent in their protests at being so near the creature. Illidan
tried to shut out the sounds of their hissing, still concerned about his brother. They had sighted no other
corpses save those of the first party and the second of the three beasts mentioned, but—
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Head snapping up straight, Illidan said, “My Lord Ravencrest! We never found any sign of the—”

The snarls of the night sabers reached a new crescendo.

Illidan sensed something behind him.

He threw himself to the side, accidentally colliding with the unsuspecting noble. Both fell flat to the
ground, the younger night elf sprawled haphazardly over the commander. Ravencrest’s sword flew
wildly, landing far beyond either’s reach.

The huge, clawed form that had just leapt at Illidan went sailing over the carcass of its twin.

“What in the name of—” Ravencrest managed. The night sabers struggled to attack, but their reins held,
keeping the cats from being any aid.

 Recovering first, Illidan looked up to see the hellish creature turning to attempt a second strike. He had
thought the dead one terrifying enough, but to see one alive and bearing down on him nearly made Illidan
flee in utter panic.

 But instead of leaping again, the canine horror suddenly lashed at Illidan with the two tentacles atop its
back. Memories of the husks that had once been powerful members of the Moon Guard filled the night
elf’s mind.

 Yet, as the gaping appendages sought his magic, sought his very body, self-preservation took over.
Recalling how one tentacle on the dead beast had been ripped free, Illidan quickly devised a plan of
attack.

 He did not try to strike the monster directly, knowing how little that would probably help. It would
simply suck up Illidan’s spell and perhaps continue draining him directly. Instead, Illidan chose to cast his
spell on Lord Ravencrest’s lost blade, which lay out of his hellish foe’s sight.

 The animated sword rose swiftly in the air and began to spin, whirling faster and faster. Illidan directed it
at the creature’s back, aiming for the parasitic appendages.

With pinpoint accuracy, the whirling blade shot across the shoulders of the toothy behemoth, severing
both tentacles as simply as it could have shaved a blade of grass.

With a maddened howl, the houndlike beast shook, thick, greenish fluids spilling over its shoulders and
down its backside. It snarled, its unsettling gaze narrowing on the one who had hurt it so.

 Emboldened by his success and less fearful now that the danger to his sorcery had been eliminated,
Illidan directed Ravencrest’s sword back again. As the monster leapt at him, the young night elf smiled
darkly at it.

With a force magnified by his intense will, he buried the weapon in the creature’s hard skull.

The monster’s leap faltered. It stumbled awkwardly. A glazed look filled the horrific orbs. The massive
beast took two hesitant steps toward Illidan…then crumpled in a limp heap.

 An incredible exhaustion overcame the young night elf, but one mixed with a sense of extreme
satisfaction and triumph. He had done with little hesitation what three of the Moon Guard had failed to
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




do. That he had learned from their mistakes, Illidan did not care. He only knew that by himself he had
taken on a demon and won handily.

 “Well done!” A heavy slap on his back nearly sent him stumbling into his monstrous foe. As Illidan
fought to maintain his balance, Lord Ravencrest stepped past him to admire his companion’s work. “A
splendid counterattack! Remove the greatest danger, then strike the death blow while the enemy tries to
recoup! Splendid!”

 The noble put one boot on a forelimb of the demon and struggled to remove his blade. From the trail
rode the two guards and further behind Illidan, others shouted as realization of the threat finally sank in
among the rest of the party.

“My lord!” shouted one of the two guards. “We heard—”

Rol’tharak rushed up. “Lord Ravencrest! You slew one of the beasts! Are you injured?”

 Illidan expected Ravencrest to take credit—after all, the noble’s weapon still pierced the monster’s
head—but instead the elder night elf stretched forth his hand and indicated Malfurion’s brother. “Nay!
Here stands the one who, after risking himself to throw me from the creature’s path, readily disposed of
the danger with scarcely a concern for his own life! I saw right about you from the first, Illidan
Stormrage! More capable than a dozen Moon Guard you are!”

 Cheeks darkening, the young night elf accepted the accolades of the powerful commander. Years of
hearing how he was expected to be a hero, a champion of his people, had set a heavy load on his
shoulders. Yet, now, Illidan felt as if his destiny had finally revealed itself…and it had done so with the
innate sorcery he had almost rejected for the slower, more subtle druidic spells Cenarius had been
teaching.

I was a fool to reject my heritage,Illidan realized.Malfurion’s path was never meant to be mine. Even in
daytime, night elven sorcery is mine to command…

It heartened him, actually, for he had felt strange taking up the ways of his brother. What hero of legend
had been recorded following the footsteps of another? Illidan had been meant tolead.

The soldiers—Lord Ravencrest’s capable, veteran soldiers—eyed him with a new and healthy respect.

 “Rol’tharak!” the noble called. “I feel luck is with me this day! I want you to lead half the warriors on
after the trail! We may still find the prisoner and whoever released him! Go now!”

“Aye, my lord!” Rol’tharak summoned several soldiers, then, after all had mounted, led them in the
direction Malfurion and Brox had likely gone.

 Illidan scarcely thought of his brother, already assuming that the delay here had given Malfurion all the
time he needed to lose his pursuers. He did think of Tyrande, however, who would not only be quite
pleased by what she would see as his having delayed the hunters but also would be rightly impressed by
the high praise Lord Ravencrest had bestowed upon him.

 And it seemed that the noble had more to bestow upon the one he thought had saved his life. Striding up
to Illidan, Ravencrest put one gauntleted hand on the other night elf’s shoulder, then declared, “Illidan
Stormrage, the Moon Guard may be ignorant of your prowess, but I am not. You are hereby marked as
one of Black Rook Hold’s own…and my personal sorcerer! As such, you’ll be of a rank outside of the
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Moon Guard, equal to any of their own and unable to be commanded by any of their order! You will
answer only to me and to your queen, the Light of Lights, Azshara!”

The rest of the night elves put their left hands to their chests and dipped their heads in homage at the
mention of the queen.

“I am—honored—my lord…”

 “Come! We ride back immediately! I want to gather a larger force to bring these carcasses to Black
Rook Hold! This must be investigated thoroughly! If we’re to be invaded by some hellish horde, we must
learn everything we can, then alert her majesty!”

 Caught up in his euphoria, Illidan paid scant attention to any mention of Azshara. Had he done so, he
might have had at least some slight concern, for it was because of her that Malfurion had dared the wrath
of his brother’s new patron. She it was who Malfurion insisted was involved in madness that might prove
catastrophic to the entire night elf race.

But for the moment, all Illidan could think was,I have found my destiny at last …

THIRTEEN


He’s strong of mind, strong of soul, strong of body…said a powerful, aggressive voice in Rhonin’s head.

An admirable quality…at other times…replied a second, calmer voice otherwise identical to the first.

The truth will be known,the first insisted.I’ve never failed to make it so…

 Rhonin seemed to float outside his body, but where he floated, the wizard could not say. He felt as if he
hung between life and death, sleep and waking, darkness and light…nothing seemed quite right or
absolutely wrong.

No more!interjected a third voice somehow familiar to him.He has been through enough! Return him to
me…for now…

And suddenly Rhonin awoke in the glade of Cenarius.

 The sun hung high overhead, although whether that meant it was noon or merely a trick of the enchanted
area, the human could not say. Rhonin tried to rise, but, as before, his body would not obey him.

He heard movement and suddenly the sky filled with the antlered aspect of the forest lord.

“You’re resilient, Rhonin wizard,” Cenarius rumbled.

“You surprised one who is usually little surprised…and, more to the point, you held your secrets,
however foolish that may be in the long run.”

“Th-there’s nothing…I can…tell you.” It amazed Rhonin that his mouth even worked.

“That remains to be seen. We will know what happened to your companion and why you—who should
not be here—are.” The demigod’s visage softened. “But for now, I would have you rest. That much you
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




deserve.”

He waved his hand over Rhonin’s face…and the wizard slept.



Krasus himself would have liked to know the answer of exactly where he was. The cavern in which he
now awakened stirred no memories. He could not sense the presence of any other creature, especially
not one of his own kind, and that worried him. Had the watcher simply brought him here to be rid of him?
Did he expect Krasus to die here?

 The last was a very real danger. Pain and exhaustion continued to wrack the dragon mage’s lanky frame.
Krasus felt as if someone had ripped half of him away. His memory continued to fail him and he feared
that all his maladies would only grow worse with time…time he did not have.

 No! I will not give in to despair! Not me!Forcing himself to his feet, he peered around. For a human or
orc, the cavern would have been all but black, yet Krasus could make out its interior almost as well as if
the light of the sun shone within. He could see the huge, toothy stalactites and stalagmites, identify each
crack and fissure along the walls, and note even the tiny, blind lizards darting in and around the smallest
crevices.

Unfortunately, he could not make out any exit.

“I do not have time for these games!” he snapped at the empty air. His words echoed, seeming to grow
more self-mocking with each repetition.

He was missing something. Surely he had been put in this place for a reason…but what?

Then Krasus recalled the ways of his kind, ways that could, for those not dragons, be very cruel, indeed.
A grim smile played across his face.

 Straightening, the cowled mage slowly turned in a circle, eyes never blinking once. At the same time, he
began reciting a ritual greeting, speaking in a language older than the world. He repeated the greeting
three times, emphasizing the nuances of it as only one who had learned it from the very source of that
language could.

If this did not garner the attention of his captors, nothing would.

“It speaks the tongue of those who set the heavens and earth in place…” thundered someone. “Those
who brought us into being.”

“It must be one of us,” said another. “For it can surely not be one of them…”

“More must be known.”

 And suddenly from the empty air they materialized around the tiny figure…four gargantuan red dragons
seated around Krasus, their world-spanning wings folded in dignified fashion behind them. They eyed the
mage as if he were a small but tasty morsel of food.

If they thought to shock his supposedly primitive senses, then once again they had failed.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Definitely one of us,” murmured a heavier male, so noted by his larger crest. He snorted, sending puffs
of smoke Krasus’s way.

“And that isss why I brought him,” a smaller male bitterly remarked. “That…and hisss incessant
whining…”

 Perfectly at ease surrounded by the smoke, Krasus turned to the second male. “If you had the sense the
creators gave you, you would have known me for what I am and the urgency of my warning immediately!
We could have been spared the chaotic retreat from the realm of the forest lord.”

“I am ssstill not certain that I did not make a missstake in bringing you here!”

“And where is here?”

All four dragons leaned their heads back in slight astonishment. One of the two females now spoke. “If
you are one of us, little dragon, then you should know it as well as you know your nest…”

 Krasus cursed his addled memory. This could be only one location. “Then I am in the home caverns? I
am in the realm of beloved Alexstrasza, Queen of Life?”

“You did want to come here,” reminded the smaller male.

 “The question remains,” interjected the second female, younger, sleeker than the rest. “Do you come any
farther?”

“He comes as far as he desires,” intruded a new voice. “If he can but answer me a simple question.”

 The four leviathans and Krasus turned to where a fifth and obviously much more mature dragon
suddenly sat. In contrast to the two other males, this one had an impressive crest running from the top of
his head to down past his shoulders. He outweighed the second-largest dragon by several tons and his
claws alone were longer than the tiny figure standing in the midst of the behemoths.

 But despite his immense form and clear dominance, his eyes were sharp and full of wisdom. He more
than any of the others would decide the success of Krasus’s journey.

“If you are one of us despite that guise you wear, you must know who I am,” the dragon rumbled.

 The mage struggled with his tattered memories. Of course he knew who thiswas, but the name would
not come to him. His body tensed and his blood boiled as he fought the fog in his mind. Krasus knew that
if he did not speak to this giant by name, he would forever be rejected, forever be unable to warn his
kind of the possible danger his presence in this time represented.

 And then, with titanic effort, the name he should have known almost as well as his own sprang from his
lips. “You areTyranastrasz …Tyran the Scholarly One…consort to Alexstrasza!”

His pride at recalling both the name and title of the crimson giant must have been noticeable, for
Tyranastrasz let out a loud, almost human chuckle.

“You are indeed one of us, although I cannot place you yet! I have been given a name for you by the
one who brought you, but clearly it is wrong, as, among us, a name is granted to one and one alone.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“There is no mistake,” the dragon mage insisted. “And I can explain why.”

 Alexstrasza’s consort shook his mighty head. A hint of smoke escaped his nostrils. “The explanation you
have given, little one, has been relayed to us…and still it is found too astonishing to be true! What you
say falls into the realm of the Timeless One, Nozdormu, but even he would not be so careless as to do as
you have shown!”

 “He is addled, plain and simple,” said the watcher from the forest. “One of our own, I will grant, but
injured by accident or device.”

“Perhaps…” Tyranastrasz startled the other dragons then, lowering his head to the ground just before
Krasus.

 “But by knowing me you have answered my question! You are of the flight and thus have the right and
privilege to enter the innermost recesses of this lair! Come! I will take you to the one who will settle this
matter for us all, the one who knows all her flight as she knows all her children!She will recognize you
and, therefore, recognize the truth…”

“You will take me to Alexstrasza?”

“None other. Climb atop my neck, if you are able.”

 Even with his physical debilitation, Krasus readily managed to climb up. Not only did the thought of at
last finding help spur him on…but so did the simple opportunity to see his beloved once more, even if it
turned out she did not recognize him after all.

 The huge dragon carried Krasus through long-worn tunnels and chambers that should have been easily
recognizable but were not. Now and then, some hint of memory stirred, but never enough to satisfy the
mage. Even when they came across other dragons, none looked at all familiar to Krasus, who once had
known all those of the red flight.

 He wished that he had been awake when the watcher had flown him here. The landscape surrounding
the red flight’s domain might have sparked his memories. Besides, what more glorious sight could exist
than to see the dragons at the peak of their rule? To witness once more the tall, towering mountains, the
hundreds of great gaps in every cliff side, each of the latter an entrance into Alexstrasza’s realm. It had
been countless centuries since that time and Krasus had always mourned its passing, mourned the passing
of the Age of Dragons.

 Perhaps once I have convinced her…she will let me see the land of dragons from without one last
time…before she decides what to do with me.

 Tyranastrasz’s huge form moved effortlessly through the high, smooth tunnels. Krasus felt a twinge of
jealousy, for here he was, about to speak with his beloved, and forced to do so in this meager, mortal
body. He greatly loved the lesser races, enjoyed his time among them, but now, when he might be putting
his very existence on the line, Krasus would have preferred his true shape.

 A bright yet comforting glow suddenly appeared ahead of them. The reddish glow warmed Krasus
inside and out as they neared and made him think of childhood, of learning to grow up in the sky as well
as the earth. Fleeting memories of his life danced in his head and for the first time since his arrival in this
time period, the dragon mage almost felt himself.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




They came to the source of the magnificent glow, the mouth of a vast cave. Kneeling at the entrance,
Tyranastrasz lowered his head and rumbled, “With your permission, my love, my life.”

“Always,” returned a voice both delicate and all-powerful.

“Always for you.”

 Again Krasus felt a twinge of jealousy, but he knew that the one who spoke had loved him as much as
she loved the leviathan on which he rode. The Queen of Life had so much love not only for her consorts,
but for all her flight. In truth, she loved all creatures of the world, although that love would not stop her
from destroying those that in some way threatened the rest.

 And that was one thing he had purposely failed to mention to Rhonin. It had occurred early on to Krasus
that one way to avoid any further damage to the timeline might be to remove those objects that were not
where they were supposed to be.

To save history from going further awry, Alexstrasza might have to slay both him and the human wizard.

As he and Tyranastrasz entered, all thought of what might happen to him vanished as Krasus beheld the
one who would forever command his heart and soul.

 The wondrous glow which permeated every corner and crevice of the huge chamber radiated from the
shimmering red dragon herself. Alexstrasza was the most monumental of her kind, twice the size of the
titan upon which Krasus rode. Yet, despite that, an inherent gentleness could be sensed within the
massive frame, and even as the mage watched, the Queen of Life delicately moved a fragile egg from the
warmth of her body to a smoking vent, where she secured it safely.

 She was surrounded by eggs, eggs and more. The eggs were her latest clutch, a bountiful one. Each
stood only a foot in height—large by most standards, tiny when compared to the one who had laid them.
Krasus counted three dozen. Only about half would hatch and only half of those would survive to
adulthood, but that was the way of dragons—a harsh beginning heralding a life of glory and wonder.

 Framing the image was an array of flowering plants that should not have been able to exist under such
conditions and especially underground. There were wall-crawling creepers and sprawling carpets of
purple phlox. Golden daylilies decorated the area of the nest and roses and orchids lined the area where
Alexstrasza herself rested. Every plant bloomed strong, all fed by the glorious presence of the Queen of
Life.

 A crystal-clear stream flowed through the cavern, passing within reach of the female dragon’s maw
should she desire a sip at any time. The calm gurgle of the underground added to the tranquillity of the
scene.

 Krasus’s mount lowered his head so that his tiny rider could dismount. Eyes never leaving Alexstrasza,
the dragon mage stepped to the cavern floor, then went down on one knee.

“My queen…”

But she looked instead to the huge male who had brought Krasus here. “Tyranastrasz…would you leave
us alone for a time?”

Wordlessly the other behemoth backed out of the chamber. The Queen of Life shifted her gaze to
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Krasus, but said nothing. He knelt there before her, waiting for some sign of recognition yet receiving
none.

Unable to hold his silence any longer, Krasus gasped, “My queen, my world, can it be that you of all
beings do not know me?”

 She studied him through slitted lids before answering, “I know what I sense, and I know what I feel, and
because of both I have taken the story you have told the others under serious consideration. I have
already decided what must be done, but first, there is another who must be involved in this situation, for
his august opinion is as dear to me as my own—ahh! He comes now!”

 From another passage emerged an adult male only slightly smaller than Tyranastrasz. The newcomer
moved ponderously, as if each step was a heavy labor. Long, with faded crimson scales and weary eyes,
he at first appeared much older than Alexstrasza’s consort—until the mage realized that it was not age
that afflicted this dragon, but some unknown malady.

“You…summoned me, my Alexstrasza?”

And as Krasus heard the weakened giant speak, his world turned upside down again. He stumbled to
his feet, backing away from the male in open dismay.

 The Queen of Life was quick to notice his reaction even though her gaze for the most part remained on
the newcomer. “I asked your presence here, yes. Forgive me if the effort strains you too much.”

“There is…nothing I would not do for you, my love, my world.”

She indicated the mage, who still stood as if struck by lightning. “This is—what do you call yourself?”

“Kor—Krasus, my queen. Krasus…”

“Krasus? Krasus it is, then…” Her tone hinted of amusement at his sudden choice of names at this
moment. She turned again to the ill leviathan. “And this, Krasus, is one of my most beloved subjects, my
most recent consort, and one to whom I already greatly look for guidance. Being one of us, you may
have heard of him. His name isKorialstrasz…”



 Along the winding forest path they rode, Malfurion finally coming to believe that they had lost any
possible pursuit. He had chosen a route that led over rocks and other areas where the night saber’s paws
would leave few tracks, hoping that anyone following would soon ride off in the wrong direction. It meant
taking more time than usual to reach the point where he always met Cenarius, but Malfurion had decided
he needed to take that chance. He still did not know what the forest lord might think when he heard what
his pupil had done.

 As they neared the meeting place, Malfurion slowed his cat. In a bit more ragged fashion, Brox did the
same.

“We stopping?” grunted the orc, looking around and seeing nothing but more trees. “Here?”

“Almost. Only a few minutes more. The oak should soon be in sight.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Despite being so near his goal, the night elf actually grew more tense. One time he thought he felt eyes
watching them, but when he looked, he saw only the calm forest. The realization that his life had forever
changed continued to shake him. If the Moon Guard identified him, he risked being shunned, the most
dire punishment that could be inflicted upon a night elf other than death. His people would turn from him,
forever marking him as dead even though he still breathed. No one would interact with him or even meet
his gaze.

Not even Tyrande or Illidan.

 He had only compounded his crimes by leaving the hunters to face the demonic creature, something
Brox had called a “felbeast.” If the felbeast had hurt or slain any of the pursuit party, it would leave
Malfurion with no hope of ever mending his situation…and, to make matters worse, he would be
responsible for the loss of innocent lives. Yet, what else could he have done? The only other choice
would have involved turning Brox over to the Moon Guard…and eventually to Black Rook Hold.

 The oak he sought suddenly appeared ahead, giving Malfurion the opportunity to dwell no more, for the
time being, on his growing troubles. To anyone else, the tree would have simply been a tree, but to
Malfurion, it was an ancient sentinel, one of those who had served Cenarius longer than most. This tree,
tall, thick of trunk, and so very wrinkled of bark, had seen the rest of the forest grow over and over. It
had outlasted countless others of its kind and witnessed thousands of generations of fleeting animal lives.

 It knew Malfurion as he approached, the leaves of the wide crown audibly shaking despite a lack of
wind. This was the ancient speech of all trees and the night elf felt honored that Cenarius had taught him
early on how to understand some of it.

“Brox…I must ask a favor of you.”

“I owe you much. Ask it.”

 Pointing at the oak, Malfurion said, “Dismount and go to that tree. Touch the palm of your hand to the
trunk where you see that gnarled area of bark.”

 The orc clearly had no idea why this would be required of him, but as it had been Malfurion who had
requested it, he immediately obeyed. Handing the reins to the night elf, Brox trudged over to the sentinel.
The huge warrior peered closely at the trunk, then planted one meaty hand where Malfurion had
indicated.

Twisting his head so as to look back at his companion, the orc rumbled, “What do I do n—”

He let out a snarl of surprise as his hand sank into the bark as if the latter had become mud. Brox almost
pulled the appendage free, but Malfurion quickly ordered him to remain still.

“Do nothing at all! Simply stand there! It’s learning of you! Your hand will tingle, but that’s all!”

 What he did not go on to explain was that the tingling meant that tiny root tendrils from within the
guardian now penetrated the orc’s flesh. The oak was learning of Brox by becoming, however briefly, a
part of him. Plant and animal meshed together. The oak would forever recall Brox, no matter how many
centuries might pass.

 The vein in the orc’s neck throbbed madly, a sign of his growing anxiety. To his credit, Brox stood as
still as the oak, his eyes ever fixed on where his hand had vanished.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Suddenly he fell back a step, the appendage released as abruptly as it had been taken. Brox quickly
flexed the hand, testing the fingers and possibly even counting them.

“The way is open to us now,” Malfurion proclaimed.

 With Brox mounted once more, the night elf led the way past the oak. As he rode by the sentinel,
Malfurion sensed a subtle change in the air. Had they not been given permission, he and Brox could have
ridden on forever and never found the glade. Only those Cenarius permitted to come to him would find
the path beyond the sentinels.

 The differences in their surroundings became more noticeable as the pair journeyed on. A refreshing
breeze cooled both. Birds hopped about and sang from the trees surrounding them. The trees themselves
shook merrily, greeting the night elf—who could understand them—especially. A feeling of comfort
embraced both to the point that Malfurion even caught a hint of a smile on the orc’s rough visage.

 A barrier of dense woods abruptly barred their way. Brox looked to Malfurion, who indicated that they
should now dismount. After both had done so, Malfurion guided the orc along a narrow foot trail not at
first visible between the trees. This they followed for several minutes before stepping out into a richly lit
open area filled with tall, soft grass and high, brightly petaled flowers.

The glade of the forest lord.

But the figure encircled by a ring of flowers in the midst of the glade could never have been mistaken for
Cenarius. Seated in the ring’s center, he leapt up at sight of the pair, his odd eyes especially lingering on
Brox—as if he knew exactly what the orc was.

“You…” the stranger muttered at the green-skinned warrior. “You shouldn’t be here…”

Brox mistook the thrust of his remark. “I come with him, wizard…and need no permission of yours.”

 But the fire-haired figure—to what race he belonged, Malfurion could not yet say—shook his head and
started toward the orc, only to hesitate at the edge of the ring. With a curious glance at the
flowers—which in turn looked as if they now studied him—the hooded stranger blurted, “This isn’t your
time! You shouldn’t exist here at all!”

 He raised his hand in what seemed a menacing posture to the night elf. Recalling Brox’s use of the word
“wizard,” Malfurion quickly prepared a spell of his own, suspecting that Cenarius’s druidic teachings
would avail him better in this sacred place than the stranger’s own magic.

 Suddenly the sky thundered and the ever-present light breeze became an intense gale. Brox and
Malfurion were pushed back a few feet and the wizard was almost thrust into the air, so hard was he
forced away from the edge of the ring.

“There will be none of this in my sanctum!” declared the voice of Cenarius.

 A short distance to the side of the flower barrier, the harsh wind picked up leaves, dirt, and other loose
bits of the forest, throwing them around and creating a whirlwind. The small twister grew swiftly in size
and intensity while the leaves and other pieces solidified into a towering figure.

And as the air quieted again, Cenarius stepped forward to survey Malfurion and the others.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Of you I expect better,” he quietly remarked to the night elf. “But theseare strange times.” He eyed
Brox. “And growing stranger with each passing hour, it seems.”

The orc growled defiantly at Cenarius. Malfurion quickly silenced him. “This is the lord of the forest, the
demigod Cenarius…the one to whom I said I would bring you, Brox.”

Brox eased somewhat, then pointed at the hooded wizard. “And that one? Is he another demigod?”

 “He’s part of a puzzle,” Cenarius replied. “and you look to be another piece of the same one.” To the
figure in the ring, he added, “You recognized this newcomer, friend Rhonin.”

The robed spellcaster said nothing.

 The demigod shook his head in clear disappointment. “I mean you no harm, Rhonin, but too much has
come about that I and the others find disturbing and out of place. You and your missing companion and
now this one—”

“His name is Brox,” Malfurion offered.

“This one called Brox,” Cenarius amended. “Another being the likes of which even I have never seen.
And how does Brox come to be here, my student? I suspect that there is a tale to tell, a disturbing one.”

 With a nod, the night elf immediately went into the story of his rescue of the orc, in the process laying
any possible blame at his feet alone. Of Tyrande and Illidan, he scarcely even spoke.

But Cenarius, far older and wiser than his pupil, read much of the truth. “I said that the destinies of your
brother and you would take different roads. I believe that fork has now come, whether you know it or
not.”

“I don’t understand—”

 “It is a talk for another time.” The demigod suddenly stepped past Malfurion and Brox, staring into the
forest. Around the glade, the crowns of the trees suddenly shook with great agitation. “And time is not
something we have at the moment. You had better prepare yourselves…you included, friend Rhonin.”

“Me?” blurted the wizard.

“What is it, shan’do?” Malfurion could sense the trees’ fury.

 The sunlit sky filled with thunder and the wind picked up again. A shadow fell over Cenarius’s majestic
countenance, a dark shadow that made even Malfurion wary of his teacher.

 The forest lord stretched forth his arms, almost as if to embrace something that no one else could see.
“We are about to be attacked…and I fear even I may not be able to protect all of you.”



The lone felbeast had followed the trail as no other animal or rider could, smelling not the scent of its
quarry, but rather the magic the latter commanded. As much as blood and flesh, the energy that was
magic and sorcery was its sustenance…and like any of its kind, the felbeast was always ravenous.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Mortal creatures would not have noticed the magic of the oak sentinel, but the demon did. It seized upon
this unmoving prey with eagerness, the dire tentacles quickly thrusting out and striking the thick trunk.

The oak did its best to combat this unexpected foe. Roots sought to entangle the paws, but the felbeast
dodged them. Loose branches dropped from high above, battering the monster’s thick hide futilely.

 When that did not work, from the oak came a peculiar keening sound, one that picked up in intensity. It
soon reached a level inaudible to most creatures.

 But for the felbeast, the sound then became agony. The demon whined and tried to bury its head, but at
the same time it refused to release its hold on the guardian. The two wills struggled…

 In the end, the felbeast proved the stronger. Increasingly drained of its inherent magic, the oak withered
more and more, finally dying as the Moon Guard had, slain in its duty after thousands of years of
successfully protecting the way.

 The felbeast shook its head, then sniffed the air before it. The tentacles eagerly stretched forth, but the
demon kept its position. It had grown as it devoured the oak’s ancient magic and now stood almost
twice as tall as before.

 Then, metamorphosis took place. A deep, black radiance surrounded the felbeast, completely
enveloping the demon. Within it, the felbeast twisted in various directions, as if trying to escape from
itself.

 And the more it tried, the more it succeeded. One head, two heads, three, four…then five. Each head
strained harder, pulling and pulling. The heads were followed by thick necks, brawny shoulders, then
muscular torsos and legs.

 Fueled by the rich magic of the ancient guardian, the one felbeast became a pack. The great effort
momentarily weakened each of the demons, but within seconds they recouped. The knowledge that
ahead lay more sustenance, more power, urged them on.

As one, the felbeasts charged toward the glade.

FOURTEEN


You are a true servant,the great one told Lord Xavius.Your rewards will be endless…all you desire I
will grant you…anything…anyone…

Artificial eyes unblinking, the night elf knelt on one knee before the fiery portal, drinking in the god’s
many glorious promises. He was the most favored of the great one’s new minions, one to whom
miraculous powers would be granted once the way had been opened.

And the more the Highborne failed to accomplish the last, the longer the god’s arrival was delayed, the
more the counselor’s frustration grew.

 His frustration was shared by two others. One of those was Queen Azshara, who longed as much as he
for the day when all the imperfect would be eradicated from the world, leaving only the night elves—and
only the best of that race—to rule the paradise that would follow. She did not know, of course, that, in
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




his wisdom, the great one would make her Xavius’s consort, but the counselor expected any protests to
fade once their wondrous god informed her.

 The other frustrated with the utter lack of success was the towering Hakkar. Ever flanked by two
felbeasts, the Houndmaster marched around the Highborne sorcerers, pointing out the flaws in their
casting and adding his own might whenever possible.

 Yet even with the addition of his arcane knowledge, only now had they at last achieved some minor
triumph. Now at last Hakkar and his pets no longer stood alone among the night elves. Now there were
three others, horned giants with crimson visages that some found horrific but that Lord Xavius could only
admire. At least nine feet tall, they loomed over the Highborne, who themselves were more than seven
feet in height.

 These were anointed champions of the god, celestial warriors whose only purpose was to do his bidding
regardless of the cost to them. Each was roughly nine feet in height and although built oddly thin, the
bronze-armored figures had no difficulty wielding the massive, oblong shields and flaming maces. They
obeyed to the letter any command given them and treated the counselor with as much respect as they did
Hakkar.

And soon there would be more. Even as Xavius stepped back, he saw the portal flash. It bloomed,
growing to fill the pattern over which it hovered, swelling until—

 Through it came another of the Fel Guard, as Hakkar called these worthy fighters. The moment he
entered the mortal plane, the newcomer bowed his fearsome head toward the Houndmaster, then toward
Xavius.

 Hakkar signaled for the warrior to join his predecessors. Turning to Xavius, the Houndmaster indicated
the four. “The great one fulfills his first promise to you, lord night elf! Command them! They are yoursss
to do as you pleassse!”

Xavius knew exactly what to do with them. “As they have been a gift to me, so they will best serve as a
gift for the queen! I shall make them honored bodyguards for Azshara!”

 The Houndmaster nodded approvingly. They both knew the value of pleasing the queen of the night
elves, just as both knew the counselor’s secret desire. “You’d do bessst to bring sssuch a present to her
yourssself, lord night elf! The work will continue while you are gone, I will sssee to that!”

 The notion of making the presentation himself greatly appealed to Xavius. With a bow to Hakkar, the
counselor snapped his fingers and led the four gigantic warriors out of the tower chamber. He knew
exactly where he would find Azshara at this time.

And as he departed, the Houndmaster, stony eyes flaring brightly, watched the night elf intently.



Although her lord counselor slept very little—almost not at all of late—as queen of the realm, Azshara
had the right and privilege to rest as she pleased. After all, she had to be perfect in every way, especially
where her beauty was concerned. Therefore, the ruler of the night elves generally slept through the entire
day, avoiding completely the harsh, burning sunlight.

Thus, Azshara did not take well at first to the meek entrance of one of her attendants. The latter fell
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




quickly onto both knees before the rounded edge of the queen’s room-spanning, down bed, the young
female almost hiding behind the gossamer curtains that encircled it.

With a languid hand, the Light of Lights indicated that her servant could speak.

“Mistress, forgive this humble one, but the lord counselor requests an audience with yourself, stating he
has brought something of interest to you.”

There was nothing which Azshara could imagine desiring at the moment that would make her leave her
bed, not even for the counselor. Silver hair draping her pillows, she pursed her lips as she pondered
whether or not to send Xavius on his way.

 “Make him wait five minutes,” she finally purred, already artfully positioning herself. Well aware of
Xavius’s tastes, the queen knew best how to use them to her advantage. The counselor might think
himself superior to his monarch, but as a female, she was superior to any male. “Then grant him
entrance.”

 The attendant did not question her mistress’s decision. Azshara watched her depart through slitted eyes,
then stretched gracefully, already planning her encounter with her chief advisor.



 The young servant nervously returned…but only after Xavius had already been waiting for several
minutes. Keeping her head low—and thus her expression all but hidden—she ushered the counselor
through the thick, skillfully carved oak doors leading into the queen’s personal chambers.

Only a handful of times had he dared see her in this, her most private sanctum. Xavius knew something
of what to expect; Azshara would appear flawless and seductive, all without seeming to notice this
herself. It was the game she played and played well, but he was prepared. He was her superior.

 Sure enough, the queen of the night elves lay in repose, one arm behind her head, two silken-clad
attendants kneeling nearby. A silver stand with an emerald flask of wine stood within reach of the queen
and one half-filled goblet gave evidence to her having already sampled its rich bounty.

 “My darling lord counselor,” she breathed. “You must have something dreadfully important to say to me
to request an audience at such an hour.” The thin, glistening sheet framed her exquisite shape. “I’ve
therefore tried to accommodate you as best I can.”

 Fist to his heart, he went down on one knee. Gazing at the white, marble floor, Lord Xavius replied,
“Light of Lights, Cherished Heart of the People, I am grateful for this time given me. I apologize for
disturbing you now, but I have brought with me a most interesting gift, a gift truly worthy of the queen of
the night elves, the queen of the world. If I may summon it?”

 He glanced up and saw that he had her attention. Her veiled eyes failed to hide both her growing
curiosity and anticipation. Azshara shifted on her bed, the sheet ever clinging just so to her torso.

“You pique my interest, my dear Xavius. I grant you the honor of presenting me with your gift.”

Rising again, the tall counselor turned to the doors and snapped his fingers.

There was a gasp from the outer room and two more attendants rushed inside, fleeing to the comfort and
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




protection of their mistress. Frowning, Azshara sat up, almost but not quite letting the sheet slip.

 The four fearsome warriors marched two abreast into the queen’s sanctum, so tall that they had to duck
through the doorway to avoid scraping the top with their horns. They spread out as they entered, shields
before their armored bodies and maces held high in salute.

Azshara leaned forward, utterly fascinated. “What are they?”

“They areyours, my queen! The protection of your life is their duty, their only reason to exist! Behold,
your majesty, your new bodyguards!”

 He saw that he had pleased her well. There would be more and more celestial warriors sent through by
the great one, but these were the very first and they were to behers. That made all the difference.

 “How wonderful,” she murmured, stretching one arm out to a servant. The young maiden immediately
reached for Azshara’s gown. The other attendants created a wall, obscuring all but the queen’s head
from the view of Xavius and the Fel Guard. “How very fitting. Your gift is acceptable.”

“I am pleased thatyou are pleased.”

 The servants stepped back. Now clad in a translucent, frost-colored gown, Queen Azshara rose from
her bed. With calculated steps, she walked up to the towering figures and inspected each, her gown
trailing along over the marble floor. For their part, the Fel Guard stood so motionless that they might have
been mistaken for statuary.

“Are there more?”

“There will be, eventually.”

She frowned. “So few after so long? How will the great one himself come through if we cannot manage
more than a few of his host at a time?”

 “We draw from the Well as best we can, oh glorious queen. There are contradictory currents, outside
reactions, the influence of other spellcasters elsewhere—”

 Like a child reaching out to touch a new toy, Azshara let her fingers just graze the blazing armor of one
of her new bodyguards. There was a slight hiss. The queen pulled back her fingers, an oddly pleased
expression crossing her perfect features. “Then why haven’t you cut off the Well from such outside
interference? It would make your task then much simpler.”

 Lord Xavius opened his mouth to explain why the intricacies of the Highborne spellwork would not
permit such—then realized that he had no good answer. Theoretically, Azshara’s suggestion had
tremendous merit.

“Truly you are the queen,” he finally commented.

 Her golden eyes seized his own. “Of course I am, my darling counselor. There has only ever been, only
ever will be…oneAzshara.”

He nodded wordlessly.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




She strode back to the bed, seating herself delicately on the edge. “If there is nothing else?”

“Nothing…for now, my queen.”

“Then, I think you must have more work to do now.”

 Dismissed, Lord Xavius bowed low to his monarch, then backed out of her chambers. He did not take
any umbrage at her regal tone or attitude, did not even grow more than slightly annoyed at her mastery of
the situation.

Cut off the Well from interference…

It could be done. If not by the Highborne alone, then with Hakkar’s good guidance. Surely the
Houndmaster would know best how to do it. With use of the Well limited only to those of the palace, the
power the Highborne drew from it would be more easily manipulated, more easily transformed…

Small matter what havoc cutting off the Well would wreak upon therest of their people.

***

“He is definitely one of us…somehow I know this as well as I know myself.”

The words were perhaps the most ironic ever spoken in history, or so Krasus believed at that moment.
They had, after all, been uttered by the dragon Korialstrasz, the newest of Alexstrasza’s consorts.

And also Krasus’s younger self.

Korialstrasz did not recognize himself, at least, not consciously. However, the fact that Alexstrasza had
not informed him of the newcomer’s true identity raised many questions.

 One question possibly related to the others had to do with the male dragon’s present condition. While it
was true that Krasus’s memory was full of holes, he doubted that he could have forgotten such an illness
as his earlier incarnation seemed to be suffering at this moment. Korialstrasz looked far older, far more
feeble than his age. He looked older than Tyran, who was centuries Korialstrasz’s senior.

“What else do you say about him?” Alexstrasza asked her mate.

 The other dragon squinted at Krasus. “He is older, very old, in fact.” Korialstrasz tilted his head.
“Something in his eyes…his eyes…”

“What about them?”

 The huge male drew back. “Forgive me! My head is addled! I am not worthy of being in your presence
at this time! I should withdraw…”

But she would not yet let him go. “Look at him, my mate. I ask you this one last thing; with what little
you know, would you trust the word of this one?”

“I…yes, my Alexstrasza…I…would.”

Suddenly, a curious thing happened to Krasus. As the dragons continued conversing about him, he
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




began to feel stronger, stronger than he had ever felt since first arriving in the past. Not quite as strong as
he should have been, but at least much closer to normal.

 And it was not him alone. He also noted that, despite words to the contrary, his younger self also started
looking more fit. A bit of color had returned to the scales and Korialstrasz moved with somewhat better
ease than earlier. His words did not come out in gasps anymore.

Alexstrasza nodded in response to her consort’s answer, then said, “So I wanted to hear. It tells me
much that you feel so.”

 “Is there more that you wish of me? My strength is better; being with you, being of assistance to you, has
clearly heartened me.”

 The smile that Krasus knew so well graced the dragon queen’s reptilian countenance. “Always the
poetic one, my loving Korialstrasz! Yes…I wish much more of you. I know it will be difficult, but I must
request your presence when I bring this one before the other Aspects.”

She succeeded in stunning both versions of Krasus. The young incarnation spoke first, echoing the
older’s surprise. “You would convene a gathering of the Five? Over this one? But why?”

 “Because he has told a story that they must hear, a story I tell you now…and you may choose again
afterward to answer whether you trust him or not.”

So at last his earlier self would know the truth. Krasus readied himself for the other’s shock.

 But as he had startled Rhonin by relating a tale that left out not only part of the truth but also his very
identity, so now did the dragon queen tell much the same. She spoke of the disruption and all else Krasus
had told the watcher, but of the mage’s true identity, Alexstrasza said nothing. To her consort, Krasus
was merely another of the red flight, one whose mind had been torn asunder by the powerful forces that
had assailed it.

 Krasus himself made no attempt to reveal himself. This was Alexstrasza—his life, his love. Advisor to
her he might be, but she still wielded the wisdom of an Aspect. If she felt that his younger self should
remain ignorant…then who was he to disagree?

“An astonishing tale,” Korialstrasz murmured, looking and sounding even better. “I would have trouble
believing it from any mouth but your own, my queen…”

“So your trust of him has faded?”

The eyes of the younger self met the eyes of the older. Even if Korialstrasz did not recognize himself, he
must have recognized still the kindred spirit. “No…no, my trust has not faded. If you think he should be
brought before the others…I must acquiesce.”

“Will you then fly with me?”

“But I am not one of the Five…I am merely me.”

The Queen of Life laughed lightly, a musical sound coming as it did from a dragon. “And thus you are as
worthy as any of us.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Korialstrasz was clearly flattered. “If I am as strong as I now feel, I will gladly fly at your side and stand
before the other Aspects.”

“Thank you…that is all I ask.” She leaned forward and briefly nuzzled heads with him.

Krasus felt a peculiar jealousy. Here he was, watching himself be intimate with his mate, yet it was not
him. He wished that for just one moment he could have changed places with Korialstrasz, that for just this
one particular moment, he could be his true self again.

With a last lingering glance, the male turned and left the chamber. As the tip of Korialstrasz’s tail
vanished into the passage, the mage suddenly felt light-headed. The weakness returned in a rush, causing
him to teeter.

He would have fallen, but suddenly a massive, scaled appendage wrapped softly around
him—Alexstrasza’s own tail come to his rescue.

“The two parts made whole…at least for a time.”

“I don’t—” His head swam.

“You felt much better in his presence, did you not?”

“Y-yes.”

 “Would I were Nozdormu at this moment. He would understand this more. I think…I think that in the
earthly realm, no creature can coexist with himself. I believe you and he, being one, draw off the same life
force. When you are far from each other, you are halved, but when you are so very near, as just before,
the draining is not so terrible. You help each other.”

 Nestled safely, Krasus recovered enough to think over her words. “So that is why you requested him to
come with.”

“Your story must be told and it will be told better if he is near. As to your unspoken question—why I
did not reveal to him the truth—that is because of what may have to be done to salvage matters.”

 Her tone grew grim as she said the last, verifying for Krasus his own suspicions. “You think it may come
to the point where one of us must be removed from this period…even if that meansdeath.”

The leviathan nodded reluctantly. “I am afraid so, my love.”

“I accept the choice. I knew it from the beginning.”

“Then there is only one more matter to discuss before I reach out to the others…and that is what must
be done with this other who came with you.”

Although inside he asked Rhonin to forgive him, Krasus did not hesitate to reply. “If it must be done, he
will share my fate. He, too, has those he cares about. He would give his life for them.”

 The Queen of Life nodded. “As I trusted your counsel when it came to you, so I trust your counsel when
it comes to him. Should the other decide so, he will also be removed.” The dragon’s expression softened.
“Know that I will be saddened by this forever.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Take no blame unto yourself, my queen, my heart.”

“I must contact the others. It would be best for you if you waited for me here. In this place you will find
yourself not so weary.”

“I am honored, my queen.”

“Honored? You are myconsort. I could do no less.”

With her tail she guided him to an area of the nest near the stream. Krasus settled into a natural
depression that acted for him like a huge chair.

As the dragon queen moved to the passage, she paused and, with a trace of remorse, added, “I hope
you will be comfortable among the eggs.”

“I will be careful not to touch any.” Krasus understood the value of any egg.

“I am certain you will, my love…especially knowing that they are yours.”

 She left him wordless. As the crimson giant disappeared, Krasus glanced from one egg to another. As
consort, he had, of course, bred with his mate. Many of his children had grown to adulthood, bringing
pride to the flight.

 He slammed his fist against the rock, ignoring the pain the foolish act sent through him. For all he had
revealed to his beloved Alexstrasza, he had kept from her several important facts. Most immediate was
the coming of the Burning Legion. Krasus feared that even his queen, wise as she was, would be tempted
to play with history…and that might create a more horrifying disaster.

 Yet, even worse than that, Krasus had been unable to tell her about the future of their own kind, a future
in which only a few would survive…a future in which most of the hatchlings of this and successive
clutches would perish before they ever had the opportunity to reach full maturity.

 A future in which the Queen of Life herself would become a slave, her children the war dogs of a
conquering race.

FIFTEEN


 The felbeasts charged through the enchanted forest, their snouts raised high as the scent of magic
increased. Their hunger and their mission urged them on, the huge hounds snarling their impatience.

 But as one leapt over a fallen trunk, limbs from another tree nearby bent down and entangled its legs. A
second felbeast racing along a path found its paws sinking into suddenly muddy earth. A third collided
with a sprouting bush filled with razor-sharp brambles that pricked even the demon’s hard flesh and
brought it immense agony.

 The forest came alive, defending itself and its master. The charge of the five monsters faltered…but did
not fail. Huge claws tore at the tangling branches, ripping them from trunks. Another felbeast aided the
one trapped in the mire, dragging its comrade to solid ground before moving on. Hunger and fury enabled
the one caught in the sharp brambles to burrow through even though it meant bleeding cuts everywhere.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




The hunters would not be denied their prey…



“Shan’do! What is it?”

 The demigod glanced down at his pupil, no recriminations in his fiery gaze. “The hounds of which you
spoke…they have followed you here.”

“Followed? Impossible! There was only one left and it—”

Brox interrupted, his rumbling voice offering no comfort.

“The felbeasts…they are dark magic. Where there was one…there can be more if they’re able to feed
well…this I saw…”

“A good friend and able guardian fell to one,” Cenarius commented, attention once more on the thick
woods ahead of them. “He bore within him magic most ancient, most powerful. It only served to make
him more susceptible to their evil.”

The orc nodded. “Then the one is now many.” Brox instinctively reached behind his back, but his
beloved war ax did not await him there. “I’ve nothing to fight with.”

“You will be armed. Quickly find a fallen limb the length of your favored weapon. Malfurion, attend me.”

Brox swiftly did as commanded. He brought to the demigod and the night elf a massive branch, which
Cenarius then had him place before Malfurion.

“Kneel before it, my student. You, too, warrior. Malfurion, place your hands upon the branch, then let
him place his palms atop your hands.” When they had done this, the forest lord commanded, “Now,
warrior, clear your mind of all but the weapon. Thinkonly of it! Time is of the essence. Malfurion, you
must open your mind and let his thoughts flow to yours. I will guide you more when that is done.”

 The night elf did as he was told. He cleared his thoughts as his shan’do had early on taught him, then
reached out to link himself to the orc.

 Instantly a primal force bullied its way into his mind. Malfurion almost rejected it, but then calmed. He
accepted Brox’s thoughts and let the image of what the warrior wanted take shape.

You see the weapon, my student?came Cenarius’s voice.You sense the feel of it, the lines of its forming?

 Malfurion did. He also felt the orc’s relationship to the weapon, how it was more than simply a tool, but
also a true extension of the warrior.

 Guide your hands over the wood, ever keeping the image in your head. Follow the natural grain and turn
it to the shape desired…

 With Brox’s hands atop his own, the night elf began running his fingers along the branch. As he did, he
felt it soften at his touch, then shift in form.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 And under his guidance materialized a thick-bladed ax composed entirely of oak. Malfurion watched it
shape, felt the satisfaction of creating a good solid weapon like the one he had lost when captured by the
night elves—

He tensed. Those were theorc’s emotions, not his. Quickly thrusting them back, Malfurion concentrated
on the final bits—curvature of the handle, the sharpness of the blade.

The task is done,interjected Cenarius.Return to me…

The night elf and the orc pulled away. For a brief moment, they stared into each other’s eyes. Malfurion
wondered if Brox had experienced some of his own thoughts, but the green-skinned creature gave no
hint of such a thing happening.

Between them lay a smoothly polished re-creation of that which Brox desired, though even the night elf
wondered how the weapon could last more than one or two strikes.

 In answer, the forest lord extended his hands—and suddenly the ax lay across them. Cenarius studied
the weapon with his golden eyes.

 “Let it always swing true, always protect its master. Let it be wielded well for the cause of life and
justice. Let it add to the strength of its master and, in turn, let him strengthen it.”

And as he spoke, a blue radiance surrounded the ax. The light sank into the wood, adding a sheen to
Malfurion’s creation.

The demigod offered the ax to the orc. “It is yours. It will serve you well.”

Eyes wide, the graying orc took the gift, then swung it back and forth, testing the quality. “The
balance…perfect! The feel…like a part of my arm! But it will crack—”

 “No,” interjected the forest lord. “In addition to Malfurion’s work, it now has my blessing. You’ll find it
stronger than any mortal-forged ax. You may trust me on that.”

 As for the night elf, he did not reach for a weapon nor did he desire one such as Brox now carried.
Despite knowing that the demonic beasts fed off of magic and sorcery, he still understood that his
chances were better with spells than with some weapon with which he had only moderate skill. He
already had some ideas as to how to use his talent without it becoming the cause of his defeat.

And so the three faced the coming foe.



 The nightmares of Rhonin’s recent past had come back to haunt him, but now they did so in the flesh.
Felbeasts, the harbingers of the Burning Legion, were already here in the mortal plane. Could the endless
ranks of horned, fiery demon warriors be far behind?

Krasus had put into the red-haired wizard’s mind the fear of what would happen if either interacted
more with the past. What might seem a victory could spell the end of the future as they knew it. To best
preserve the lives of those he loved, it behooved Rhonin to do nothing at all.

But as the first felbeast leapt into the glade, such noble notions instantly vanished from his thoughts.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Thunder crashed around the demigod as he stepped up to meet the felbeasts. His stomping hooves
shook the ground and even caused the earth to crack open slightly. He swung his hands together and
lightning flashed as they met.

 And from those hands, Cenarius unleashed what seemed a miniature sun at the foremost demon.
Perhaps the demigod only tested his adversary or somehow underestimated the resilience of it, for the
felbeast thrust forth both tentacles and, instead of the sunburst striking dead its target…the demon’s
hungry appendagesabsorbed Cenarius’s spell with ease.

The felbeast hesitated, shimmered…and suddenly, where there had been one, there were now two.

 They leapt upon the stag lord, clawing at him and trying to drain him of his great magic. With one hand
Cenarius held the first at bay, the demon wriggling madly and snapping at the arm that kept him high in
the air. But the other clamped itself onto his shoulder, the tentacles seeking the demigod’s flesh. The three
combatants fell back in a frenzy of movement.

 They never did that!Rhonin himself had not faced felbeasts, but he had studied their corpses and read all
the information gathered about them. He had heard the few rare tales of the hounds multiplying
themselves, but only after gorging on magic and even then the process had been said to be slow, difficult.
It must be the ancient magic that the demigod and the forest itself wield…it’s so rich and powerful that
the creatures are made even more terrible by it…

He shivered, knowing that magic had always been his best tool. He could fight by hand, yes, but he had
no weapon and doubted that Cenarius could give him one now. Besides, against these creatures, his skill
with a sword would be more than lacking. Rhonin needed his magic.

 When Cenarius had first brought Krasus and him to the ring, Rhonin had found himself unable to cast
any spell. The forest lord had placed an enchantment on his mind, keeping the might of both his “guests”
in check. However, Rhonin had felt that enchantment removed from him the second that Cenarius had
realized the danger to them all. The demigod meant no true harm to the wizard; he had acted only out of
concern for his forest and his world.

But even if he disobeyed Krasus’s recommendation, Rhonin wondered just how much good having his
powers back would do him. Surely the demons would be most eager for his magic, just as they had
hungered for the magic of so many wizards sucked dry in the future war against the legion.

 The felbeasts pressed their foes, in the process drawing nearer and nearer to Rhonin. His hands curled
into fists and words of power stood ready on his tongue.

And yet…still he did nothing.



 As Cenarius and the twin felbeasts met, two more charged at Brox. The huge warrior met the creatures
head on with a war cry that made one demon falter slightly. The orc used that hesitation to his advantage,
swinging hard at his adversary.

 The enchanted ax buried itself deep in the forepaw of the felbeast, severing three clawed toes as easily
as if the orc had cut through air. The foul greenish fluid that passed for blood in many of the demons
spilled over the grass, burning the blades like acid.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The injured felbeast let out a yelp and stumbled to the side, but its comrade continued its charge,
throwing itself upon the orc. Brox, trying to recover from his swing, barely saved himself by using the
bottom end of the ax shaft. He drove the end into the chest of the leaping behemoth.

 A monstrous gasp escaped the felbeast, but did little to slow its momentum. It fell upon Brox, nearly
crushing him under its massive form.

 As for the night elf, the monster he faced eagerly reached for him with its vampiric tentacles. Malfurion
concentrated, trying to think as Cenarius would think, drawing upon what he had learned from the
demigod about seeing nature as both his weapon and his comrade.

 Recalling the demigod’s own arrival, Malfurion created from the ever-present wind a roaring twister that
immediately surrounded the monstrous felbeast. The sinewy, gaping tentacles swung wildly about,
seeking the magic, but Malfurion’s spell had accented only the inherent forces of the wind and so the
demon found little upon which to drain.

 With a wave of his right hand, the night elf then asked of the surrounding trees the gift of whatever spare
leaves they had to offer. He sought the strongest only, but he needed them in great numbers and quickly.

And from the crowns of the towering guardians descended hundreds, whatever each could give.
Malfurion immediately used another breeze to guide the leaves toward the whirlwind.

Within it, the felbeast pushed forward, relentlessly closing on its intended prey. The twister matched each
determined step, ever keeping the demon at its center.

The leaves poured into the whirlwind, spinning around faster and faster and increasing in number rapidly.
At first the felbeast paid them no mind, for what were a few bits of refuse in the wind to a powerful fiend,
but then the first sharp edge of a leaf sliced across its muzzle, drawing blood.

 The enraged demon batted at the offending leaf, only to have several more cut it successively on its paw,
its legs, and its torso. The wind now a hundred times more intense, the sharp edges of each soaring leaf
became like well-honed blades, cutting and slashing wherever they touched the felbeast. Greenish ooze
spilled over the demon’s body, drenching its hide and even obscuring its vision.

 Cenarius and the beasts who had attacked him now fought far from the rest. The cries of the demons
were well matched by the majestic roar of the forest lord. He seized the foreleg of the felbeast that had
attached itself to him and with a single twist snapped the bone. The demon howled and its tentacles
released their hold, flailing about in response to its pain.

 Momentarily rid of one menace, Cenarius focused on the other. His countenance took on a dark wonder
and his eyes blazed in fury. Suddenly, there burst from them a spark of light that enveloped the demon
held at bay. The slavering creature’s tentacles greedily sought that light, drinking it in eagerly and wanting
even more.

 But this was not a wizard or sorcerer from which it sought to siphon magic. Now surrounded by a
fearsome blue aura, Cenarius pressed with his attack, feeding his foe and giving it what it desired…but
much too quickly and in abundance so great that even the demon could not take it all in.

The felbeast swelled, blowing up like a quickly filled water sack. Briefly it seemed as if about to
divide…but the forces already ingested by it were more than it could handle.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




The monstrous houndexploded, gobbets of stench-ridden flesh raining down upon the glade.



 Thus far, Rhonin had been fortunate. No felbeast had come for him. He remained at the center of the
ring, hoping that its power would keep him from having to decide whether or not to use his own abilities.

 Rhonin watched Brox fend off the creature that had nearly crushed the orc. The veteran warrior
appeared to have his struggle well in hand despite two foes. But as he continued to observe Brox, a
terrible notion filled the human mage. If he and Krasus could not be returned to their time, Rhonin had
understood that it might be best if both were slain quickly, the sooner to prevent whatever further
alterations they might make to history. What neither had counted on, however, was a single orc warrior
also being thrown into this era.

 And as he stared at Brox’s back, Rhonin began to contemplate a different sort of spell. In the midst of
the struggle, it might go unnoticed by the others and would eliminate another danger to the timeline.
Krasus would have told him he was making the right decision, that, more than even the demons, Brox
was a danger to the very existence of the world.

 But his hand faltered, the spell forming in his mind pushed back into the darkest recesses. Rhonin felt
ashamed. Brox’s people had become valuable allies and this orc now fought to save not only himself but
others,including the wizard.

 Everything Krasus had said urged Rhonin to deal quickly with Brox and worry about the consequences
later, but the more he watched the orc battle beside the night elf—another allied race in the future—the
more Rhonin regretted his moment of insanity. What he had contemplated seemed to him as horrible as
the atrocities perpetrated in his time by the Burning Legion.

But Rhonin could no longer stand and do nothing…

“I’m sorry, Krasus,” he muttered, calling up a new spell. “I’m truly sorry.”

 Taking a deep breath, the hooded mage stared from under his brow at one of the felbeasts in combat
with the orc. He recalled the incantations that had helped him against the Scourge and other inhuman
servants of the Legion. It would have to be done in such a way that the felbeasts would have no time to
draw away the power of his spell.

Far, far to his right, Cenarius had finally managed to peel off his remaining foe. With one forelimb
dangling, the demon could not maintain its hold. Muscles straining, the demigod bent back, held the beast
over his head, and, with a roar of triumph, threw it high over the tops of the trees and deep into the
waiting forest.

Rhonin cast his spell.

 He had hoped to send a withering blast at the felbeast in focus, at least wounding it enough for Brox to
finish the task. What Rhonin achieved instead, however, was far beyond his hopes.

 An invisible, thundering wall of power that caused the very air to ripple madly materialized before him,
then raced like the wind toward his objective. It spread as it moved, covering in the blink of an eye the
entire expanse of the glade.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Through Brox and the night elf it passed without even the slightest hint of acknowledgment, but for the
three savage demons in its path the fury that Rhonin had unleashed gave no quarter. The felbeasts had no
time to react, no time to bring their hungry tentacles into play. They were as gnats in a raging fire.

 As the wall of force passed through them, the demons burned to ash. The spell ate away at them from
nose on back, a cloud of dust particles scattering from each decimated felbeast as it crumbled. One
managed to unleash a short-lived howl, but then the only sound after was the rush of the wind as it sent to
the heavens what had once been the rampaging monsters.

Silence filled the glade.

 Brox dropped his ax, his wide, tusked mouth open in sheer disbelief. Malfurion stared at his own hands,
as if somehow they had been responsible, then turned in the direction of Cenarius, thinking the answer lay
with the demigod.

 Rhonin had to blink several times to convince himself that what he witnessed had not only been real, but
of his own creation. Belatedly the wizard recalled the brief struggle against the armored night elves, a
struggle in which Krasus had proven disturbingly weak and Rhonin had excelled in a manner he could
never have thought possible of him.

But any pleasure at his astonishing victory vanished immediately as agony tore into him from his back.
He felt himself being ripped apart from inside, as if his very soul was being drained away—

 Drained away?Even despite his horrific ordeal, Rhonin understood all too well what had just happened.
Another felbeast had come around unnoticed from the rear and, as was its way, sought a source of magic
to attack.

Rhonin recalled what had happened to spellcasters caught by the demons. He recalled the terrifying
husks that had been brought back to Dalaran for investigation.

And he was about to become yet another…

 But although now down on one knee, Rhonin rebelled. With all the power at his command, surely he
could escape this parasitic beast!

 Escape…it became the driving thought in his pain- wracked mind. Escape…all Rhonin sought was to
flee the agony, to go somewhere where he would be safe.

 Through the haze of his distress, he vaguely heard the voices of the orc and the night elf. His fear for
himself overlapped them. With what it had sucked from him, the felbeast would be more than a match for
either.

Escape…that was all Rhonin sought.Anywhere…

 Then the pain vanished, replaced by a heavy but comforting numbness that spread throughout his body
like fire. Rhonin gratefully accepted the startling change, letting the numbness take hold and envelop him
completely…

Swallow him whole.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Not for the first time, Tyrande slipped through the silent corridors of the huge temple—past the countless
chambers of sleeping acolytes, the meditation rooms, and places of public worship—and headed to a
window near the main entrance. The bright sun nearly blinded her, but she forced herself to search the
empty square beyond, seeking what she would likely still miss.

No sooner had she peered out than a clank of metal warned her of an approaching guard. The stern
visage of the other night elf softened a touch upon recognition.

“You again! Sister Tyrande…you should really stay in your quarters and get some sleep. You’ve hardly
had any rest for days and now you put yourself at risk. Your friend will be all right. I’m certain of it.”

 The guard meant Illidan, for whom Tyrande also worried, but what the novice priestess really feared was
that when Illidan did return, it would be with his brother and the hapless orc in tow. She did not think that
Malfurion’s twin would ever betray him, but if Lord Ravencrest captured the pair, what could Illidan do
but go along with matters?

“I cannot help it. I’m just so restless, sister. Please forgive me.”

 The sentry smiled sympathetically. “I hope he realizes how much you care for him. The time for your
choosing is fast approaching, isn’t it?”

 The other’s words bothered Tyrande more than she revealed. Her thoughts and reactions since the three
had freed Broxigar had more than hinted to her of her preference, but she could not yet come to believe
it herself. No, her concern was just that of one childhood friend for another.

It had to be…

There came the harsh clank of metal upon metal and the hiss of night sabers. Tyrande immediately
darted past the bemused guard, heading to the outer steps of Elune’s temple.

 Somewhat dust-laden, Lord Ravencrest’s party rode into the square. The cloaked noble himself seemed
quite at ease, even very pleased about something, but many of his soldiers wore darker expressions and
constantly looked at one another as if sharing some terrible secret.

Of either Malfurion or Broxigar, there was no sign.

 All but hidden on the far side of Lord Ravencrest, Illidan rode tall and proud. He appeared the most
satisfied of the group and if that pleasure had to do with keeping his twin from capture, then Tyrande
could certainly not blame him.

 Without realizing what she did, the young priestess stepped down to the street. Her presence caught the
attention of Lord Ravencrest, who smiled graciously and pointed her out to Illidan. The bearded
commander whispered something to Malfurion’s brother, then raised his hand.

The soldiers came to a halt. Illidan and Ravencrest steered their mounts toward her.

 “Well, if it isn’t the most lovely of the Mother Moon’s dedicated servants!” the commander declared.
“How interesting to find you awaiting our return despite the late hour!” He glanced at Illidan, whose
expression bordered on embarrassment. “Very interesting, don’t you think?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Yes, my lord.”

 “We must make for Black Rook Hold, sister, but I think I can spare a precious moment for you two,
eh?”

 Tyrande felt her cheeks darken slightly as Ravencrest guided his panther back to the rest of the party.
Illidan dismounted quickly, stepping up to her and taking her hands in his own.

“They’re safe, Tyrande…and Lord Ravencrest has taken me under his wing! We fought a fearsome
beast and I kept it from harming him! Destroyed it with my own power!”

“Malfurion escaped? You’re certain of it?”

 “Of course, of course,” he returned excitedly, waving away any further questions about his brother. “I’ve
found my destiny at last, don’t you understand? The Moon Guard’s all but ignored me, but I slew a
monster that killed three of theirs, including one of their senior sorcerers!”

 She wanted to hear what he knew about Malfurion and the orc, but it was clear that Illidan was caught
up in his own good fortune. Tyrande could appreciate that, having watched him work hard and fruitlessly
to achieve the glorious future so many had predicted for him. “I’m so glad for you. I feared that you were
frustrated some with the pace of Cenarius’s teaching, but if you were able to protect Lord Ravencrest
with it where his own soldiers could not, then—”

 “You don’t understand! I didn’t use those slow, cumbersome spells that Malfurion’s adored shan’do
tried to show us time and again! I used good, traditional night elf sorcery…and in the daytime, yet! It was
exhilarating!”

 His quick renunciation of the druidic ways did not entirely surprise Tyrande. On the one hand, she was
grateful that he had successfully come into his own at such a drastic moment. On the other, it was yet
another sign of the growing differences between the twins.

And another consideration for her already-overwrought mind.

Behind Illidan, Lord Ravencrest politely cleared his throat.

 Malfurion’s brother grew more animated. “I have to go, Tyrande! I’m to be shown my place at the Hold
and then help organize a larger party to retrieve the dead beasts and all the bodies!”

 “Bodies?” It had registered on her that some of the Moon Guard had perished because of a monster,
but now she realized thatonly Ravencrest’s band would be returning. The one that preceded them out
after Malfurion had been completely slaughtered.

The horror of it all made Tyrande shiver…especially the fact that Malfurion had also been out there.

 “The other creatures wiped out the pursuit almost to a soldier, Tyrande, didn’t you understand?”
Illidan’s voice grew almost gleeful. He paid no mind to the increasing dismay on her face. “The sorcerers
perished immediately, no help at all to the rest. It took the fighters all but two lives to stop them andI
killed one creature with just two quick spells!” His chest swelled. “And these were monsters that
devoured magic, too!”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Again, the noble coughed. Illidan quickly pulled her hands to his lips, kissing them ever so lightly.
Releasing Tyrande, he leapt back atop the night saber.

“I wanted to be worthy of you,” Illidan suddenly murmured. “And soon, I will be.”

 That said, he turned the cat about and headed to the waiting commander. Ravencrest gave Illidan a
companionable slap on the back, then looked over his shoulder at Tyrande. The noble nodded his head
toward Malfurion’s twin and winked.

As Tyrande watched, still dazed by all she had heard, the armed party rode off in the direction of Black
Rook Hold. Illidan peered back one last time before he vanished from the square, his golden eyes intent
upon his childhood friend. Tyrande had no trouble reading in them his desires.

Drawing her robe around her, she rushed back up into the temple. The same sentry who had spoken to
her earlier met her just within.

 “Forgive me, sister! I couldn’t help hearing much of what was said. I grieve for the lives lost on the futile
hunt, but I also wish to give my congratulations on the fine future for your friend! Lord Ravencrest surely
must have the highest respect for him to so readily take him under his guidance! Truly it would be hard to
find a better match, eh?”

 “No…no, I suppose not.” When she realized how she sounded, Tyrande quickly added, “Forgive me,
sister, I believe my exhaustion is catching up with me. I think I should return to bed.”

“Understandable, sister. At least you know that you’ll be in store for some pleasant dreams…”

 But as Tyrande hurried to her room, she suspected that her dreams would be anything but pleasant.
True, she was happy with the news that Malfurion and Broxigar had made good their escape and that no
one apparently had linked Malfurion to the matter. Tyrande was also glad that Illidan had finally found
himself, something she had begun to fear would never come about. What bothered her now, though, was
that Illidan appeared to have made a decision regarding the two of them while Tyrande herself had not
yet done so. There was still Malfurion to consider in the equation, and still his emotions to define.

Of course, that all depended upon whether or not Malfurion continued to evade the wary eye of the
Moon Guard and Lord Ravencrest. If either discovered the truth, it would very likely mean Black Rook
Hold for him.

And from there, not even Illidan would be able to save his brother.



The trees, the foliage, nothing had stopped the felbeast’s plummet earthward. Cast into the sky by the
demigod, the demonic hound could not save itself.

 But the capricious nature of chance did what nothing else could. Cenarius had tossed his evil foe as far
as he could, assuming logically that the fall would finish his task. Had the felbeast landed on rock or earth
or hard against the trunk of one of the mightier oaks, it would have been killed in an instant.

Where the forest lord had thrown it, however, proved to be a body of water, so deep that even at the
velocity with which the felbeast dropped, it did not strike the bottom.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The journey to the surface almost did what the fall failed to do, but still the demon managed to haul itself
ashore. One foreleg hanging useless, the felbeast moved to a shaded depression where it paused for
several minutes to recover.

 Once it had recuperated as best as its wounds would allow, the demon sniffed the air, searching for a
particular scent. The moment the felbeast located what it sought, it grew alert. Pulling itself forward, the
injured horror slowly but steadily began to wend its way toward the source. Even from this distance, it
could smell the power emanating from the Well of Eternity. There it would find the magic it needed to
heal, the magic with which it could even restore the limb that had been ruined.

 The felbeasts were not exactly the simple creatures that even Brox and Rhonin, who knew of them from
their own war, assumed them to be. No creature that served the lord of the Burning Legion was without
some wit, save perhaps the rampaging goliaths called Infernals. The demon hounds were a part of their
handler and what they learned, Hakkar learned.

And from this lone survivor, the Houndmaster would learn much about those who might stand in the way
of the Legion’s coming…

SIXTEEN


It is time.”

Both Alexstrasza’s return and her declaration caught

Krasus by surprise. The dragon mage had sunk so deep into his thoughts that the passage of minutes and
hours had become meaningless. He truly had no idea whether or not he had waited long for her return.

“I am ready.”

 She bent down and took him up onto her neck. Moving gracefully through the ancient passages carved
out over generations by the red dragon flight, Alexstrasza and Krasus soon arrived at a wind-tossed
opening overlooking a vast cloud-enshrouded region. Here was the realm of the red dragons, a
breathtaking vista of proud mountain peaks capped with permanent snow and wrapped in endless
stretches of mist. Krasus understood full well how high his clan’s mountain home had to be for most of
the clouds to bebelow it. Vaguely his splintered memory now recalled the majesty of the land, the great
valleys carved out by ice and time, the jagged, individual faces of each peak.

He suddenly teetered, the rarefied air not quite sufficient for his battered body. Alexstrasza used her
wings to keep him from falling off.

“Perhaps this might not be the best thing for you,” she suggested, her voice filled with concern.

But as abruptly as he had almost collapsed, Krasus now felt renewed strength course through him.

“I trust…I am not late.”

 Korialstrasz lumbered toward his mate, initially looking much the way the mage had felt moments before.
Yet the male dragon, too, now moved as if given an unexpected boost of energy. His somewhat haggard
expression vanished as he neared.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“You are not. Do you feel up to the journey?”

 “Until this very moment, I thought perhaps I could not…but it seems that I am feeling better again.” His
gaze flickered from Alexstrasza to Krasus and back again, as if he suspected the reason for his startling
recuperation but could not accept it.

The dragon queen transferred Krasus to her consort. As Krasus touched his younger self, he felt his own
body recover even more. Direct contact with Korialstrasz almost made him feel whole again.

Almost.

“Are you settled?” the male dragon asked of him.

“I am.”

 Stepping forward, Alexstrasza spread her huge wings and dove out of the passage. She dipped low,
then vanished into the clouds. Korialstrasz stepped to the edge of the precipice, giving his tiny passenger
an even more astounding view of the vast, mountainous terrain, then leapt out into the sky.

 At first they dropped several yards—entering the clouds in the process—but then Korialstrasz caught
the wind and the pair soared up. Through the mists, Krasus saw that Alexstrasza already flew far ahead.
However, her pace was slow enough that her consort quickly caught up with her.

“All is well?” she roared, her question posed toboth companions.

Krasus nodded and Korialstrasz replied in the affirmative. The dragon queen focused ahead and said no
more.

 The sensations of flying, even on the back of another, exhilarated the mage. Having been born to this, it
made his presence circumstances that much harder to accept. He was adragon! One of the masters of
the sky! He should not be condemned to such a paltry existence…

They flew past mountain after mountain, through thick cloud cover and above many other startling
peaks. Krasus’s mortal body grew chilled, but he scarcely noticed, so fascinated was he.

 With the utmost elegance the two massive dragons skirted a savage-looking peak, then dipped down
into a wide valley in the midst of the chain. Krasus strained to see anything other than the landscape, but
failed. Yet, somehow he felt that they were very close to their goal.

“Keep your grip tight!” Korialstrasz called out.

 Before Krasus could ask why, the level to which the dragons descendedrippled. The air itself twisted
and wriggled like the surface of pond after a stone had been tossed into it. At first Krasus feared that the
anomaly which had brought him to this time had materialized again, but then he noted the eagerness with
which his mount headed for the unsettling display.

Ahead, Alexstrasza calmly entered the titanic ripple—and vanished.

 Ancient memories grudgingly arose from the black abyss of Krasus’s mind, memories of other times
when he, as a dragon, had willingly tossed himself into this very sight. Krasus braced himself, recalling
sensations that would assail him when Korialstrasz followed the queen.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




They entered.

 A static charge covered every inch of the mage’s body. His nerves tingled. Krasus felt as if he had
become a part of the heavens themselves, a child of lightning and thunder. The urge to fly on his own
became demanding. It was all he could do to keep himself from letting go of his mount and joining the
clouds and the wind.

The sensation passed, evaporating so unexpectedly that Krasus had to grip Korialstrasz tighter just to
maintain his balance. He blinked, feeling very earthbound, very mortal. The shift in perspective
overwhelmed him so much that at first Krasus did not realize his surroundings had completely changed.

 They hovered within a vast, monumental cavern, so expansive that even Alexstrasza appeared as little
more than a gnat in comparison. Entire kingdoms could fit inside, kingdoms with rolling landscapes and
farmed fields. Even then, there would have been space for much, much more.

 But this was not simply a cavern of tremendous size, for there were other features—or rather lack
thereof—that marked it as a place most distinct from all others. The walls were smooth yet curved,
rubbed so perfectly that if one put a hand to the rock and ran it across or down, there would be no
friction, no resistance. That continued all the way down to the bottom, where the floor itself was an
immense, flat circle that, had it been measured, would have been geometrically flawless.

 The floor was indeed the only flattened area, for as the walls rose high, they continued to curve inward,
sloping toward one another and creating overall a sphere-shaped chamber whose appearance was
further accented by the utter lack of any mineral growth. No stalactites hung menacingly above; no
stalagmites thrust up from the ground below. There were no fissures, not even one tiny crack. There were
no flaws whatsoever in what Krasus finally recalled as theChamber of the Aspects.

A chamber that had been ancient before eventhey had existed.

 It was said that here the creators had shaped the world, molded it and grown it in this sacred place until
it had been ready to be set into the cosmos. Even the great dragons could not completely argue the
validity of that tale, for with no exit other than the magical one they had discovered by accident centuries
earlier, they could not even say for certain that they met in a location situated on the mortal plane. All
attempts to penetrate the walls had met with complete failure and the Aspects had long ago given up even
trying.

To further add to the mystery of the astonishing cavern, a bright, golden illumination filled the Chamber
of the Aspects, a comforting glow with no source. Krasus recalled that experimentation by his kind had
never been able to prove whether that glow vanished when the chamber was empty or whether it was
perpetual, but all who entered felt welcomed by it, as if it acted as a sentinel.

 As Korialstrasz descended, it suddenly occurred to Krasus that, despite his splintered memories, he
remembered this sacred place very distinctly. It said something about the Chamber of the Aspects—here
were recollections he could never misplace, never let fade.

The two red leviathans alighted on the rock floor, peering around. Despite the great expanse, it became
obvious that none of the others had arrived yet.

“You spoke to each?” asked Korialstrasz.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




The Queen of Life shook her majestic head. “Only Ysera. She said she would contact the others.”

“And I did what I could,” responded an almost dreamy but certainly feminine voice.

 Some distance beyond them, a faint emerald form coalesced from thin air. It never truly solidified, but
Krasus noted enough details to identify it as a slim, ethereal dragon almost as tall as Alexstrasza. A
permanent haze surrounded the half-seen figure, but still she was visible enough to mark the fact that her
eyes remained closed at all times, even when she spoke.

 The other dragons dipped their heads in honored greeting, Alexstrasza adding, “I am pleased that you
came so swiftly, good Ysera.”

 She of the Dreaming, as Krasus also knew her, gave greetings in turn. Her face turned to the two who
had come with her counterpart and although the lids did not open, Krasus felt her penetrating gaze. “I
come because you are my sister, my friend. I come because you would not request a gathering if you did
not have good reason.”

“And the others?”

 “Nozdormu is the only one I could not reach directly. You know his ways. I was forced to contact one
who serves him, who said he would do what he could to let his master know…that is the best I could
accomplish there.”

 Alexstrasza nodded gratefully, but was unable to hide her disappointment with this last news. “Then,
even if the others attend, we cannot come to a final decision.”

“The Timeless One may still join us.”

 Still perched atop his younger self’s neck, Krasus took as ill news the lack of any contact with
Nozdormu. He understood the complexities of the Timeless One’s nature, how Nozdormu was past,
present, future…all history. Of all the others, it had been Nozdormu whom Krasus had secretly hoped to
see here, for he offered the hope that there might still be a chance to send the two wayward travelers
back to their own period, ending the matter peacefully.

 And without that hope, Krasus once again had to look to the one other option…that to preserve the
timeline, the Aspects might have to eliminate Rhonin and him.

 Suddenly from above there came a brilliant flash of red bolts, an electrical storm that descended with
swift fury to the ground. Once there, it exploded in a display of awe-inspiring colors before spreading out
and forming a huge shape.

 And as the last bits burned away, in place of the brief but startling storm stood a tall, glistening dragon
who seemed part crystal, part ice. For a dragon, his expression was one quite merry, as if he had
enjoyed the spectacle he created even more than any who witnessed it.

“Welcome, Malygos,” Alexstrasza said politely.

“Such a pleasure to see you, Queen of Life!” The gleaming behemoth laughed heartily. “And you, too,
my fair dream!”

Ysera nodded silently, a hint of humor touching her own expression.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“How fares your realm?” the red queen asked.

“As wondrous as I would wish it! Filled with brightness, filled with colors, and filled with young!”

“Perhaps the creators should have made you Father of Life instead of Guardian of Magic, Malygos!”

“An interesting thought! Perhaps a matter to discuss some other day!” He laughed again.

“Are you not well?” Korialstrasz asked Krasus, who, upon seeing the newcomer, had stiffened in
horror.

 “I am fine. I was simply adjusting my seating.” The tiny figure was thankful that Korialstrasz had not been
able to see his expression. The more Krasus watched and listened to Malygos, the more he regretted his
need to keep from even the Aspects the full truth concerning the future.

 What would you say, Guardian of Magic, if you knew the fateawaiting you? Betrayal, madness, a realm
frozen and empty of all save yourself…

 Krasus could not recall all he knew of Malygos’s future, but he recalled enough from the bits and pieces
to understand and regret the tragedy—and yet once more he could not bring himself to warn the glittering
leviathan.

“And is that the one to whom we owe this gathering?” asked Malygos, his gleaming gaze now upon
Krasus.

“It is,” Alexstrasza replied.

 The Guardian of Magic sniffed the air. “He has the scent of us upon him, although that may also be due
to his proximity to your consort. I cannot say for certain. I also detect old magic surrounding him. Is he
bespelled?”

 “We shall let him tell his own story,” Alexstrasza replied, sparing Krasus from any interrogation. “Once
the others have arrived.”

“One is coming even now,” Ysera sagely announced.

The ceiling above rippled, then shimmered. A huge, winged form materialized, then swooped down
grandly, circling the vast cavern twice in the process. The other Aspects grew respectfully silent, each
watching the massive figure draw near.

 In size he rivaled the largest of them, a winged behemoth as black as night with a bearing as noble as any
depiction ever made of a dragon. Narrow veins of actual silver and gold streaking from front to back
accented his spine and sides, while gleaming flashes between the scales hinted at diamonds and other
precious stones embedded naturally in his hide. The newcomer radiated a sense of primal power, the
power of the world itself in all its most basic forms.

 He landed just beyond the rest, his huge, webbed wings folding masterfully behind him. In a voice deep
and full, the black dragon said, “You have called and I have come. It is always good to see my friend
Alexstrasza…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“And I welcome your presence, dear Neltharion.”

Before, it had been all Krasus could do to keep from reacting to Malygos’s presence. Now he fought to
keep himself from shaking, from showing the slightest sign at all of how he felt about this latest arrival.
Yet, while his earlier reaction came from his knowledge concerning the doomed future of the Guardian of
Magic, now Krasus worried more for the future ofall dragons…and the world itself, should it survive the
Burning Legion.

Before him stood Neltharion.

 Neltharion. The Earth Warder. Most respected of the Aspects and, in addition, the close friend of
Krasus’s beloved queen. Had Neltharion been of her own flight, he surely would have long been chosen
as one of her mates. Outside of her consorts, the Earth Warder was the one whom Alexstrasza most
often sought for consultation, for the brooding black had a sharp mind that saw all angles. Neltharion did
nothing without considering the consequences and, as a young dragon, Krasus had in some ways
emulated him.

 But in the future to which the mage belonged, any thought of emulating Neltharion would have gone
beyond the point of madness. Neltharion had rejected his role, rejected the protection the Aspects gave
the mortal realm. He had instead turned to the belief that the lesser races were the root of all that was
wrong with the world, that they should be removed…and those who would aid them should be removed
as well.

 Neltharion had come to envision a world where only dragons—specifically his own flight—ruled all. That
growing obsession had led him to countless acts of an increasingly dark design, acts so horrible that
eventually Neltharion became as terrible a danger to the world as the demons of the Burning Legion. The
other Aspects had finally banded together against him, but not before he had spilled much blood and
caused wholesale destruction.

 And in rejecting all he had once been, Neltharion had also rejected his own name. From his former
counterparts had come the name by which he was known toall creatures, one that had become
synonymous with evil itself.

Deathwing…

There before Krasus loomed Deathwing, the Destroyer, the Black Scourge. Yet, the dragon mage could
do nothing to warn the others. In fact, although he knew the danger that Neltharion would eventually
become, Krasus could not recall when and where the tragedy had begun. To foment distrust among the
Aspects at this critical juncture risked even more of a disaster than what the Earth Warder’s future held.

And yet…

“I was surprised when Ysera, not you, contacted me,” the black rumbled. “You are well, Alexstrasza?”

“I am, Neltharion.”

He eyed her companions. “And you, young Korialstrasz? You are not at your best, I think.”

“An illness passing,” the red male answered respectfully.

“It is an honor to see you again, Earth Warder.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




They conversed like friendly acquaintances and yet Krasus managed to recall that as Deathwing,
Neltharion would barely recognize him. By the time of the orc wars, the black behemoth would have
dwelled so long in his madness that past friendships would be forgotten. All that would matter would be
whatever advanced his dark cause.

 But here still was Neltharion the comrade. He peered over Korialstrasz’s neck, noting the tiny, cowled
figure. “And you are the one. You have a name?”

“Krasus!” the mage snapped. “Krasus!”

“A defiant little one!” Neltharion said with amusement. “I believe that he is definitely a dragon, as Ysera
hinted.”

“A dragon with a tale to tell,” Alexstrasza added. She gazed up at the ceiling, specifically the spot from
which she and the others had entered. “But I would prefer to give Nozdormu more time before we
begin.”

“Give the Timeless One more time?” Malygos laughed.

“How droll! I will not let dour Nozdormu leave without pressing him onthat jest!”

 “Yes and you will press himtime andtime again with it, will you not?” returned Neltharion, a vast, toothy
smile spreading across his reptilian countenance.

Malygos laughed further. He and Neltharion shuffled to one side, already deep in some conversation.

 “Brothers they may not be in blood,” commented Ysera, her closed eyes following the pair. “But they
are truly brothers in nature.”

 Alexstrasza agreed. “It is good that Neltharion has Malygos to turn to. He has been quiet with me of
late.”

 “I, too, sense a distance. He does not take the actions by these night elves with pleasure. He stated once
that they have grandiose visions of becoming like the creators without the knowledge and wisdom of the
latter.”

“There may be something to what he has said,” the Queen of Life returned, her eyes sweeping briefly
over Krasus.

 The mage grew increasingly uncomfortable under her study of him. Of them all, Alexstrasza deserved
this other warning. It would be Deathwing’s doing that she would be turned into a slave of the orcs,
whose warhounds readily sacrificed her children to their brutal cause. Deathwing would then use the
chaos of the last days of the orc wars to seek what he truly desired…the eggs of the Queen of Life to
recreate his own decimated flight, all but slain because of his past mad plots.

 What limit do I set?Krasus demanded of himself.When must the line finally be crossed? I can say nothing
about the orcs, nothing about the Earth Warder’s betrayals, nothing about the Burning Legion…all I can
do is state enough facts to possibly exterminate myself and Rhonin!

In frustration, he glared at one of the causes of his dilemma. Neltharion spoke merrily with Malygos, the
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




latter’s back turned to the other waiting dragons. The huge black stretched his wings and nodded at
some remark by his gleaming counterpart. Had they been humans, dwarves, or some other mortal race,
the pair would have looked quite at home drinking ale in a tavern. The lesser races saw the dragons as
either monstrous beasts or dignified founts of wisdom, when in truth their characters were in some ways
as earthy as the tiny creatures over which they watched.

Neltharion’s eyes flickered past Malygos, meeting, however briefly, Krasus’s.

 And in that moment of contact, Krasus realized that all he and the others had seen so far of the black at
this gathering had been a charade.

The darkness had already descended upon the Earth Warder.

 Not possible, not possible!Krasus insisted, barely able to keep his expression neutral.Not now! It was
too soon, too delicate a point in time for the transformation of Neltharion to Deathwing to begin. The
Aspects needed to be united, not only to join against the coming invasion, but to deal with the disruptions
of time caused by Krasus and his former student. Surely he had been mistaken about the black leviathan.
Surely Neltharion was still one of the fabled protectors of the mortal plane.

 Krasus cursed his feeble memory. Whenhad Neltharion turned to betrayal? Whenhad he forever
become the bane of all other living creatures? Was it meant to be now or had Neltharion worked with his
comrades even though darkness had already claimed him?

 The cowled mage could not help but stare at the Earth Warder. Despite his own oath, Krasus began to
think that perhaps here he had to bend the rules. How could it do anything but good to unveil the villain in
the Aspects’ midst? How—

Once more Neltharion glanced his way…but this time the eyes did not leave Krasus’s own.

 And only then did Krasus discover that Neltharion in turn saw the recognition in him, only then did he
realize that the black dragon understood that here was one who could reveal his terrible secret.

Krasus tried to look away, but his eyes were held fast. Too late he realized the cause of that. The Earth
Warder, having seen that he had been found out, had acted quickly and decisively. He now held Krasus
with his power as easily as he breathed.

 I will not fall to him!Yet, despite his determination to escape, his will did not prove strong enough. Had
he been better prepared, Krasus could have battled Neltharion’s mind, but the unexpected discovery had
left him wide open…and the black one had seized the opportunity.

You know me…but I do not know you.

The chilling voice filled his head. Krasus prayed that someone would notice what passed between the
pair, but to all appearances, everything passed as normal. It astounded him that not even his beloved
Alexstrasza recognized the terrible truth.

 You would speak against me…make the others see me as youdo…you would have them distrust their
comrade of old…their brother…

 The Earth Warder’s words gave clear indication of how deep his madness had already become. Krasus
sensed within Neltharion a raging paranoia and an adamant belief that no one but the black dragon
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




understood what was good for the world. Anyone who seemed at all the slightest threat to him was, in
Neltharion’s eyes, the true evil.

You will not be allowed to spread any of your malicious falsehoods…

Krasus expected to be struck down there and then, but, to his surprise, all Neltharion did was turn his
gaze away and resume his conversation with Malygos.

What games does he play?the dragon mage wondered.First he threatens me, then seems to forget my
presence!

He watched the black leviathan carefully, but Neltharion seemed entirely oblivious to him.

“He is not coming,” Ysera finally said.

“He may still appear,” suggested Alexstrasza.

Glancing at them, Krasus realized that they referred to Nozdormu.

“No, I have been contacted by the one with whom I spoke. He cannot locate his master. The Timeless
One is somewhere beyond the mortal plane.”

 Ysera’s news boded further ill. Knowing what he did of Nozdormu, Krasus suspected that the reason
that even the Timeless One’s servants could not contact him was because of the anomaly. If, as Krasus
believed, Nozdormu held Time together all by himself, he would have needed to summon every instant of
his existence. Multiple Nozdormus would be battling Time…leaving no moment for this gathering.

Krasus’s hopes dwindled further. Nozdormu lost and Neltharion mad…

 “I agree, then,” Alexstrasza said, responding to Ysera’s assessment. “We shall go on without the full
Five. There is no rule that we cannot at least discuss the matter after the story is told, even if a course of
action cannot yet be taken.”

 Lowering his head, Korialstrasz allowed his rider to dismount. Keeping his expression guarded, Krasus
stepped out among the gathered giants, trying not to look at the Earth Warder. Alexstrasza’s eyes
encouraged him, enough so that the dragon mage knew what he had to do.

 “I am one of you,” he announced in a voice as booming as any of the leviathans surrounding him. My
true name is known to the Queen of Life, but for now I am simply Krasus!”

“He bellows well, this hatchling,” Malygos jested.

 Krasus faced him. “This is not a time for humor, especially for you, Guardian of Magic! This is a time
when a balance is nigh upset! A terrible mistake, a distortion of reality, threatens everything…absolutely
everything!”

“How dramatic,” Neltharion commented almost absently.

It took everything in Krasus’s power not to blurt out the truth about the Earth Warder.Not yet…

“You will hear my story,” insisted Krasus. “You will hear it and understand…for there is a worse danger
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




on the horizon, one which touches us as well. You see—”

 But as the first words of his tale ushered forth from his mouth, Krasus’s tongue seemed to catch
everywhere. Instead of a coherent telling, babbled words of whimsy escaped him.

Most of the gathered dragons pulled their heads back, startled by his peculiar behavior. Krasus looked
quickly to Alexstrasza, seeking her help, but her expression indicated an astonishment as strong as any.

The mage’s head spun. Vertigo worse than any he had suffered so far seized him, made him unable to
keep his balance. Nonsense words continued to spew from his lips, but even Krasus no longer knew
what he tried to convey.

 And as his legs buckled and the vertigo took full hold of him, Krasus heard within his head the deathly
calm voice of Neltharion.

I did warn you…

SEVENTEEN


 Darkness came and the world of the night elves awoke. Merchants opened their businesses while the
faithful went to their prayers. The general populace lived their lives, feeling no different then on any other
eve. The world was theirs to do with as they chose, whatever other, lesser races might believe.

But for some, tiny annoyances crept into their lives, minor deviations from their routines, their notions.

***

A senior master of the Moon Guard, his long silver hair bound behind him, absently raised one long,
nailed finger toward a flask of wine at the opposite end of the room as he perused the star charts in
preparation for a major casting by the order. Although he was among the eldest of the sorcerers, his skills
had remained undiminished, a reason for his continued high position. Spellcasting was to him as much a
part of his existence as breathing, a matter simply and naturally done, almost without thought.

 The crash that jarred him from his plush chair and made him crumple the parchment nearly to shreds
proved to be caused by the flask’s swift and fatal descent to the floor. Wine and glass spilled over the
rich emerald and orange carpet the sorcerer had only recently purchased.

 With a hiss of fury, the spellcaster snapped his fingers at the disastrous spill. Bits of glass suddenly rose
into the air as the wine itself puddled together and formed into the shape of the container that had held it.
The glass then began to mold together over the wine…

But a second later…everything again spilled all over the carpet, creating a worse mess than before.

The aged sorcerer stared. With a grim expression, he snapped his fingers again.

 This time, the glass and the wine performed as he desired, even the slightest hint of stain removed. Yet,
they did so with some sluggishness, taking far longer than the Moon Guard master would have expected.

The aged night elf returned to his parchment and tried once more to concentrate on the coming event,
but his gaze constantly shifted back to the bottle and its contents. He pointed a finger at the flask
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




again—then, with a frown, pulled the finger back and purposely turned his chairaway from the cause of
his annoyance.



 At the edges of every major settlement, armed sentinels patrolled and guarded the night elves from any
possible foe. Lord Ravencrest and those like him ever watched the areas beyond the main boundaries of
the realm, their belief that the dwarves and other races constantly coveted the night elves’ rich world.
They did not look inward—for who of their own people would ever threaten them?—but permitted
every settlement to maintain its own security simply in order to comfort the general citizenry.

 In Galhara, a great city some distance on the opposing side of the Well from Zin-Azshari, sorcerers
began the nightly ritual of realigning the emerald crystals that lined its boundaries. In conjunction with each
other, the crystals acted, among other things, as defense against general magical attack. They had not, to
anyone’s recollection, ever been utilized, but the people took great comfort in their presence.

 Despite there being hundreds, it was no troublesome feat to set the crystal arrays. All drew their power
directly from the Well of Eternity and the sorcerers merely had to use the stars to adjust the lines of force
that ran from one to another. In truth, this mostly required a simple twist of the crystal on the tall, obsidian
pole upon which each had been placed. Thus, the local spellcasters were able to do several in the space
of only a few minutes.

 But with more than half already realigned, the crystals began to dim, even darkened completely. The
sorcerers of Galhara, while not as proficient as the Moon Guard, knew their tasks well enough to
understand that what happened now shouldnot be happening. They immediately began checking and
rechecking the arrays, but found nothing wrong.

 “They are not drawing properly from the Well,” one younger spellcaster finally decided. “Something has
tried to cut them off from its might!”

 But no sooner had he said that than the crystals renewed their normal activities. His elder associates
looked at him in bemusement, trying to recall if, when as new to their roles as he was, they had made
such outrageous statements.

And life among the night elves went on…



 “It hasssfailed!” Hakkar roared. He nearly whipped the closest of the Highborne, but pulled his savage
lash back at the last moment. Eyes deathly dark, he looked to Lord Xavius.“We have failed…”

The felbeasts at the Houndmaster’s flanks echoed their handler’s fury with sinister snarls.

 Xavius was no less displeased. He eyed the work that both the Highborne and Hakkar had wrought and
saw in it hours of futility…and yet both he and the Houndmaster had seen the merits of the queen’s
suggestion.

They simply did not have the knowledge or power needed to make it happen.

That the efforts of the Highborne had still enabled more than a score of Fel Guard to join those already
on the mortal plane did nothing to assuage them. Such numbers were only a slow dribble and did nothing
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




to pave the way for the great one’s coming.

“What can we do?” asked the night elf.

 For the first time, he read uncertainty in the Houndmaster’s haunting visage. The huge warrior turned his
baleful gaze toward the portal, where others of the Highborne ever continued to try to make it stronger
and larger. “We mussst assskhim.”

The counselor swallowed, but before his monstrous counterpart could take the step, Lord Xavius
pushed himself forward, falling down on one knee before the portal. He would not shirk from his failures,
not to his god.

Yet, even before his knee touched the stone, Xavius heard the voice in his head.

Is the portal strengthened?

“Nay, great one…the work in that regard has not progressed as we hoped.”

 For just the hint of a moment, what almost seemed an insane fury threatened to overwhelm the night
elf…but then the sensation passed. Certain that he had imagined it, Xavius awaited the god’s next words.

You seek something…speak.

 Lord Xavius explained the notion of sealing off the Well’s power from all but the palace and the failure
to make that come to pass. He kept his head low, humble before the power that made the combined
might of all night elves look no more terrible than that of an insect.

I have already considered this…the god finally answered.The one I sent first has failed in his duty…

Behind Xavius, the Houndmaster let out a brief sound bordering on dismay.

Another will be sent to you…you must make certain that the portal is made ready for him…

“Another, my lord?”

 I now send you one of my…one of the commanders of my host. He will see to it that what is needed will
come to pass…and quickly.

 The voice departed Xavius’s head. He swayed for a moment, the departure as stunning to him as if
someone had just cut off one of his arms. Another of the Highborne helped him to his feet.

Xavius looked at Hakkar, who did not seem at all happy despite what the counselor saw as the most
wonderful of news. “He sends us one of hiscommanders! Do you know which one?”

The Houndmaster anxiously rolled up his whip. Beside him, the two felbeasts cringed. “Aye…I know
which one, lord night elf.”

“We must make ready! He will be coming immediately!”

Despite whatever disturbed him, Hakkar joined Xavius as the latter inserted himself among the casting
Highborne. The pair added their knowledge and skill, amplifying as best they could the framework of
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




energy that kept the portal ever open.

 The burning sphere swelled, sparks of multicolored forces constantly shooting out from it. It pulsated,
almost breathing. The portal stretched, a savage, roaring sound accompanying the physical change.

Sweat already poured down Xavius’s face and body, but he did not care. The glory of what he sought
gave him strength. Even more than the Houndmaster, he threw himself into making the spell not only hold,
but expand to what was needed.

And as it grew to touch the ceiling, the portal suddenly disgorged a huge, dark figure at once so
wonderful and terrible that it was all Xavius could do to keep from crying out in gratitude to the great
one. Here now stood one of the celestial commanders, a figure before whom Hakkar seemed as
unworthy as Xavius had felt before the Houndmaster.

“Elune save us!” one of the other sorcerers gasped. He pulled free, all but destroying the precious portal.
Xavius barely seized control and, straining mightily, held it in place until the others could recover.

 A huge, four-digited hand large enough to encompass the counselor’s head stretched forth, pointing a
taloned finger toward the careless spellcaster. A voice that was both the roar of a crashing wave and the
ominous rumble of an erupting volcano uttered a single, unrecognizable word.

The night elf who had stumbled away screamed as his body twisted like a piece of wet cloth being
drained of water. A grotesque procession of cracking sounds matched the faltering scream. Most of the
other Highborne immediately looked away and Hakkar’s felbeasts whined.

 Black flames erupted all over the macabre sight, enveloping what was left of the unfortunate sorcerer.
The flames ate away at him like a pack of starved wolves, swiftly devouring the victim until but seconds
later only a slight pile of ash on the floor remained to mark his passing.

“There will be no more failure,” the thundering voice stated.

 If the Houndmaster and the Fel Guard had not amazed Lord Xavius enough, surely only the god himself
could have awed the counselor more than this new arrival. The fearsome figure moved forward on four
thick, muscular limbs reminiscent of a dragon, save that these ended in blocky feet with three massive,
clawed toes. A magnificent, scaled tail swept the floor over and over, the movement very likely a sign of
the celestial one’s impatience. From the top of his head down his back to the very tip of his tail ran a wild
mane of pure green flame. Huge leathery wings also stretched from his back but even despite their span,
Xavius wondered if they could lift so gigantic and powerful a form.

 His hide, where black armor did not cover it, was a dark gray-green. He stood twice as wide as Hakkar
and at least sixteen feet high, if the counselor was any judge. The massive tusks sprouting from the sides
of his upper jaw nearly scraped the ceiling and the other, daggerlike teeth measured as long as the night
elf’s hand.

 Under a thick brow ridge that almost completely obscured his burning orbs, the chosen of the great one
stared down at the lord counselor…and the Houndmaster, especially.

“You have disappointed him…” was all the winged commander declared.

“I—” Hakkar paused in his protest, hanging his head. “I have no excussse, Mannoroth.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Mannoroth tilted his head slightly, looking at the Houndmaster as if studying an unpleasant bit of refuse
found on his dinner plate. “No…you do not.”

 The felbeast on Hakkar’s right suddenly whined loudly. Black flames akin to those that had removed the
negligent sorcerer enveloped the frightened hound. It rolled desperately on the floor, trying to douse
flames that would not be doused. The fire spread over it, consuming it…

And when only a wisp of smoke marked where the felbeast had stood, Mannoroth said again to the
Houndmaster. “There will be no more failure.”

Fear filled Xavius, but a wondrous, glorious fear. Here was power incarnate, a being that sat at the right
hand of the great one. Here was one who would know how to turn their defeat into victory.

The dark gaze turned on him. Mannoroth gave a short sniff with his blunt nose…then nodded. “The
great one approves of your efforts, lord night elf.”

He had been blessed! Xavius lowered himself further. “I give thanks!”

 “The plan will be followed. We will cut off the place of power from the rest of this realm. Then the
arrival of the host can begin in earnest.”

“And the great one? He will come then?”

Mannoroth gave him a wide smile, one with which he could have swallowed the counselor whole. “Oh,
yes, lord night elf!Sargeras himself will want to be here when the world is cleansed…he will want to be
here very, very much…”



Grass filled Rhonin’s mouth and nose.

At least, he assumed it was grass. It tasted like grass, although he had not had much experience in such
dining. The smell reminded him of wild fields and more peaceful times…times with Vereesa.

 With effort, he pushed himself up. Night had fallen and while the moon shone fairly brightly, it revealed
little beyond the fact that he lay in a lightly wooded area. Rhonin listened, but heard no sound of
civilization.

 The sudden fear that he had been catapulted into yet another era briefly overwhelmed him, but then the
wizard recalled just what had happened. His own spell had sent him here, his desperate attempt to
escape the demon draining him of his magic—and in the process, his life.

But if in the same time, thenwhere had he landed? His surroundings gave no hint. He could be a few
miles away or on the other side of the world.

And if the latter…could he return to Kalimdor? He hoped Krasus still lived somewhere, and only with
his former mentor’s aid did the wizard think that they might yet return home.

Staggering to his feet, Rhonin tried to decide which direction to go. Somehow he had to at least discover
his whereabouts.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 A noise in the woods behind him made the human whirl about. His hand came up in preparation for a
spell.

A hulking figure emerged.

“No quarrel, wizard! Only Brox before you!”

 Rhonin cautiously lowered his hand. The huge orc trudged forward, still clutching the ax Malfurion and
the demigod had fashioned for him.

At the thought of the night elf, Rhonin looked around. “Are you alone?”

“Was until I saw you. You make a lot of noise, human. You move like a drunken infant.”

 Ignoring the jibe, the wizard looked past the orc. “I was thinking of Malfurion. He was also nearby when
I cast the spell. If you were drawn into it, he might’ve been.”

“Sound.” Brox scratched his ugly head. “Saw no night elf. Saw no felbeast, either.”

The human shivered. He certainly hoped that he had not included the demon in his escape. “Any idea
where we might be?”

“Woods…forest.”

 Rhonin almost snapped at him for the useless answer, but realized that he could do no better. “I was
planning to go that way,” he said, pointing toward what he believed was east. “You have any better
ideas?”

“Could wait until sunrise. Better able to see and night elves, they don’t like sun.”

 While that made much sense, Rhonin did not feel comfortable waiting for daylight and told his
companion so. Brox surprised him by nodding in agreement.

“Better to scout, wizard.” He shrugged. “Your direction as good as any.”

As they started off, a question occurred to Rhonin that he simply had to ask. “Brox…how did you get
here? Not this exact location—I know that, of course—but how did you come to this realm?”

 At first the orc only clamped his mouth shut, but then he finally told the wizard. Rhonin listened to the
tale, careful to hide his emotions. The veteran and his ill-fated partner had been right behind Krasus and
him and, like the others, had been caught by the anomaly.

“Do you understand what swallowed us?”

Brox shrugged. “Wizard’s spell. Bad one. Sent us far from our home.”

“Farther than you might know.” Deciding that Brox had a right to the truth regardless of what Krasus
might think, Rhonin told him what had happened.

To the wizard’s surprise, Brox accepted his story quite readily. Only when Rhonin thought about the
history of the orc’s people did he realize why. The orcs had already journeyed through time and space
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




from another world. A spell that would cast one into the past was hardly that much different.

“Can we return, human?”

“I don’t know.”

“You saw. The demons are here. The Legion is here.”

 “This is the first time they tried to invade our world. Most beyond Dalaran don’t know that history
anymore.”

Brox gripped his ax tighter. “We’ll fight them…”

“No…we can’t.” Rhonin explained Krasus’s reasoning.

But while Brox had quickly accepted all else, he drew the line when it came to leaving the past alone.
The matter was simple for the orc; here was a dangerous, foul enemy who would slaughter all in their
path. Only cowards and fools let such horror happen and Brox said so more than once.

“We might change history by interfering,” the wizard insisted, in his heart wanting to agree with the orc.

Brox snorted. “You fought.”

His simple statement completely repudiated Rhonin’s only argument. The wizardhad fought already and
by doing so had made a choice.

But was it the right one? Already the past had been altered, but to what degree?

 They moved on in silence, Rhonin in battle with his inner demons and Brox keeping a wary eye out for
physical ones. Nowhere did they see any hint of where they might have ended up. At one point Rhonin
considered concentrating on the glade and trying to send them both back there. Then he remembered the
felbeast and what it had almost done to him.

 The woods thickened, eventually becoming a full forest. Rhonin silently cursed, his choice of directions
now seeming a poor one. Brox gave no indication of his own opinion, simply chopping away with his
enchanted ax whenever the path grew impossible. The ax sliced through everything with such ease that
the wizard hoped that his companion would never accidentally cut him with it. Not even bone gave the
blade any pause.

 The moon vanished, the thick foliage of the surrounding trees completely obscuring the heavens. The
path became impossible. After a few more minutes of fruitlessly fighting their way along, the pair decided
to turn back. Again, the orc said nothing about Rhonin’s choice.

But when they turned around, it was to find that the way they came had completelyvanished.

 Huge trees stood where once the path had been and dense undergrowth around the trunks gave further
evidence that this surely was not the right direction. Yet, both orc and human eyed the trees with distrust.

“We came from through there. I know we did.”

“Agreed.” Raising the ax, Brox moved in on the mysterious trees. “And we go back that way, too.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




But as he swung, huge, branchlike hands seized the weapon by the sides of the blade and pulled it up.

Unwilling to relinquish the ax, Brox hung by the handle, the orc’s legs dangling as he sought to use his
weight to wrest the weapon free.

Rhonin ran up. He tugged on the orc’s feet with no success. Staring at the long, inhuman fingers, he
began to mutter a spell.

Something struck him from behind. The wizard stumbled forward and would have soundly hit the tree
before him if not for the fact that itmoved aside at the last moment.

 Momentum sent Rhonin flailing to the earth. However, instead of striking either harsh ground or one of
the many gnarled roots around him, he landed atop something softer.

A body.

 Rhonin gasped, assuming that he had come across a previous victim of the sinister trees. But as he
pushed himself up, a brief glimmer of moonlight that somehow had penetrated the vast crowns above
allowed him to see the face.

Malfurion…

The night elf suddenly moaned. His eyes flickered open and he saw the wizard.

“You—”

Further back, Brox shouted something. Both human and night elf quickly looked that way. Rhonin raised
a hand in preparation for attack, but Malfurion surprised him by seizing his wrist.

 “No!” The dark-skinned figure sat up, quickly scanning the trees. He nodded to himself, then shouted,
“Brox! Do not fight them! They mean no harm!”

“No harm?” growled the orc. “They want my ax!”

“You must do as I say! They are protectors!”

 From the warrior came a reluctant groan. Rhonin looked at Malfurion for explanation, but received
none. Instead, the night elf released the wizard’s wrist, then pushed himself to his feet. With Rhonin
trailing behind, Malfurion walked calmly toward the area where Brox battled.

 They found the orc surrounded by ominous-looking trees. A cluster of branches hung above and in them
was tangled Brox’s ax. The orc panted from effort, his body still tense. He looked from his companions
to his weapon and back again, as if still not certain he should not try to climb after it.

“Knew your voice,” he grunted. “You better be right.”

“I am.”

 As the wizard and the warrior watched, Malfurion stepped up to the tallest of the trees and said, “I give
thanks to the brothers of the forest, the keepers of the wild. I know you watched over me until my friends
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




could find me. They mean no harm; they just did not understand.”

The leaves of the trees began to rustle even though Rhonin could feel no wind.

Nodding, the night elf continued, “We will trouble you no longer.”

More rustling…then the branches entangling Brox’s ax separated and the weapon slipped earthward.

 They could have let the ax fall harmlessly to the ground, but the orc suddenly stepped forward. He
reached up with one powerful hand and caught the ax handle perfectly. Yet, instead of waving the
weapon at the trees, he knelt before them, the blade turned downward.

“I ask forgiveness.”

 Again, the crowns of the towering trees shook. Malfurion put a hand on the orc’s broad shoulder. “They
accept.”

“You can really speak with them?” Rhonin finally asked.

“To a point.”

“Then ask them where we are.”

 “I already have. Not at all that far from where we were, but far enough away. Actually, we’re both
fortunate and unfortunate.”

“How so?”

The night elf smiled ruefully. “We’re only a short distance from my home.”

 This was excellent news to the wizard, but not such good news to the night elf, he gathered. Nor did it
seem good news to Brox, who cursed in his native tongue.

“What is it? What do the two of you know?”

“I was captured close to here, wizard,” growled the brawny warrior. “Very close.”

 Recalling his own capture, Rhonin could see why Brox might be upset. “I’ll take us from here, then. This
time I know what to expect—”

 Malfurion held up a hand in protest. “We were fortunate once, but here, you risk being sensed
immediately by the Moon Guard. They have the skill to usurp your spell…in fact, they may have, at the
very least, already sensed the first one.”

“What do you suggest?”

“As we are near my home, we should make use of it. There are others who could be of assistance to us.
My brother and Tyrande.”

Brox embraced his suggestion. “The shaman…she will help.” His tone darkened. “Your twin…yes.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Rhonin still worried about Krasus, but with no notion as to how to find his former mentor, the night elf’s
decision made the most sense. With Malfurion in the lead, the trio headed off. The path through the forest
now proved startlingly easy, considering the trek through which the human and the orc had earlier
suffered. The landscape seemed to go out of its way to make Malfurion’s journey a comfortable one.
Rhonin knew something of druids and for the first time marked Malfurion as of that calling.

“The demigod—Cenarius—he taught you to speak with the trees, to cast such spells?”

 “Yes. I seem to be the first to truly understand them. Even my brother prefers the power of the Well to
the ways of the forest.”

 At mention of the Well, a feeling of anticipation and hunger suddenly touched Rhonin. He fought the
emotions down. The Well that his companion had mentioned could only be the Well of Eternity, the
fabled fount of power. Were they that near? Was that why his own spellwork had become magnified?

To wield such power…and so readily…

“We’re not much farther,” Malfurion said a short while later. “I recognize that gnarled elder.”

The “elder” he referred to was a twisted old tree that, to Rhonin at least, looked like little more than a
dark shape. Something else, however, attracted the wizard’s attention.

“Do I hear rushing water?”

The night elf sounded more cheerful. “It flows very near my home! Only a few more minutes and—”

 But before he could finish, the forest filled with armored figures. Brox snarled and made ready with his
ax. Rhonin readied a spell, certain that these were the same foul attackers who had first seized Krasus
and him.

 As for Malfurion, the night elf looked entirely perplexed at the sudden appearance of the attackers. He
started to raise a hand toward them, then hesitated.

 Malfurion’s hesitation caused Rhonin in turn to pause. That proved a mistake, for in the next instant a red
shroud of energy fell upon each. Rhonin felt his muscles freeze and his strength fade. He could not move,
could not do anything but watch.

 “An excellent piece of work, lad,” proclaimed a commanding voice. “ ’Tis the beastman we
sought—and no doubt those who aided in his escape!”

 Someone replied, but too low for Rhonin to make out the words. A band of riders, two bearing glowing
emerald staffs, entered the circle of soldiers. At their head was a bearded night elf who had to be the one
in charge. Next to him—

 Rhonin’s eyes widened, the only response left to him in his present condition. It hardly signified his
astonishment upon recognizing the figure next to the commander.

The garments were different and the hair was bound back, but there was no mistaking that the dour face
was an exact duplicate of Malfurion’s.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 EIGHTEEN
Mannoroth was pleased…and that pleased

Lord Xavius.

“It is good, then?” the night elf asked the celestial commander. So much hinged on everything going as
planned.

Mannoroth nodded his heavy, tusked head. His wings stretched and folded in satisfaction. “Yes…very
good. Sargeras will be pleased.”

 Sargeras.Again the celestial commander had uttered the true name of the great one. Xavius’s magical
eyes burned bright as he savored it.Sargeras.

 “We will work the portal the moment that the spell is set in place. First will come the host, then, when all
is made ready, my lord himself…”

 Hakkar approached, the much subdued Houndmaster falling on one knee before Mannoroth. “Forgive
thisss interruption, but one of my huntersss hasss returned.”

“Onlyone?”

“Ssso it ssseems.”

“And what have you learned from it?” Mannoroth loomed over his counterpart, making the
Houndmaster seem smaller and smaller.

“They found two with the ssscent of othernessss that the lord night elf ssspoke of, plusss one of hisssown
kind with them! But in the hunt they alssso fell afoul of a being of power…great power.”

For the first time, Mannoroth displayed a slight hint of uncertainty. Xavius noted carefully the reaction,
wondering what could disturb so wondrous a being. “Not—”

Hakkar quickly shook his head. “I think not. Perhapsss with a touch of their power. Perhapsss a
guardian left behind.”

 The pair spoke of something significant, but what, the counselor could not say. Taking a risk, he
interrupted. “Is there a description of this last creature?”

“Aye.” Hakkar held out one hand, palm up.

 Above his palm there suddenly burst to life a tiny image. It moved violently and often lost focus, but
revealed by bits and pieces an almost full view of the one in question.

“Ssseen through the eyesss of the felbeassst. An antlered entity asss tall asss one of the Fel Guard.”

Lord Xavius frowned. “The legend is true, then…the forest lord is real…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“You know this creature?” Mannoroth demanded.

“Ancient myth speaks of the forest lord, the demigod Cenarius. He is said to be the child of the Mother
Moon…”

“Nothing more, then.” The tusked mouth twisted into a grim smile. “He will be dealt with.” To Hakkar,
he commanded, “Show the others.”

The Houndmaster quickly obeyed, revealing a green-skinned brute of warrior, a young night elf, and an
odd, fire-haired figure clad in hooded garments.

“A curious trio,” Xavius remarked.

Mannoroth nodded. “The warrior shows much promise…I would see more of his kind, learn their
potential…”

“Such a beast? Surely not! He’s more grotesque than a dwarf!”

 The winged figure did not argue, instead recalling the last of the threesome. “A spindly creature but with
wary eyes. A creature of magic, I think. Almost like a night elf—” He cut off Xavius’s new protest.
“—but not.” Dismissing Hakkar’s images, the huge, reptilian limbs maneuvered through the chamber as
Mannoroth contemplated what he had learned.

“More felbeastsss could be sssent to find them,” suggested the Houndmaster.

“But with Fel Guard behind. This time, the objective will be capture.”

“Capture?” echoed both the counselor and the Houndmaster.

 The deepset eyes narrowed more. “They must be studied, their weaknesses and strengths assessed in
case there are others…”

“Can the Fel Guard be ssspared?”

“There will soon be many, many more. Lord night elf, are your Highborne prepared?”

Studying the sorcerers, Xavius bowed his head. “They are ready to do what they must to see the
glorious fulfillment of our dream, the cleansing of the world of all that is—”

 “The world will be cleansed, lord night elf, you may trust to that.” Mannoroth glanced at Hakkar. “I
leave the hunt to you, Houndmaster. Do not fail again.”

Keeping low, Hakkar backed away.

 “And now, lord night elf…” the towering being continued, gaze turning to the place of casting. “Let us
begin the molding of your people’s future…” Mannoroth’s wings flexed as they always seemed to do
when he contemplated something agreeable to him. “A future I promise you that they cannot possibly
even imagine…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Deathwing soared over the landscape, breathing fire everywhere. Screams came from every direction
around Krasus, but he could not find any of those who pleaded for his aid. Trapped in his tiny mortal
form, he scampered over the burning earth like a field rat, trying to keep from being engulfed while in vain
he sought to help the dying.

Suddenly a dark shadow covered the area over which he ran and a thundering voice mocked, “Well,
well! And what little morsel is this?”

Huge claws twice the size of the dragon mage encircled Krasus, trapping him. With no effort
whatsoever, they dragged him into the sky…and turned him to face the malevolent visage of Deathwing.

 “Why, it’s only a bit of old dragon meat! Korialstrasz! You’ve been around the lesser races much too
long! Their weakness has rubbed off on you!”

Krasus tried to cast a spell, but from his mouth emerged not words but tiny bats. Deathwing inhaled,
drawing the bats mercilessly into the hot, gaping maw.

The black behemoth swallowed. “Not much of a treat! I doubt you’ll be any better, but you’re already
going to waste so I might as well finish you off!” He raised the flailing figure above his gullet. “Besides,
you’re of no use to anyone, anyway!”

 The claws released Krasus, but as he plummeted into Deathwing’s mouth, things changed. Deathwing
and the burning landscape vanished. Krasus suddenly floated in the midst of a horrendous sandstorm,
spun around and around by its ever more turbulent forces.

 A dragon’s head formed in the midst of the storm. At first Krasus thought that the black beast had
followed him, determined not to let his snack escape. Then another head identical to the first appeared,
followed by another and another until an endless horde filled Krasus’s view.

“Korialstraaaasz…” they moaned simultaneously over and over. “Korialstraaasz…”

It occurred to Krasus then that the heads had a different shape to them from Deathwing’s and that each
had formed from the sandstorm itself.

Nozdormu?

“We…are ssstretched through all!” the Timeless One managed. “We…ssseee alll…”

Krasus waited, knowing that Nozdormu spoke as his efforts permitted him.

“All endsss lead to nothing! All endsss…”

 Nothing?What did he mean? Did he indicate that all the mage had feared had come to pass, that the
future had been eradicated?

“…but one…”

One! Krasus seized hold of the tiny ray of hope. “Tell me! What path? What do I do?”

In answer, the dragon heads changed. The snouts shrank and the heads elongated, becoming more
human—no! Not human—elven…
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




A night elf?

 Was this someone he should fear or someone he should seek? He tried to ask Nozdormu, but then the
storm grew wild, mad. The winds tore apart the faces, scattering the grains of sand everywhere. Krasus
tried to protect his body as sand ripped at his flesh even through his garments.

He screamed.

***

And sat up a moment later, his mouth still open in a silent scream.

“My queen, he is with us again.”

 Gradually Krasus’s mind returned to reality. The nightmare involving Deathwing and the subsequent
vision of Nozdormu still wreaked havoc with his thoughts, but he was at last able to focus enough to
realize that he lay in the egg chamber where he and Alexstrasza had first spoken. The Queen of Life
herself looked down in grave concern at him. To his right, his younger self also watched with worry.

“Your spell has passed?” Alexstrasza quietly inquired.

 This time, he was determined that she would know regardless of the consequences. Nozdormu’s
frightening words indicated that the path to the future already had all but shut. What more trouble, then,
would it be if he told her of Neltharion’s madness and the horror the black dragon would cause?

But once more, when Krasus tried to speak of the fiend, the vertigo nearly did him in. It was all he could
do to keep conscious.

“Too soon,” cautioned Alexstrasza. “You need more rest.”

 He needed much more than that. He needed the sinister and subtle spell which the Earth Warder had
evidently cast upon him removed, but clearly none of the Aspects had even recognized his condition as
one caused by sorcery. In all his incarnations, Deathwing had always been the most cunning of evils.

Unable to do anything about the black dragon, Krasus’s mind drifted to the night elf whose features
Nozdormu had attempted to show him. He recalled the ones who had attacked Rhonin and him, but
none had looked at all like this new figure.

 “How far are we from the land of the night elves?” Krasus asked…then touched his mouth in surprise
when he realized that the words had come out with no trouble. Apparently Neltharion’s handiwork only
involved the dragon himself, not any other matter of importance.

“We can take you there soon enough,” his mate replied.

“But what of the matter of which you spoke?”

 “This…this still concerns that matter, but my course has changed. I believe…I believe I have just been
contacted by the Timeless One, who tried to tell me something.”

His younger self found this too much. “You had nightmares, delusions! We heard you moan several
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




times. It is doubtful that the Aspect of Time would reach out to you. Alexstrasza, perhaps, but not you.”

“No,” corrected the red queen. “I believe he may have the truth of it, Korialstrasz. If he says that
Nozdormu touched his thoughts, I suspect he states fact.”

“I bow to your wisdom, my love.”

 “I must go to the night elves,” Krasus insisted. With Korialstrasz nearby and no intention of mentioning
Neltharion’s duplicity, his condition had improved much. “There is one I seek. I hope I am not already
too late.”

The female leviathan tilted her head to the side, her eyes seeking within Krasus’s own. “Is all you told
me before still truth? All of it?”

“It is…but I fear there is much more. The dragons—all dragons—will be needed for a struggle.”

“But with Nozdormu absent, a consensus cannot be reached. The others will not agree to anything!”

“You must convince them to go against tradition!” He forced himself to his feet. “They could very well
be all that stands between the world and oblivion!”

And with that, he told both all he could recall of the horror of the Burning Legion.

 They listened to his tales of blood, of decimation, of soulless evil. Even the two dragons shook as he
regaled them with the atrocities. By the time he had finished, Krasus had told more than enough for them
to see his fear.

 But even then, Alexstrasza said, “They may still not decide. We have watched the world, but we leave
its progress in the hands of the younger races. Even Neltharion, who is warder of the earth itself, prefers
to leave it that way.”

He so much desired to tell her of Neltharion, but even thinking that made his head swim. With a reluctant
nod, Krasus said, “I know you will do what you must.”

 “And you must do what you will. Go to the night elves and seek your answer if you think it will help this
situation.” She looked up at her consort. After a moment’s consideration, the queen added, “I ask that
you go with him, Korialstrasz. Will you do it?”

The male lowered his head in respect. “If you ask, I am only too glad to oblige.”

“I also ask that you follow his lead, my consort. Trust me when I say that he has wisdom which will be
of value to you.”

It was not entirely clear from his reptilian visage whether or not Korialstrasz believed the last, but he
nodded to that, too.

“Night has fallen,” Alexstrasza informed Krasus. “Will you wait until light?”

The dragon mage shook his head. “I have already waited far too long as it is.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The first to bear the clan designation of Ravencrest had looked upon the huge, granite formation atop the
high and treacherous mount. He had remarked to his companion how its stocky formation resembled a
piece from a chessboard, a rook colored black. That huge, dark birds constantly circled about the
formation and even nested atop it was taken as a sign that this was a special place, a place of power.

 For more than a generation—and the generations of night elves were longer than those of most
races—servants of the Ravencrest line had continually carved out the clan stronghold, gradually building
from solid rock a fortress like none seen among their kind. Black Rook Hold, as it quickly became
known, was an ominous, uncolored place which spread its influence over much of the night elf realm,
becoming second only to the palace. When conflict arose between the night elves and the dwarves, it
was the power of Black Rook Hold that tipped the balance. Those of the clan of Ravencrest became the
honored of the throne and the blood of both sides intermingled. If the Highborne who served Azshara
were jealous of any others of their race, it had to be those of the ebony fortress.

 Windows had been carved out on the top floors of the hold, but the only way to enter was by the twin
iron gates located not at the base of the structure, but at the very bottom of the hill. The solid gates were
sealed shut and well guarded. Only fools would have thought to enter there without permission.

But for the present Lord Ravencrest, those gates had opened readily. They had also opened for his three
prisoners, one of whom knew the stories of Black Rook Hold and grew worried.

 Malfurion had never thought that he would enter the dark hold, especially under such dire conditions.
Worse, he could never have imagined his twin being the main reason for his having to do so. In the
course of their journey he had learned that it was Illidan, somehow suddenly associated with Lord
Ravencrest, who had detected Rhonin’s spell. With Malfurion’s brother to aid him, the night elven
commander had ridden out with a full force, determined this time to capture any invaders.

He had been most pleased to see Brox…and quite puzzled to see Illidan’s twin.

 In a chamber lit by glittering emerald crystals positioned high in each of the five corners, Lord
Ravencrest inspected his catch. The commander sat upon a chair carved from the same stone as his hold.
The chair stood upon a dais, also stone, giving Ravencrest the ability to look down on the trio even while
seated.

Armed soldiers lined the walls of the chamber while others surrounded Malfurion and his comrades.
Ravencrest himself was flanked by his senior officers, each of whom stood with his helm in the crook of
one arm. At the noble’s immediate right waited Illidan.

Present also were two high-ranking members of the Moon Guard. They were a late addition to the
proceedings, having arrived at Black Rook Hold just as the commander had brought his prisoners to the
gates. The Moon Guard, too, had detected Rhonin’s spell, but their spies had informed them of
Ravencrest’s party before there had been any chance to send out searchers of their own. The sorcerers
were not at all pleased by the noble’s actions nor were they pleased with Illidan’s presence, he being an
unsanctioned spellcaster in their eyes.

“Once again, my Lord Ravencrest,” began the thinner, elder of the two Moon Guard, an officious figure
by the name of Latosius. “I must request that these outsiders be turned over to us for proper
questioning.”

“You’ve already had the beastman and lost him. He was to come to me, anyway. This simply shortens
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




the procedure.” The noble eyed the three again. “There’s more here than what we see on the surface.
Illidan, I would hear from you.”

Malfurion’s brother looked slightly ill at ease, but he answered strongly, “Yes, my lord, he is my
brother.”

 “That much is as obvious as night and day.” He studied the captive twin. “I know something of you, lad,
just as I know something of your brother. Your name is Malfurion, yes?”

“Yes, my lord.”

“You rescued this creature?”

“I did.”

The commander leaned forward. “And you’ve an excellent reason why? One that would excuse this
heinous act?”

“I doubt you would believe me, my lord.”

“Oh, I can come to believe many things, young one,” Lord Ravencrest replied calmly, tugging lightly on
his beard.

“If they’re spoken in honesty. Can you do that?”

“I—” What other choice did Malfurion have? Sooner or later, through one method or another, they
would pluck the truth from him. “I’ll try.”

 And so he told them of his studies under Cenarius, which immediately raised doubtful brows. He
explained his reoccurring dreams and how the demigod had taught him to walk in the world of the
subconscious. Most of all, Malfurion described the disconcerting forces that had drawn him to, of all
places, Zin-Azshari, and the palace of the night elves’ beloved queen.

 They listened as he told of the Well itself and the turbulence that the sorcerers within the palace had
stirred up. He painted for Ravencrest, the Moon Guard, and the others the vision of the tower and what
he sensed went on inside.

The one thing he did not mention, assuming that from his story it would be obvious, was his fear that
Queen Azshara sanctioned everything.

 Ravencrest did not comment on his story, instead looking to the Moon Guard. “Has your order noticed
any such trouble?”

The elder sorcerer answered. “The Well is more turbulent than usual and that could be from misuse. We
have not monitored any such activity from Zin-Azshari, but then, such an incredible fiction as this—”

“Yes, it is incredible.” The bearded commander glanced up at Illidan. “What say you concerning your
brother?”

 “He’s never been one for delusions, my lord.” Illidan would not look at Malfurion. “As to whether it’s
the truth…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Indeed. Still, I wouldn’t put it past Lord Xavius and the Highborne to instigate some devilment without
her knowledge. They act as if the queen is their prized possession and no one else has a right to her.”

 Even by the Moon Guard, this was greeted with nods. The arrogance of the lord counselor and those
surrounding Azshara in the palace was well known.

“If I may,” Latosius interjected. “Once we’ve settled matters here, I will pass on word to the heads of
our order. They will put into motion surveillance of the Highborne and their activities.”

“I should be most interested in that. Young Malfurion, your story—on the assumption that it is for the
most part truth—explains some of your actions, but how does that fit into the freeing of a prisoner of your
people, a most serious crime?”

“I can perhaps answer that better,” Rhonin suddenly said.

 Malfurion was not so sure it was a good thing that the other outsider spoke. Night elves were not so
tolerant of other races and although Rhonin had some vague resemblance to his kind, he still might as well
have been a troll for all the good it would do him.

But Ravencrest appeared willing to listen, if nothing else. He waved a negligent hand toward the hooded
wizard.

 “In my land…a land not far from where he’s from,” explained Rhonin, nodding toward Brox. “A strange
magical anomaly opened up. My people sent me and Brox’s sent him. We both discovered it
separately…and were drawn unwilling through it. He ended one place, I another.”

“And how does this pertain to young Malfurion?”

“He believes…as I do…that this anomaly was caused by the spellwork mentioned.”

“That would be some cause for alarm,” commented the senior Moon Guard dubiously. “The
green-skinned creature hardly seems what one would send to study a creation of sorcery or magic.”

“My Warchief commanded I go,” retorted Brox with a defiant snarl. “I went.”

“I cannot speak for the orcs,” Rhonin answered. “But I am certainly adept at such a study.” His eyes, so
different from those of the night elves, dared the Moon Guard to deny him.

 After a pause, both sorcerers nodded their agreement. Malfurion realized that they did not know what
exactly Rhonin was, but they recognized one versed in the arts. Indeed, it was likely for that reason that
the wizard had been allowed to speak at all.

 “Perhaps I’m growing old, but I’m inclined to believe much of all this.” This admission from Lord
Ravencrest drew some looks from his officers and sent a wave of relief through Malfurion. If the
commander took their story to heart—

“We remain undecided,” Latosius declared. “Such information cannot be taken on faith alone. There
must still be an inner interrogation.”

The noble’s brow rose. “Did I say otherwise?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




He snapped his fingers and the guards seized Malfurion tightly by the arms, dragging him toward the
dais.

 “Now I would like to test the faith I’ve placed in my new sorcerer. Illidan, we must ascertain the
absolute truth, however distasteful that might seem to you. I trust I can rely on you to prove to us thatall
your brother says is true?”

 The pony-tailed night elf swallowed, then looked beyond Malfurion. “My brother’s word I trust, but I
can’t say the same for the robed creature, my lord.”

Illidan was trying to keep from having to use his powers on his brother by instead focusing on an
outsider. While Malfurion appreciated that concern, he did not like the idea of Rhonin or Brox suffering in
his place.

 “Lord commander, this is absurd!” The senior sorcerer marched up to the dais, eyeing Illidan with
contempt. “An un-sanctioned spellcaster who is the brother of one of the prisoners? Any questioning will
be suspect!” He turned on Malfurion, silver eyes narrowed menacingly at the younger night elf. “In
accordance with the laws set down at the very dawn of our civilization, in matters magical it is the
responsibility and right of the Moon Guard to oversee all such interrogations!”

 He advanced, coming within arm’s reach of the prisoner. Malfurion tried not to show his anxiety. Against
the physical threats of Black Rook Hold, he hoped his druidic training would allow him to survive, but the
delving of a sorcerer into his mind threatened him much more. Such a questioning could leave his body
whole, but his brain so shattered that he might never recover.

Illidan leapt down from the dais. “My lord, I’ll interrogate my brother.”

 Whatever his twin would do to him, Malfurion suspected that Illidan would be much more careful in his
approach than the Moon Guard, who only wanted answers. Malfurion looked at Lord Ravencrest,
hoping that the noble would accept Illidan’s offer.

 But the master of Black Rook Hold only leaned back against his chair, stating, “The laws shall be
followed. He is yours, Moon Guard…but only if you do the questioning here and now.”

“That is agreed.”

“Consider, in your work, that he may be telling the truth.”

It was the closest Malfurion guessed Ravencrest would come to trying to preserve Illidan’s twin from
harm. First and foremost the bearded commander was protector of the realm. If that cost the life or mind
of one night elf, then the sacrifice had to be made.

“The truth will be known,” was all the sorcerer would answer. To the guards, he commanded, “Hold his
head straight.”

 One of the armored figures positioned Malfurion for the Moon Guard. The robed figure reached up and
touched the struggling prisoner’s temples with his index fingers.

A shock ran through Malfurion and he was certain that he screamed. His thoughts swirled around, old
memories rising to the surface unbidden. Yet, each one was swiftly thrust back down as what felt like a
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




clawed hand dug into his mind, seeking ever deeper…

 Struggle not!commanded a harsh voice that had to be that of Latosius.Release your secrets and it will go
the better for you!

 Malfurion wanted to, but did not know how. He thought of what he had already told the gathering and
tried to project that forward. Of Azshara’s possible duplicity, Malfurion still resisted revealing. It would
lessen his chances of ever being believed if that suspicion leaked free—

Then, just as suddenly as the intrusive probe had bur rowed into his thoughts…it ceased. It did not
withdraw, did not gradually fade away. It simply ceased.

Malfurion’s legs buckled. He would have fallen if not for the guards holding him.

 Gradually he became aware of shouts, some in disbelief, others in consternation. One of the voices most
strident sounded like that of the elder Moon Guard.

“It’s outrageous!” someone else cried out. “Surely not the queen!”

“Never!”

He had let slip his ultimate fear. Malfurion cursed his feeble mind. Barely had the questioning begun and
he had already failed himself, failed Cenarius’s teaching…

“ ’Tis the Highborne! It has to be! This is Xavius’s doing!” another voice insisted

“He has committed evil against his own kind!” agreed the First.

 What were they talking about? Although Malfurion’s head refused to clear, he still felt certain that
something was not right about the shouted conversation. The speakers were too excited, reacting too
adamantly to his beliefs. He was only one night elf and not even of high rank. Why would his vague
suspicions throw them into growing panic?

 “Let me see to him,” a voice said. Malfurion felt the guards hand him over to a single person, who
lowered him gently to the floor.

Hands touched the sides of his face, lifting it up. Through bleary eyes, Malfurion met the gaze of his
brother.

“Why didn’t you give in immediately?” Illidan muttered.

“Two hours! Do you still have a mind left?”

“Two—hours?”

Noting the response, Illidan breathed easier. “Praise Elune! After you spouted that nonsense about the
queen, that old fool was determined to rip everything out of your head regardless of the cost! If not for
his spell failing suddenly, he probably would have left you an empty husk! They haven’t forgiven the loss
of their brethren and blame you for it!”

“H-his spell failed?” That hardly made sense. Malfurion’s interrogator had been a most senior sorcerer.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Allof their spells have failed!” Illidan persisted. “After he lost control of the first, he tried another and
when that didn’t work, his companion attempted a third…with no success!”

 Malfurion still did not understand. What his twin hinted at sounded as if both of the Moon Guard had
lost their powers. “They can’t cast?”

 “No…and my own powers feel muted…” He leaned next to Malfurion’s ear. “I think I have some
control…but barely. It’s as if we’ve been cut off from the Well!”

The commotion continued to grow. He heard Lord Ravencrest demand if the Moon Guard still
maintained contact with their brethren, to which one of the sorcerers admitted that the ever-present link
had been severed. The noble then asked of his own followers if any still retained their own skills,
however slight.

No one answered in the affirmative.

“It’s begun…” Malfurion whispered without thinking.

“Hmm?” His twin frowned. “What’s that? What has?”

 He looked past Illidan, recalling the violent forces carelessly summoned by those in the tower. He saw
again the lack of regard for what such spellwork might do to those beyond the palace walls.

“I don’t know…” Malfurion finally told his brother. “I wish by the Mother Moon I did…but I just
don’t.” Beyond Illidan he saw the concerned countenances of Brox and Rhonin. Whether or not they
understood as he did, both looked as if they shared his growing fear. “I only know that, whatever it may
be…it’sbegun.”



 All over the realm of the night elves, all over the continent of Kalimdor, thousands of others sensed the
loss. The Well had been cut off from them. The power that they had so blithely wielded…was all but
gone. A sense of alarm swiftly grew, for it was as if someone had reached up and just stolen the moon.

Those living nearest to the palace naturally turned to their queen, calling upon Azshara for guidance.
They waited before the bolted gates, gathering in greater and greater numbers. Above, the sentries
watched blank-faced, neither moving to open the gates nor calling down to calm the growing crowd.

 Only after more than half the night had passed and most of the city had emptied out into the areas before
the palace did the gates finally open. The people poured forward, relieved. They were certain that
Azshara had finally come out in response to their pleas.

 But what emerged from within the palace walls was not the queen, nor was it anything ever imagined in
the night elf world.

And so fell the first victims of the Burning Legion.

NINETEEN
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Awave of vertigo struck Krasus, the attack so unexpected that it nearly cost him his life. Only moments
before, he had felt much his old self, that due in great part to his immediate proximity to Korialstrasz. The
dragon now carried him swiftly toward the general direction of Cenarius’s glade, although not near
enough that the demigod might notice. A determination to find this one night elf Nozdormu had revealed
to him had further fueled the mage—and that was why the sudden vertigo had caught him so off guard
that he had nearly fallen from the dragon’s neck.

Korialstrasz adjusted for him at the last moment, but Krasus’s younger self also seemed oddly
disoriented.

“Do you fare better?” the dragon roared to him.

 “I am…recouping.” Krasus peered into the night sky, trying to make sense of what had just happened.
He searched his ragged memories, finally coming up with a possible answer. “My friend, do you know of
the night elves’ capital city?”

“Zin-Azshari? I am vaguely familiar with it.”

“Veer toward there.”

“But your quest—”

Krasus was adamant. “Do it now. I believe it is of the utmost importance that we go there.”

 His younger self grumbled something, but arced toward the direction of Zin-Azshari. Leaning forward,
Krasus peered ahead, awaiting the first signs of the legendary city. If memory served him—and he could
not be certain that it did—Zin-Azshari had been the culmination of the night elf civilization, a grand,
sprawling metropolis the likes of which would never be seen again. However, the opulence of the ancient
city was not what interested him. What concerned Krasus was his recollection of Zin-Azshari’s nearness
to the fabled Well of Eternity.

 And it was the Well that now drew him. Although the origins of the Burning Legion’s first entrance into
the world was lost to him, Krasus still retained a sharp enough mind to make some fairly accurate
assumptions. In this time period, the Wellwas power, and power was not only what the demons sought,
but also what enabled them to reach the very realms that they destroyed.

 Where more likely to find the portal through which the Burning Legion wouldhave to arrive than in the
immediate proximity of the greatest fount of sorcerous energy ever known?

 They soared across the night sky, Korialstrasz flying mile after mile in the space of only minutes. Even
still, hours passed, precious hours that Krasus suspected the world could not afford.

At last, the dragon called, “We will soon be in sight of Zin-Azshari! What do you hope to see?”

It was more what he hoped not to see, but Krasus could not explain that to his companion. “I do not
know.”

 Ahead appeared lights, countless lights. He frowned. Of course the night elves would have illumination
for some of their activities, but there seemed too many for a realm of nocturnal beings. Even a city as
great in size as Zin-Azshari would not be so bright.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 But as the duo neared, they saw that the illumination came not from torchlight or crystals—but from
raging fires coursing throughout the night elven capital.

“The city is ablaze!” roared Korialstrasz. “What could have started such an inferno?”

“We need to descend,” was all Krasus replied.

The red dragon dipped, dropping hundreds of feet. Now details became visible. Elaborate, colorful
buildings burned, some of them already collapsing. Sculptured gardens and massive tree homes had
become pyres.

And scattered throughout the streets lay the bodies of the dead.

They had been brutally slaughtered, with no compassion given for the elderly, the infirm, or the young.
Many had died in clusters while others had clearly been hunted down one by one. In addition to the
populace of Zin-Azshari, a variety of animals, especially the great night sabers, lay dead as well, their
demises no less foul.

“There has been war here!” snarled the winged leviathan.

“No—not war! This is genocide!”

“This is the work of the Burning Legion,” Krasus muttered to himself.

 Korialstrasz veered toward the city center. Curiously, the damage lessened as they neared what looked
to be the palace. In fact, certain walled sections of the center appeared completely untouched.

“What do you know of these sections?” Krasus asked his mount.

 “Little, but I believe that those linked by walls to the queen’s palace belong to what are referred to as
the ‘Highborne.’ They are considered the most esteemed of the night elves, all somehow involved directly
in service to her majesty, Azshara.”

“Circle once around them.”

Korialstrasz did. Studying the vicinity, Krasus had his suspicions verified. None of the quarter that
housed the regal Highborne had been touched in the slightest by the monstrous disaster.

“There is movement to the northwest, Krasus!”

“Fly there! Quickly!”

He need not have encouraged his companion, for Korialstrasz clearly sought the answers as much as he.
Not at all surprising, considering that they were one and the same.

 Krasus now saw what the dragon’s superior vision had already noted. A wave of movement, almost like
locusts, pouring through the city. Korialstrasz descended further, enabling the pair to identify individuals.

And for Krasus, it was the return of evil.

The Burning Legion marched relentlessly through Zin-Azshari, leaving nothing untouched in their wake.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Buildings fell before their might. There were the tall, brutal Fel Guard with their maces and shields.
Mindless Infernals battering their way through stone walls or any other physical opposition. Near them
hovered huge, winged figures with blazing green swords, molten armor, and cloven feet…the
Doomguard.

 As the dragon moved toward the front of the horde, Krasus identified the houndlike felbeasts, ever the
precursors of the Legion. They seemed especially active; not only were their noses raised high to smell
the air, but the sinister tentacles with which they absorbed magic darted forward eagerly.

And then the mage saw what the Legion hunted.

 Refugees swarmed from the city’s center, families and individuals creating a desperate flow through the
narrow avenues. At their rear, trying to keep the demons at bay, were a small contingent of armored
soldiers and a few robed figures that Krasus believed to be the legendary Moon Guard.

 Even as the two neared, one of the Moon Guard in the forefront attempted to cast a spell. But by
placing himself in the open, he only served to add to the list of victims. One of the felbeasts leapt forward,
landing just before the sorcerer. Its tentacles shot forth with astonishing speed.

 They adhered to the spellcaster’s chest, physically lifting him into the air. Before anyone—even Krasus
and Korialstrasz—could come to his aid, the thrashing Moon Guard sorcerer was drained of his magical
forces…leaving a dead, dry husk in his place.

 The red dragon roared. Had he even wanted to, Krasus could not have stopped his younger self from
taking reprisals. In truth, his own memories of such horror kept the mage quiet. Too many had perished
because of the Legion and even though by Krasus’s interference Korialstrasz had come here, the former
no longer cared. He had tried to keep from wreaking any more havoc on the time line, but enough was
enough.

It was time for retribution.

 As Korialstrasz swept past the front ranks of the demonic host, he let loose with a great blast of flame.
The stream of fire engulfed not only the felbeast that had slain the sorcerer, but many of the pack
following. Whining, the few survivors retreated, some singed badly.

 Korialstrasz did not pause. He turned now to face the main horde, a second wave of fire enveloping the
foremost demons.

 Most perished instantly. A few of the more hardy Fel Guard struggled through the flames, only to
collapse shortly after from their fiery wounds. One blazing Infernal sought to bat out the dragonfire and,
when that did not work, ran headlong into a building, possibly in some vague hope that doing so would
smother the flames. Seconds later, it, too, collapsed.

 Even the Burning Legion could not stand the pure might of a dragon, but that did not make them
defenseless. Up from their ranks suddenly flew a score of Doomguard. Krasus noticed them first and,
though well aware of the risk, cast a quick spell.

 Winds buffeted the foremost demons, throwing them back into the rest. The Doomguard became
entangled with one another.

Korialstrasz let loose another breath.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Five of the winged terrors plummeted to the ground, fiery missiles that further inflicted damage on the
horde below.

The rest of the Doomguard regrouped. Others shot up into the sky, doubling the numbers.

 Korialstrasz clearly desired to face them, but Krasus abruptly felt the telltale warning signs of weakness.
As Alexstrasza had said, together the two were nearly complete—but not quite. The added use of their
strength depleted both quicker than normal. Already the dragon flew more slowly, less smoothly, even if
he did not recognize that fact.

“We must leave!” Krasus insisted.

“Abandon the fight? Never!”

 “The refugees have made good their escape thanks to us!” The delay had been just enough for the night
elves to scatter into the lands beyond. Krasus had every confidence that they could keep ahead of the
Legion at this point. “We must get word to those who can do more! We must continue on our original
path!”

It pained Krasus to speak so, for in his heart he would have wanted to burn to ash every demon in sight,
but even now, more and more flew up to deal with the lone dragon.

 With a roar of frustration, Korialstrasz unleashed one final blast that destroyed three of the Doomguard
and sent the others fluttering back. The red behemoth then turned and flew off, easily outpacing the
Legion despite his growing exhaustion.

 As they soared past the palace again, Krasus saw with horror that more demons poured from its gates.
Most disconcerting, however, were the night elven sentries that still stood guard on the battlements,
warriors who seemed to have no regard at all for the desperate straits in which their fellow citizens found
themselves.

 Krasus had seen such blatant disregard in the face of horror before. There had been those during the
second war who had acted in the same horrifyingly indifferent manner.They are mesmerized by the
demons’ growing influence! If the lords of the Legion have not set foot on the mortal plane already, it
cannot be long at all before they do!

 And when that happened, he feared that there would be no future for the world…nor, in this case, even
a past.



There were dreadful noises disturbing her relaxation. Azshara had ordered music played for her in the
hopes that it would drown out the objectionable noises, but the lyres and flutes had failed miserably.
Finally, she rose and, with her new bodyguards surrounding her, gracefully wended her way through the
palace.

It was not Lord Xavius but rather Captain Varo’then whom first she met. The captain fell down on one
knee and clasped a fist against his heart.

“Your wondrous majesty…”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“My darling captain, what is the cause of such awful clamor?”

The scarred night elf looked up at her with a veiled expression. “Perhaps it’d be easier to show it to
you.”

“Very well.”

 He led her to a balcony overlooking the main area of the city. Azshara rarely came to this balcony save
for public displays, much preferring the view of her extravagant gardens from her chambers or the
glimpses of the Well of Eternity that her visits to the tower offered her.

 But the sight before the queen was not the one to which she had grown so accustomed. Azshara’s
golden eyes drank in the images of her city, the ruined structures, the endless fires, and the bodies littering
the streets. She glanced to her right, where the walled quarter of the Highborne still stood peacefully.

“Explain this to me, Captain Varo’then.”

“It’s been told to me by the counselor that these have proven unworthy. To fully prepare for a world of
perfection, all the imperfect must be swept away.”

“And those below were considered lacking in the judgment of Lord Xavius?”

“With the recommendation of the great one’s most trusted servant, the celestial commander,
Mannoroth.”

Azshara had briefly met the imposing Mannoroth and, as with her counselor, she had been overwhelmed
by the great one’s high servant.

The queen nodded. “If Mannoroth says it must be so, it must be so. Sacrifices are always required in the
name of glorious pursuits, I always think.”

Varo’then bowed his head. “Your wisdom is boundless.”

 The queen accepted his compliment with the regal aplomb with which she took themany compliments
she received on a daily basis. Still gazing at the carnage below, Azshara asked, “Will it be long, then?
Will the great one soon come, too?”

“He will, my queen…and it’s said that Mannoroth has called himSargeras.”

 “Sargeras…” Queen Azshara tasted the name, ran it across her lips. “Sargeras…truly a fit name for a
god!” She put a hand to her breast. “I trust I will be given advance warning when he makes his entrance.
I would be deeply disappointed if I could not be there to greet him myself.”

 “I shall see to it personally that all is done to give you fair warning,” Varo’then said, then bowed.
“Forgive me, my queen, duty demands my attention now.”

 She waved a negligent hand, still fascinated by both the scene below and the true name of the god. The
captain left her alone with her bodyguards.

In her mind, Azshara began picturing the world that would replace what had been decimated. A more
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




magnificent city, a true monument to her glory. It would no longer be called Zin-Azshari, as gracious as
the people had been to name it that. No, next time it would simply be calledAzshara. How much more
appropriate a title that was for the home of the queen.Azshara. She said it twice, admiring the way it
sounded. She should have requested the change long ago, but that did not matter now.

 Then another, more intriguing thought entered her mind. True, she was the most perfect of her race, the
icon of her people, but there was one who was even more glorious, more magnificent…and soon he
would come.

His name was Sargeras.

“Sargeras…” she whispered. “Sargeras the god…” An almost childlike smile crossed her face. “…and
his consort, Azshara…”

***

Messengers arrived at Black Rook Hold at the rate of one every few minutes. All demanded to see the
master of the hold immediately, for each had news of import.

And every missive to Lord Ravencrest boiled down to the same dire news.

 Sorcery had been all but stolen from the night elves. Even the most skilled could do little. In addition,
other spells that constantly relied on drawing from the Well to keep them maintained had failed, in one or
two places with catastrophic results. Everywhere, panic ensued and it was all officials could do to keep
chaos from erupting.

From the most important place itself, from those regions near Zin-Azshari…there had been no word.

Until now.

The messenger brought in by the sentries could barely stand. His armor had been in part ripped from his
body and bloody scars covered his flesh. He staggered before Lord Ravencrest, falling to one knee.

“Has he been given food and water?” the noble asked. When no one could answer, he growled out an
order to one of the soldiers standing near the entrance. Within seconds, sustenance was brought for the
newcomer.

 Among those waiting impatiently were Rhonin and the others. They had gone from being prisoners to
some undefinable status. Not allies, but not outsiders. The wizard had chosen to remain silent and in the
back of the throng, the better to ensure that his status did not slip back to prisoner.

“Can you speak now?” Ravencrest rumbled to the messenger once the latter had eaten some fruit and
drunken almost half a sack of water.

“Aye…forgive me, my lord…for not being able to do so earlier.”

“Judging by your condition, I find it hard to believe you actually even made it here…”

 The night elf kneeling before him looked around at the others assembled. Rhonin noted how hollow his
eyes had become. “I find it hard to believe I’m here myself…my lord.” He coughed several times. “My
lord…I come to tell you…that I believe it…it is the end of our world.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The flat tone with which he said the last only served to add to its horrific impact. Dead silence filled the
chamber. Rhonin recalled what Malfurion had said before.It’s begun. Even Malfurion had not understood
what he meant, only that he knew that something terrible was taking place.

“What do you mean?” persisted Ravencrest, leaning close. “Did you receive some terrible message from
Zin-Azshari? Did they bid you to relay this monstrous announcement?”

“My lord…I comefrom Zin-Azshari.”

 “Impossible!” interjected Latosius. “By the best physical means it would take three to five nights and
sorcery is not available—”

 “Iknow what was available better than you!” snapped the soldier, disregarding the Moon Guard’s high
rank. To Lord Ravencrest, he said, “I was sent to plead for help! Those whocould funneled what little
power they could gather to send me here! They may be dead…” He swallowed. “I may be the only one
to survive…”

“The city, lad! What of the city?”

“My lord…Zin-Azshari is in ruins, overrun by blood-thirsty fiends, creatures out of nightmare!”

 The story flowed from the messenger like a wound beyond sealing. Like all other night elves, those of
the capital had been stunned by the abrupt and inexplicable loss of nearly all their power. Many had gone
to the palace to seek reassurances. The crowds had swelled to hundreds.

 And then from the palace had poured out an endless multitude of monstrous warriors, some horned,
some winged, all armed and eager to slaughter those in their midst. In seconds, people had died by the
scores, no quarter given. Fear followed and others were trampled by those who sought to escape.

“We ran, my lord, all of us. I can only speak for those who fled in my direction, but even the most
hardened warriors did not long stand.”

But the demonic horde followed, catching those who could not keep up the pace. Scattered groups
managed to flee out of the city, but even there the fiends hunted them.

 No one interrupted his tale. No one argued that he suffered delusions. They all read the truth in his eyes
and voice.

 The messenger then described how he came to be here. A group of Moon Guard and officers had put
their heads together, trying to come up with some defense or course of action. It had been determined
that Black Rook Hold had to be informed and by lot that duty had fallen to the soldier present.

“They warned that the spell might not work as planned, that I could instead be sent to the bottom of the
Well or even back to the c-city…” He shrugged. “I saw little choice…”

With tremendous strain, the spellcasters had begun their work. He had stood in the middle as they
gathered up what little energy they could. The world had begun to fade around him—

And just as he had vanished, he had seen the monstrous hounds leaping upon the party.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“I landed some distance north of here, my lord, battered but alive. It took some time to reach an outpost
where I could obtain a night saber…and then I headed to y-you as best I could.”

 A much subdued Ravencrest slumped back. “And the palace? The palace, too, is in ruins? All
slaughtered there?”

The messenger hesitated, then said, “My lord, there were sentries atop the walls. They watched the
people before the gates opened…and then they watched the monsters come out and butcher all of us!”

“The queen would never allow that!” spouted one of the noble’s officers. Others nodded agreement, but
many kept their opinions hidden.

Their commander had his own notion as to what such news meant. His expression already grim, he
muttered, “It’s as we believed, then. This must be the work of the Highborne.”

 “Surely even they would not be so insane!” Latosius argued. “True, their sorcerers think themselves
superior even to the Moon Guard, but they are night elves just like us!”

 “So we would believe, but their arrogance knows no bounds!” Ravencrest slammed his fist on the arm
of his stone chair. “And let us not forget that the Highborne obey the dictates of the lord
counselor…Xavius!”

Rhonin had heard the name mentioned prior, but now the venom with which it was repeated stunned
him. He leaned by Malfurion, asking, “Who is this Xavius?”

 Malfurion had much recovered, thanks in great part to his twin’s aid. With some slight help from Brox,
he now stood next to the others. “He who whispers in the queen’s ear. Her most trusted advisor and a
rival of Lord Ravencrest. I don’t doubt myself that Xavius is involved, but he couldn’t do this without
Azshara’s compliance! Even the Highborne worship her!”

“They’ll never believe that,” Illidan remarked. “Forget that for now! Let them think it’s the counselor!
Their choices will still be the same in the end!”

Although he did not exactly trust Illidan, Rhonin had to agree with the other night elf in this regard.

 And it seemed that the choice of villains had already been made. Ravencrest stood, shouting to the
others in attendance. His officers jammed their helmets on as if ready to go and ride out toward the
capital immediately.

“All Moon Guard, all spellcasters of any reasonable ability, should be gathered as quickly as possible!
Garo’thal! Send out messengers to every military post and commander! Resistance must be organized!
This foul situation must be contained!”

 Latosius confronted the noble. “Something must be done to regain the use of the Well! Force of arms
alone will not stand against those monsters! You heard the messenger!”

 The bearded noble thrust his face into that of the Moon Guard. “I hope to have some sorcery at hand,
especially from your vaunted order, but, otherwise, force of arms is all we really have at the moment,
isn’t it?”

Illidan suddenly abandoned his brother and the rest. “My lord, I feel I may be of some aid! I still have
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




some ability for casting spells!”

“Splendid! We’ll need it! Zin-Azshari must be avenged, and the queen freed from the Highborne!”

 Rhonin could not stand still. He had seen what the Burning Legion could do and, even though this was all
in his past, he could not stand by as Krasus hoped. Within him he still sensed the ability to summon
magic, use it as he willed. “My Lord Ravencrest!”

The noble looked him over, clearly not yet certain what to make of him. “What do you want?”

“You need someone who can cast spells. I offer myself.”

Ravencrest looked doubtful.

In response, the wizard summoned a ball of blue light over his left palm. It took him more effort than
usual, but not enough that he showed that effort.

 The commander’s expression of doubt melted away. “Aye, you’re welcome to our ranks—” Out of the
corner of his eye, he must have noticed Latosius about to object. “Especially since little else has been
offered to us.”

“If whatever spell cuts us off from the Well’s strength can be but removed—”

“Which would require sorcery of some magnitude in the first place…and if you could do that, Moon
Guard, we wouldn’t have a problem at all!”

***

As he listened to them argue, Malfurion’s heart sank deeper. Such bickering served no good cause.
Action was what was called for, but with little in the way of any sort of magic to back up Lord
Ravencrest’s intended military force, the future looked dark, indeed. If only—

His eyes widened. Perhaps he could do something.

As his brother and Rhonin had done before him, Malfurion stepped up to the noble. Ravencrest eyed
him with some disbelief.

“And now you? You plan to offer sorcery such as Illidan here claims to still wield? I would welcome it if
you have it, regardless of your past crimes.”

“I offer not sorcery, Lord Ravencrest, but a magic of a different sort. I offer what has been taught to me
by my shan’do, Cenarius.”

Latosius laughed mockingly. “This is the worst jest yet! The teachings of a mythical demigod?”

But Ravencrest did not dismiss Malfurion out of hand. “You truly believe you can be of some aid?”

The younger night elf hesitated, then said, “Yes, but not from here. I need to go somewhere…quieter.”

The noble’s brow furrowed. “Quieter?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Malfurion nodded. “I must go to the temple of Elune.”

 “The temple of the Mother Moon? I hadn’t even thought of them. Their support is definitely needed in
this time of crisis—but what do you hope to achieve there?”

Trying to keep his uncertainty hidden, Malfurion Stormrage answered, “The removal of the spell that
keeps the Well of Eternity’s power from our sorcerers, of course.”

TWENTY


All was well in the world…for Lord Xavius, anyway.

His dreams, his goals, were well within reach.

 Better yet, the great one was quite pleased with him. The shield spell that he and Mannoroth had set into
motion had not only succeeded in sealing the Well’s might from all but the Highborne, it had also enabled
them to widen and solidify the portal. In the space of only a few scant hours, hundreds of the celestial
host had poured through.

 Mannoroth had immediately taken control of them, sending them out to purge the unfit. Once, Xavius
might have found that idea horrific, but he now fully embraced the ways and methods of Sargeras. The
god knew best how to achieve the perfect paradise the counselor sought. Had not the quarter reserved
for the homes of the Highborne been completely spared? From those who served the palace would arise
the new Golden Age of the night elf race, an era eclipsing any existing prior to it.

Lord Xavius had been granted the further honor of monitoring the work that made all this possible. He
kept in delicate balance the spell that constantly regenerated the shield. The labor required had been
more than even Mannoroth had planned and if the spell failed now, it would be near impossible to repeat
without effectively sealing the portal first and using the combined might of all the Highborne sorcerers.

 But Xavius had no intention of letting any disaster befall the precious shield. Not that he expected any
trouble. What could happen here in the heart of the palace?

A brooding figure stalked into the chamber, peering around impatiently.

“Where isss Mannoroth?” hissed the Houndmaster.

“He commands the host, of course,” responded the night elf. “He goes to clear Zin-Azshari of the unfit.”

Something in Hakkar’s expression momentarily disturbed Xavius. Almost it seemed that the counselor
had said something that the Houndmaster found amusing. What that could be, though, the night elf could
not possibly say.

 Through the portal materialized four more of the Fel Guard. One of the even more menacing Doomguard
stood nearby. He barked something in an unknown tongue to the newcomers, who immediately marched
out of the chamber.

 The celestial host moved with remarkable military precision, instantly obedient to orders and constantly
aware of their duties. Even Captain Varo’then’s elite Guard paled in comparison, at least in Lord
Xavius’s mind.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“How fare preparations for the hunt?” the counselor asked Hakkar.

 The hint of mockery left the hulking figure’s expression. “It goesss well, lord night elf. My houndsss and
the Fel Guard who run with them have their explicit ordersss. Thossse that Mannoroth desssiresss
captured will be.”

He turned and stalked out of the room, leaving in his wake an oddly satisfied Lord Xavius. While he
much respected the status of the Houndmaster, the night elf now saw himself closer in rank to the great
one’s commander.

The counselor looked once again at the spell of which he

 had been an integral part. Only a few yards from the portal, the cluster of blue, flashing nodules over the
diagram Mannoroth had drawn were the only physical signs of the shield spell. With his magical eyes,
however, Xavius could make out other swirling patterns in orange, yellow, green, and more. A powerful
cornucopia of magical forces of which he was now in control.

Just as he was now in control of the destiny of not only his own people…but the rest of the world as
well.



 The temple of Elune did not need to be warned of the catastrophe that had befallen the realm of the night
elves. They had not personally been touched by the Well’s loss, but they could still sense the sudden
emptiness. When throngs came to the various temples to ask for guidance, the priestesses throughout the
realm conversed with one another through methods utilized since the Mother Moon had first touched the
heart of her initial convert, discussing what could be done. They chose to invite the people in for mass
prayer, let Elune give them comfort. They also searched with their skills in the direction of the Well…but
like the Moon Guard, they could not divine just what had happened.

 Yet, even though they still retained the gifts granted them by their goddess, that did not mean the
priestesses were safe from the horror unleashed soon afterward. When the Legion overran the temples in
the capital, even those as far away as Suramar felt the deaths of their sisters there, felt their agonies as the
horde slaughtered them without mercy.



 “Sister,” one of the other priestesses called to Tyrande, who had been pouring water for the faithful.
“There is one at the front entrance who requests to see you.”

 “Thank you, sister.” Tyrande handed the jug to another priestess, then hurried off. She could only
assume that Illidan had come to see her again. Tyrande dreaded speaking with him, unsure what she
would say if he brought up a possible match between them.

Yet, it was not Illidan, but rather another she had not thought to see for a very, very long time.

 “Malfurion!” Without realizing what she did, Tyrande threw her arms around him, hugging Malfurion
tightly.

His cheeks darkening, he whispered, “It’s good to see you, Tyrande.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




She released him. “How did you come to be here?” A sudden fear arose within her. “Broxigar? What
have they done with—”

 “He’s with me.” Malfurion pointed behind himself, where Tyrande saw that the orc waited in a dark
corner near the entrance. The monstrous warrior looked quite uncomfortable as he eyed the many night
elves.

She glanced around but saw no guards other than those of the temple. “Malfurion! What madness brings
you here? Did the two of you sneak back into the city just to see me?”

“No…we were captured.”

“But if—”

He gently put a finger to her lips, silencing her. “That story must wait. You know of the terror in
Zin-Azshari?”

 “Only some…and even that’s too much! Malfurion, theterror we felt in the minds and souls of our sisters
there! Something dreadful—”

 “Listen to me! It spreads beyond the capital even as we speak. What’s worse, now the Moon Guard
are helpless against it! Some spell all but cuts off the Well’s power from them!”

She nodded. “So we have surmised…but what does that have to do with your coming here?”

“Is the Chamber of the Moon in use now?”

She thought. “It was earlier, but so many have come for guidance that the high priestess had the main
worship chamber opened instead. The Chamber of the Moon may be empty now.”

 “Good. We need to go there.” He signaled Brox, who hurried over. To Tyrande’s astonishment, the orc
even carried an ax.

“You were captured…” she reminded Malfurion.

“Lord Ravencrest saw no more reason to detain us, providing Brox stayed with me.”

“I owe you both,” reminded the broad-shouldered warrior. “I owe my life.”

“You owe us nothing,” Illidan’s brother returned. To Tyrande he said, “Please take us to the chamber.”

 With her in the lead, they headed into the temple. Despite Brox’s attempt to stay as close to his
companions as possible, he could not hide his appearance from those night elves gathered inside. Many
looked in horror at him and some even screamed, pointing at the orc as if he was the one responsible for
their turmoil.

Guards caught up to them just as they neared the Chamber of the Moon. The foremost was the one who
had spoken with Tyrande about Illidan.

“Sister…it is the custom to allow any entry into the Mother Moon’s temple, but that creature—”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Elune says that he does not have the same right as any other believer?”

 The sentries looked uncertainly at one another, the first finally replying, “It does not say exactly anything
about other races in that regard, but—”

“But are not all the children of Elune? Does he not have the right to come to her for guidance, make use
of all facets of the temple?”

There was no answer to this. Finally, the lead guard waved them by. “Just please keep him from sight as
much as possible. There is already enough panic out there.”

Tyrande nodded gratefully. “I understand.”

 As they entered, they found only two other acolytes in attendance. Tyrande immediately walked up to
the pair and explained the need for privacy, pointing specifically at Brox. In truth, the orc’s presence was
all that was needed to encourage the other sisters to quickly retreat.

Returning to Malfurion, she asked, “What do you hope to do?”

“I intend to walk the Emerald Dream again, Tyrande.”

She did not like the sound of that at all. “You plan to journey to Zin-Azshari!”

“Yes. There I hope to learn the truth about what has been done to the Well.”

 Tyrande knew him better. “You don’t hope to simply learn the truth, Malfurion; I think you intend todo
something about it…”

Instead of replying, he studied the center of the chamber. “That seems the most tranquil location.”

“Malfurion—”

“I’ve got to hurry, Tyrande. Forgive me.”

 With Brox in tow, he walked to the place he had chosen, then seated himself on the ground. Legs folded
in, Malfurion looked up into the moonlit sky.

The orc seated himself across from the night elf, but made room when Tyrande joined. Malfurion
glanced questioningly at her. “You needn’t stay.”

“If in any way the Mother Moon can help me guide you, protect you from harm, I intend to do so.”

Malfurion gave her a grateful smile, then grew grim again. “I must begin now.”

For reasons beyond her, Tyrande suddenly seized his hand. He did not look at her, his eyes now shut,
but briefly the smile returned.

And suddenly Tyrande felt him leaving her.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 It had been a quickly devised, desperate plan, one from which Malfurion understood Lord Ravencrest
actually expected little result. Yet, with the Moon Guard virtually powerless, he had seen no reason why
the upstart young night elf could not at least try.

Now Malfurion only had to hope that he had not made empty promises.

 Tyrande’s hand on his own proved invaluable to wending his way into the sleeplike trance. Her touch
had comforted Malfurion, eased the incredible tension the horrific events of the past few days had
created.

Soothed, he reached out to the world around him, to the trees, river, stones, and more as he had with
Cenarius.

Yet, this time he was met not by the tranquil elements of nature—but ratherturmoil.

The world was no longer in balance. The forest knew it, the hills knew it, even the heavens felt the
wrongness. Everywhere he focused, Malfurion sensed only disharmony. It struck with such force that for
a moment the night elf nearly drowned in it.

Instead, he fixed again on Tyrande’s light touch, drawing peaceful strength from her nearby presence.
The discord faded, still there but unable to overwhelm him.

 Once more steady, Malfurion reached out to the spirits of nature, touching each and letting them feel his
own calm. He understood their turmoil and promised that he would act in their name. The night elf asked
in turn that they be there if he needed their assistance, reminding the spirits that both he and they desired
a return to the balance.

The sense of discord dwindled more. It would not go away so long as the Highborne meddled with the
Well, but Malfurion had at least created some semblance of harmony again.

And with that done, he was able once again to enter the dreamscape safely.

 Free from earthly confinement, he paused to gaze down at his friends, especially Tyrande. It was easier
this time to summon the images, transpose the reality over the idyllic landscape. Both Brox and Tyrande
immediately materialized…as did his own body, of course.

 To his surprise, he noted a tear drifting down one of Tyrande’s cheeks. Instinctively, Malfurion reached
to wipe it away, only to have his finger pass through it. Yet, as if feeling his nearness, the young priestess
reached up with her free hand and not only wiped away the tear, but also touched the area.

Forcing himself to turn away, Malfurion looked to the sky again. He focused on the direction of
Zin-Azshari, then stepped up.

The familiar greenish tint permeated everything. Malfurion concentrated, again overlapping the shadow
world with elements of reality. With what seemed a combination of half walking, half flying, he drifted
over the now-covered dreamscape, sensing the myriad aspects of both the true and subconscious
worlds.

But as he journeyed, an unexpected presence caught his attention. At first he doubted his senses, but a
quick search verified his first suspicions.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Shan’do?he called.

 Malfurion felt his mentor touch his thoughts, but only in an indistinct manner. However, the touch was
enough to convey that Cenarius was well. The last of the felbeasts had been dealt with, but some other
matter urgently demanded the demigod’s attention. Malfurion realized that the forest lord had felt the
presence of his student in the Emerald Dream and had quickly reached out to let the night elf know that
all was not yet lost.

 Comforted by Cenarius’s unspoken message, Malfurion moved on. The green haze thinned further and
soon he saw the world below almost as he would had he been truly able to fly like a bird. Hills and rivers
passed swiftly by as he focused more on his destination.

And as he neared the capital, for the first time Malfurion beheld the horror.

 As terrifying as the messenger’s descriptions had been, they had not fully conveyed the monstrous
cataclysm that had befallen the fabled city. Much of Zin-Azshari had been razed to the ground as if a
great boulder had rolled over it time and again. No building on the outskirts had been left standing. Fire
ruled everywhere, but not simply the crimson flames with which Malfurion was familiar. The capital was
also awash in foul green or pitch black fire clearly of an otherworldly nature. As Malfurion passed over
them, he could feel their evil heat despite being in the dream realm.

Then he caught his first glimpse of the demons.

 The felbeasts had been monstrous enough, but the creatures following them sent new chills through him,
the more so because they were clearly intelligent. Despite the huge horns, devilish faces, and horrific
forms, they moved in concert, with terrible purpose. This was not some mindless horde, but an army
dedicated to evil.

And more and more poured out of the gates of the palace even as he approached.

 He was not surprised to see that the vast, beautiful structure was not touched in the slightest. As the
messenger had said, sentries still lined the walls. Malfurion passed near a few and saw in their eyes a
terrible pleasure at the horrific panorama below. Their silver orbs were tinted with red and some looked
as if they desired to join the demons.

 Revulsed, Malfurion quickly pulled away from them. He looked to the side of the palace and noted that
the homes of the Highborne had also been left whole. Some of the queen’s servants even journeyed from
one building to another as if nothing of consequence was taking place around them.

 His revulsion growing, the night elf pushed on toward the tower. As before, Malfurion sensed the
incredible forces being drawn up haphazardly from the dark Well. If anything, the Highborne had more
than doubled their efforts. Savage storms raged over the Well, touching even within the embattled city.

 Last time, he had tried to enter the tower at the point where he had sensed the spellwork. For this
attempt, however, Malfurion dove lower, finding a balcony near the bottom. Moving much the way he
would have if he had been entering by physical means, the night elf hovered just above the balcony, then
moved through the open entrance there.

 To his surprise, his attempt worked. He almost laughed. None had thought to protect this interior
entrance from such as him. The hubris of the Highborne had enabled him to penetrate the palace with
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




ease.

 Slowly Malfurion floated along the corridor, seeking the path up. Near the rear, he found the main
stairway—and with it, more than a dozen of the huge, horned warriors he had seen outside.

 Malfurion’s first instinct was to pull back in the hopes that they would not see him. Unfortunately, there
was nowhere to hide. He braced for their attack…then cursed himself for his stupidity when the first of
the demonic band lumbered past him.

They could not see his dream form. He breathed a sigh of relief, watching as the last vanished down the
hall. When it became clear that no more followed, Malfurion steeled himself and ascended the stairway.

 He passed several chambers on the way up but did not pause for any of them. What Malfurion sought
lay at the very top of the looming tower and the sooner he reached it, the sooner he could devise some
plan.

 Just what he intended, the night elf did not know. Despite having turned to druidism, Malfurion was
almost as adept at sorcery as his brother and even in his present condition he believed that he could cast
some sort of spell.

 Some distance up, Malfurion suddenly encountered a barrier. He reached out, feeling the air. An
invisible force blocked his way, perhaps the same force that had prevented him from entering on his
previous attempt. Perhaps the Highborne had not been so negligent after all.

 Still determined, the night elf thrust himself forward with all his might. He felt the barrier squeeze against
him, almost as if Malfurion attempted to walk through a true wall. Yet, the more he pushed, the more it
seemed the wall softened some, almost as if about to—

Malfurion fell through.

 His entrance was so abrupt that he floated there, unsure that he had actually succeeded. Turning, he tried
to touch the barrier, but felt only a vague, very weak force. Either his presence had disrupted the barrier
or it had been designed only to prevent intrusion, not departure.

 A short distance up, he found himself confronting two guards and a thick door that had to lead to where
the Highborne worked. Once satisfied that the guards did not see him, Malfurion put a hand to the door,
testing it.

His fingers slipped through the door as if it were nothing. Bracing himself, the young night elf entered.

 His first sensation was one of absolute disorientation, for the chamber where the Highborne performed
their foul work was far more massive than the outside implied. Malfurion’s own home was dwarfed by
the vast room.

And the Highborne needed all that space, for what they did not fill themselves swarmed with ranks of
grotesque warriors, all heading toward the very door through which Malfurion had passed. Up close their
monstrous faces shook him more. There was no compassion, no mercy…

 Forcing away such thoughts, he drifted toward where the Highborne worked, watching their efforts with
a combination of fascination and disgust. The Highborne appeared driven beyond sanity. Most had a
hungry look to them. Their once-elaborate garments hung from their bony bodies and a few strained to
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




stand, but all stared intently, eagerly, at the product of their toil, a fierce, pulsating gap in reality.

 Malfurion started to gaze into the center of that gap, but suddenly had to look away. His brief study had
been enough to let him sense the monstrous evil deep within. It amazed him that the Highborne could not
see what it was with which they dealt.

Trying to forget the fear that had almost now gripped him, Malfurion turned—and came face-to-face
with who could only be the queen’s counselor, Lord Xavius.

 Malfurion floated only inches from the elder night elf’s unsettling eyes. He had heard of the advisor’s
artificial orbs, the magical eyes with which Xavius had purposely replaced his own. Streaks of ruby
darted across the ebony lenses, lenses almost as black as the dark force Malfurion had sensed in the
magical gap.

 The counselor stood there with such an intense expression on his harsh visage that at first the younger
night elf thought that he had been seen, but that, of course, was only his own fanciful notion. After a
moment, Xavius stepped forward, walking through Malfurion and heading to where the Highborne
relentlessly continued their efforts.

 It took Malfurion a moment more to recover from the unexpected encounter. Lord Xavius more than
anyone else was the one the Moon Guard and Ravencrest had blamed for the horror outside. Seeing him
now, Malfurion could believe it. He still felt that the queen also knew what happened, but that was a fact
that could be verified later.

With determination, Malfurion headed toward what had to be the array that controlled the shield. Three
Highborne sorcerers stood around it, but they seemed to be monitoring its actions, not actively shaping it.
He drifted past them, moving up to study the details.

 It was a masterfully crafted display, some of it on a level far beyond that which Malfurion himself could
cast. Still, it did not take him long to see how he could affect it, even cancel it.

Of course, that assumed that Malfurion could doanything in his dream form.

 To test the possibility, he whispered to the air, asking of it a simple jest. Even as the request left his lips,
a breeze tousled ever so slightly the hairs on the back of one sorcerer’s head.

His success thrilled Malfurion. If he could do this much, he could do enough to disrupt the shield spell.
That would be all the Moon Guard would need.

He stared at the heart of the magical matrix, focusing on its weakest link—

“A foolish, foolish thing to attempt,” commented a cold voice.

Malfurion instinctively glanced over his shoulder.

Lord Xavius stared back at him.

At him.

The counselor held up a narrow white crystal. His eyes—eyes with which he could evidently see even a
dream form—flared.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




A tremendous force sucked Malfurion toward the crystal. He tried to pull back, but his efforts went for
naught. The crystal filled his view…then became his world.

From within the tiny, impossible prison, he looked out at the huge, mocking visage of the elder night elf.

 “An interesting thought occurs to me,” Lord Xavius commented almost clinically. “How long do you
think it will take your body to die without your spirit within?” When Malfurion did not answer, the
counselor simply shrugged.

“We shall just have to see, shall we?”

And with that, he pocketed the crystal and plunged Malfurion into darkness.



 They had reached the outskirts of the area where Krasus hoped to find the elf in question. He did not
comprehend how he knew that the one he sought lived near here, but suspected that Nozdormu had left
that information in the back of his mind during the vision. Krasus silently thanked the Aspect for
considering the difficulty of such a search. It also gave him hope that soon this catastrophe would be
corrected, and that he and Rhonin would return home.

That assumed, of course, that he couldfind Rhonin.

 His guilt at not immediately hunting for his former pupil was only partially assuaged by the fact that the
one he pursued now had been identified by one of the five elemental powers as essential to both the past
and the future. The moment he located this mysterious night elf, the dragon mage intended to look for
Rhonin, to whom he owed much more than the human knew.

Korialstrasz suddenly slowed, dipping down toward the trees in the process. “I can bring you no
nearer.”

“I understand.” Any closer to the night elven settlement and the inhabitants would notice the leviathan.

The red dragon alighted, then lowered his head to the ground so that Krasus could dismount. That done,
Korialstrasz inspected the vicinity.

“We are not far. No more than an hour or two.”

Krasus did not mention how much of a struggle those two hours would be once he left the company of
his younger self. “You have done more than I could ask.”

 “I do not intend to abandon you now.” Korialstrasz replied, folding his wings together. “Despite the form
you wear, you may have forgotten that our kind can shift shape. I will transform into something more akin
to those among whom we must mingle.”

The dragon’s huge frame suddenly shimmered. Korialstrasz started to shrink and his form took on a
more humanoid appearance.

But a second later, he reverted to his natural shape, his eyes momentarily glassy and his breath ragged.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“What is it?” Krasus eyed his younger self helplessly.

“I—I cannot transform! To even attempt it fills me with agony!”

 The mage recalled his own reaction when he had first attempted to resume his dragon form after arriving
in this time. It did not surprise him that Korialstrasz suffered a similar difficulty. “Do not try again. I will
have to go on my own.”

“Are you certain? I note that when we are together, we both suffer less from whatever maladies afflict
us…”

A mixture of anxiety and pride touched Krasus. Trust the younger version of himself to see the truth. Did
Korialstrasz knowwhy, though?

If he did, the dragon did not say so. Instead, Korialstrasz added, “No…I know you must go on.”

“Will you remain here?”

 “So long as I can. It does not appear that the night elves journey much to this region and the trees are tall
and will hide me well. If you need me, though, I will come at your call.”

“I know you will,” responded Krasus because he knew himself well.

The mage bid the dragon farewell and started the arduous journey toward the night elven settlement.
However, just before he would have been out of sight of Korialstrasz, the latter called quietly to him.

“Do you think you can find the one for which you search?”

“I can only hope…” He did not add that if he failed, theneveryone would suffer because of it.

Korialstrasz nodded.

The closer he journeyed to the city—and the farther he moved from the dragon—the more ill and weary
Krasus felt. Yet, despite his growing infirmity, the lanky figure continued on. Somewhere in there was the
night elf in question. What he would do when he found him, Krasus did not yet know. He only hoped that
Nozdormu had perhaps left that information locked away in his subconscious, to be released only when
needed.

If not, it would be up to Krasus’s own judgment.

It seemed to take forever, but at last he noticed the first signs of civilization. The distant torches likely
marked a surrounding wall or even an entrance to the city itself.

 Now would come the most difficult part. Although in this form he somewhat resembled a night elf, they
would still recognize him as other than that. Perhaps if he pulled his cowl over his head and leaned
forward—

Krasus suddenly realized that he was no longer alone in the forest.

They came from all sides, night elves clad in much the same armor as those who had captured him prior.
Weapons resembling lances and swords pointed menacingly at the intruder.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




A young, serious officer dismounted from a night saber, then approached him. “I am Captain Jarod
Shadowsong! You are a prisoner of the Guard of Suramar! Surrender and you will be treated fairly.”

 With no other option, Krasus held out his hands so that they could be bound. Yet, deep inside, he felt
some satisfaction about his capture. Now he had his way into the city.

And once there, all he had to do was try to escape…

TWENTY-ONE


The night saber hissed as Rhonin tried to mount it. He held the reins tightly, hoping that the beast would
understand he was supposed to be where he was.

“Are you settled?” Illidan asked him.

 Malfurion’s brother had become the wizard’s unofficial warder, a task which Illidan seemed not to mind
at all. He constantly watched Rhonin as if trying to learn from his every movement. Whenever the human
did anything at all remotely magical, the night elf paid the utmost intention.

 It had not taken Rhonin long to understand why. Of all those present, he represented the most potent
source of magic available. For all their arrogance, the night elves apparently had limited understanding of
the forces they wielded. True, Rhonin found it more difficult to draw the power for his spells, but not so
much that he was helpless as most of them were. Only young Illidan came anywhere near having
Rhonin’s ability.

I can help him,the wizard decided.If he wants to learn, I’ll help him learn. Whatever his personal opinion
of Malfurion’s twin, Rhonin saw in Illidan much potential.

He only hoped that some of that potential would be available by the time they confronted the Burning
Legion.

***

 They rode out of Suramar, heading at the swiftest pace the panthers could set for Zin-Azshari. Rhonin
felt some trepidation at leaving, for now he put more distance between himself and Krasus. More and
more the wizard was certain that he was destined never to return to his own future. He could only hope
that, whatever time had in store for Vereesa and their children, it would be a life worthy of them.

That assumed, of course, that there would be any future at all.

 Lord Ravencrest kept his force riding for the rest of the night and into the day. Only when it was clear
that many of the animals could go no farther did he reluctantly call for a stop.

 Their ranks had grown, others joining them along the way thanks to advance riders sent out. They now
numbered more than a thousand strong, with more arriving constantly. Lord Ravencrest wanted as huge
an army as possible before they encountered the enemy, a desire matched by Rhonin, who knew well the
terrible might of the demons.

Having settled on his own course of action, the wizard finally approached Lord Ravencrest, offering
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




whatever information he could recall of their potential foes. As a way of explanation, he indicated that the
Burning Legion had once invaded his “far-away land,” ravaging everything—the last, at least, certainly the
truth. Rhonin also described to the noble the course of the terrible war and how much devastation had
been caused before the defenders were able to beat the demons back.

 While it was not clear how much Lord Ravencrest believed, he at least took Rhonin’s descriptions of the
demons to heart, ordering his soldiers to adjust their tactics as necessary based on what he saw as their
weaknesses. Latosius and the Moon Guard looked askance at the prospect of confronting the felbeasts
in particular, but Ravencrest assured them that a contingent of his finest would surround them at all times.
He also made certain that the fighters in question would know to strike first at the tentacles if they could,
removing further the danger to the spellcasters.

 The night elven commander obviously recognized that Rhonin had left much out, but did not press the
latter further because of the valuable knowledge already gleaned. He also rightly assumed that Rhonin
held his own life in enough regard to do what he could to see that defeat was out of the question.

 Despite the massive growth of their force, they never slowed. One night became two, then three. Casting
a minor spell that enabled him to see in the dark as well as his companions, Rhonin quickly adjusted to
the nocturnal activity. However, he remained well aware that the demons cared not in the least whether
the sun or the moon shone down and impressed this upon the noble. The monstrous warriors of the
Burning Legion would fight until they could fight no more. The defenders had to be ready to face them
even during the day.

 As the night elves neared Zin-Azshari, they noticed an eerie green light illuminating the area ahead, a light
that seemed to emanate not from the murky heavens, but from the city itself.

“By Elune!” muttered one soldier.

 “Steady,” commanded Lord Ravencrest. He stretched up, peering ahead. “Something is coming…and
fast.”

Rhonin did not have to ask what. “It’s them. They already knew we were coming and plan to meet us as
quickly as possible. They never waste time. The Legion lives only to fight.”

 The commander nodded. “I would’ve preferred a chance to scout the area and make judgments on the
enemy. But if they wish to fight immediately, then by all means, we shall not disappoint them. Sound the
call!”

 Horns blared and the lines of the night elves spread out, moving into battle formation. Now an army of
several thousand, the armored riders and foot soldiers were a tremendous sight to behold. Rhonin
recalled the might of the Alliance and how it had similarly awed him the first time he had seen it prepare
to battle the demon’s allies, the Scourge.

He also recalled how the lines that day had been shattered by the monstrous fury of the invaders.

It won’t happen again!He looked to Illidan, who seemed far less confident now that he faced reality.

 “Don’t lose yourself in fear,” the wizard remarked, having seen where it could lead. “You have a gift,
Illidan. I’ve taught you some on how better to draw power. The Well may be cut off from us, but its
essence permeates the land, the sky, and everything else. If you know how to sense it, you can do
anything you did before the shield appeared.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“I follow your wisdom, shan’do,” returned the young night elf somberly.

 Rhonin had heard the word before, especially when Malfurion had referred to his teacher, the demigod,
Cenarius. He wondered where the forest lord was now. Such an elemental being was needed at a time
like this.

Then the first horrific figures marched into sight and Rhonin’s thoughts turned only to survival.

Survival…and Vereesa.



 The Burning Legion had laid waste to everything up to this point and yet they hungered for more
destruction, more mayhem. The felbeasts bayed and the demon troops behind them roared in pleasure
and anticipation upon seeing the row upon row of figures before them. Here were more lambs to the
slaughter, more blood to be spilled.

With a single horrific battle cry, they charged.

Lord Ravencrest nodded.

“Archers stand ready!” shouted an officer.

More than a thousand curved bows aimed skyward.

The noble held his hand high, watching. The demon horde drew nearer…nearer…

He dropped his hand.

 Like a flight of screaming banshees, the rain of arrows flew toward the enemy. Even knowing that death
fell toward them, the Burning Legion did not slow. All they saw were those who must die.

The shafts descended.

Demons they might be, but they were demons with flesh. The first rank fell almost to the warrior, some
with so many arrows in them that they could not lie flat on the ground. Felbeasts collapsed everywhere.
One or two Doomguard dropped from the sky.

But the Burning Legion trampled over their own as if not even seeing them. Felbeasts ignored their dead
brethren, howling and slavering as they neared the night elves’ lines.

“Damn!” muttered Ravencrest. “One more volley! Quickly!”

With smooth precision, the archers readied. The bearded noble lost no time in signaling them to fire.

 Again death rained down upon the horde, but this time with far less effect. Now the Legion raised
shields, formed better ranks.

“These are not mere beasts,” uttered an officer near Rhonin. “They learn too fast!”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Lord Ravencrest ignored him. “All archers to the rear! Position and be ready to fire on the inner ranks!
Lancers! Prepare to charge!”

“My lord!” Rhonin called. “May I?”

“At this point, wizard, anything you wish to do is granted! Just do it!”

 Rhonin stared at the area before the front ranks of the oncoming demons. He concentrated, drawing in
the power. It took more effort than usual, but not enough to keep him from success.

His eyes narrowed.

The ground erupted before the Burning Legion, an explosion of dirt and rock that assaulted the
monstrous warriors like a line of heavy catapults. Many Fel Guard flew in the air while others were
buried under tons of earth. A huge boulder landed atop one felbeast, cracking its spine in two like a twig.
The rushing mass halted, many colliding.

 The archers took advantage, sending another volley into the packed horde. Scores more fell, adding to
the chaos.

Cheers rose among the soldiers. The Moon Guard, on the other hand, looked somewhat jealously at
Rhonin. Latosius snarled at his fellow sorcerers, urging them to action.

 The efforts of the night elven spellcasters proved to be far less spectacular than Rhonin’s. Rings of
energy that fell upon warriors of the Burning Legion often faded without any effect. A handful of demons
dropped, but even some of those recovered.

“They’re useless!” Illidan snapped.

“They’re trying,” the wizard corrected.

Instead of arguing, the young night elf suddenly pointed at the horde, muttering.

 Serpentine tentacles of black energy snaked around the throats of several dozen of those in the Legion’s
forefront. The demons dropped their weapons and shields and tried to tear the tentacles free, but before
they could do that, the tentacles burned through their necks, going through flesh and bone with little
trouble…and eventually decapitating every one of Illidan’s targets.

It was all Rhonin could do to hide his distaste. Something about the night elf’s choice of attack did not sit
well with him, but when Illidan looked for approval, the wizard still managed to nod. He could not
discourage the only other person who had any ability. If they survived, Rhonin would teach Illidan other,
better ways to deal with a foe.

And if they did not survive…

Once again, the Burning Legion surged on. Under their feet they crushed the corpses of their comrades.
They roared as they approached, their maces and other horrific weapons held high and ready.

“We have to close with them now,” Ravencrest decided.

“You two stay in the back and continue doing whatever you can! You’re our best weapons for
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




now…possibly forever!”

Illidan bowed his head to the noble. “Thank you, my lord.”

“ ’Tis the truth, young one…the terrible truth.”

With that, the night elven commander urged his mount ahead of them, joining his warriors. Lord
Ravencrest drew his weapon, raising it high.

The lancers tensed. Behind them, the foot soldiers stood poised to follow. At the rear, the archers
prepared for another shot.

Ravencrest slashed downward with his sword.

Horns blared. The archers fired.

The night elven force charged to meet the enemy, their night sabers snarling challenge to the demons.

Just as the lancers neared, the arrows struck. Distracted by the charge, those demons in front were
whittled down by the bolts. Disarray momentarily took hold of the foremost line, exactly as Lord
Ravencrest had intended.

The swiftness of the night sabers enabled the lances to drive in deep. Despite their immense size, several
Fel Guard were thrust into the air as the night elves’ spears penetrated not only the armor but everything
within.

 The sheer force of the charge actually pushed back the Burning Legion for a moment. Night sabers did
more damage, biting and tearing at those packed tight before them. Foot soldiers joined in from behind,
filling in gaps and thrusting at anything that was not one of them.

 Their lances all but useless now, the riders drew their own weapons and did battle. Far back, the
archers continued to unleash volleys at the ranks beyond the fighting.

 Another row of riders, Lord Ravencrest among them, still waited. The noble’s gaze flicked back and
forth, studying each individual struggle, seeking the weak areas.

 Rhonin and Illidan were not idle, either. The wizard cast a spell that solidified air above one section of
the horde, literally dropping the sky on them. Illidan, in the meantime, repeated his serpentine spell,
throttling and beheading several demons at a time.

 The Moon Guard did what they could, their efforts slight but still of some aid. They could not, despite
their best efforts, overcome the lack of direct contact with the Well of Eternity and it showed in their
increasingly frustrated expressions.

Then, one of the night elven sorcerers screamed and pitched backward, his skin sloughing off like water.
By the time he hit the ground, he was little more than a skeleton in a pool of what had once been his flesh.
The other Moon Guard stared at the corpse in consternation, only Latosius’s berating voice driving them
back to their task.

 Rhonin quickly surveyed the Legion, seeking the spell’s source. It did not take him long to spot the
culprit, a sinister figure further back in the lines. The spellcaster resembled one of the Fel Guard, but with
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




a long, reptilian tail and far more ornate armor. It also wore a black and bloodred robe over the armor
and the eyes that watched over the battlefield revealed an intelligence far superior to those on the front
line.

He had never faced one himself, but the wizard recognized from descriptions an Eredar warlock. Not
only were they the sorcerers of the Burning Legion, but they also acted as its officers and strategists.

 But the warlock had made the mistake in assuming that the Moon Guard were the ones responsible for
the most devastating spells. That gave Rhonin the opportunity he needed.

 He watched the warlock cast again, but as the latter let loose with his dark spell, Rhonin usurped it,
turned it back on its creator.

The demon gaped as his skin slipped free of his body. His fanged mouth stretched in an inhuman cry and
his gaze turned toward the wizard.

 It was the last act by the warlock. The demon’s mouth continued to stretch, but only because nothing
now held the jaw bone tight. For the briefest of moments, the fleshless figure stood there…then the
skeletal remains collapsed in a pile that disappeared beneath the endless wave of Fel Guard.

 With no one to command them, that part of the Legion grew disoriented. The night elves pressed
forward. The front ranks of the demons buckled…

“We are defeating them!” one young officer near Ravencrest proclaimed.

 But as quickly as the demons had wavered, they now moved forward again with even more
determination. In the back came Doomguard who drove them forward with whips. More felbeasts
struggled to get through the defenders and reach the sorcerers.

 Night elves screamed as two Infernals barreled their way into the riders, tossing animals and soldiers
alike. A hole opened up and demons poured through.

“Advance!” Ravencrest shouted to those with him. “Don’t let them cut up the lines!”

 He and the other riders charged the monstrous warriors who had broken through. Ravencrest himself
slashed off the tentacles of a felbeast, then drove his blade into its head. A night saber fell upon one of the
demon soldiers, ripping apart the latter with its claws and long fangs.

The gap dwindled…then vanished. The night elven lines reformed.

But although they now had a solid front again, the defenders were still pushed back. For all the armored
horrors that the night elves had slain, it seemed twice as many came to reinforce the swarm.

 Rhonin swore as he cast yet another spell that inflicted the Burning Legion with a series of deadly
lightning bolt attacks. As magnified as his power still was, he knew he could have done even more with
the Well open to him. More important, he and Illidan still provided the vast bulk of magical support for
the night elves, but neither could be everywhere. Illidan, for all his eagerness to use whatever spell he
could to slaughter the demons, was tiring quickly and Rhonin felt little better. With the Well’s power free
to their use, both could have cast fewer times yet with much more satisfactory results.

More screams arose as the night elves continued to be pushed back. Fel Guard smashed in heads,
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




caved in armored chests. Their hellish hounds ripped apart foot soldiers. Doomguard leapt above the
fray, then dove into the elven throngs, swinging away with their weapons. Infernals began popping up
everywhere, raining down upon the defenders much the way the night elves’ arrows had done to them
earlier.

 Another of the Moon Guard cried out, but this time because a felbeast had slipped through. Four
soldiers managed to sever its tentacles, then thrust their blades through its chest, but by then it was too
late for the sorcerer.

Another volley went up from the archers…and then immediately arced around and flew back at them.
Although many had the good sense to run, several stood transfixed by the astonishing reversal.

Those died swiftly as their own bolts pierced their throats and their chests.

Rhonin searched, but could not see the Eredar warlocks responsible. He cursed again that he could not
be in more than one place and that the actions he took were not what he had hoped.

 We’re losing!For all their dedication, against the demons the soldiers needed the Moon Guard…and the
Moon Guard needed the Well. Back at Black Rook Hold, Malfurion had said that he hoped to deal with
the shield the Highborne had placed, but that had been days ago. Rhonin could only assume that the
young night elf’s spell had failed…either that, or Malfurion had died in the attempt.

“The line’s buckling again!” someone called.

Rhonin forgot all about Malfurion. There existed now only the battle…the battle and Vereesa. With what
perhaps might have been a last silent farewell to her, he focused once more on the endless ranks of
demons, trying to devise yet another devastating spell and already knowing that, by itself, it would not be
nearly enough.

But was there anythinganyone could do that would be enough?



“Shaman, has there been any change?”

Tyrande shook her head. “Nothing. The body breathes but the spirit is absent.”

The orc frowned. “Will he die?”

 “I don’t know.” Would it be better if he did? She had no idea. For more than three nights, Tyrande had
watched over Malfurion’s body, first in the Chamber of the Moon, then in an untenanted room further
inside the temple. The senior priestesses had been quite sympathetic, but they had clearly believed that
nothing could be done for her friend.

“He may sleep forever,” one had told her. “Or the body may wither and die from lack of sustenance.”

Tyrande had tried to feed Malfurion, but the body was limp, unresponsive. She dared not trickle water
down his throat for fear that he would choke to death.

Last night, Brox had cautiously made the suggestion that perhaps, if they knew there was no hope, it
would be better to quickly end Malfurion’s suffering. He had even offered himself as the one to do it. As
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




horrifying as it had been to hear, the novice priestess understood that the orc had offered what he would
have given a good comrade. He cared for Malfurion.

 They had no notion what had happened to his dream form. For all they knew, it floated around them,
unable for some reason to enter the body. Tyrande doubted that, however, and suspected that something
had happened to him when he had tried to destroy the shield spell. Perhaps his spirit had been eradicated
in the attempt.

 The thought of losing Malfurion stressed Tyrande more than she could have ever thought possible. Even
Illidan’s precarious mission did not bother her as much. True, she worried about the latter twin, too, but
not quite in the same way that she did the one whose body lay before her.

Putting a hand to his cheek, the priestess of the moon thought not for the first time,Malfurion… come
back to me.

But once again, he did not.

 Thick, green fingers gently touched her arm. Tyrande looked into the worried eyes of the orc. He
seemed not at all ugly to her at this moment, simply a fellow soul in this hour of grief.

“Shaman, you’ve not slept, not been out of this room. Not good. Step out. Breathe the night air.”

“I can’t leave him—”

He would not hear her protest. “What’ll you do? Nothing. He lies there. He’ll be safe. He’d want you to
do this.”

 The others saw the orc as a barbaric creature, but more and more Tyrande realized that the brutish
figure was simply a being who had been born into a more basic society. He understood the needs of a
living being and understood the dangers of losing track of those needs.

 She could not help Malfurion if she herself grew weak or ill. As difficult as it was for her, Tyrande had to
step away.

“All right…but only for a few minutes.”

 Brox helped her to her feet. The young priestess discovered then that her legs were stiff and almost
insufficient to keep her standing. Her companion had been correct; she needed to refresh herself if she
hoped to go on for Malfurion.

 With the orc beside her, Tyrande journeyed through the temple to the entrance. As before, the outer
halls were filled with frightened and confused citizens, all trying to gain reassurance from the servants of
the Mother Moon.

She feared that they would have to fight their way outside, but the crowds moved quickly to avoid Brox.
He took their continual repulsion of him in stride, but Tyrande felt embarrassed. Elune had always
preached respect of all creatures, but few night elves cared for other races.

 The two stepped into the square. A cool breeze touched her, reminding Tyrande of times as a child. She
had always loved the wind and, had it not looked unseemly, would have stretched out her arms and tried
to embrace it as she had when little.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




For several minutes, Tyrande and Brox simply stood there. Then, guilt once more caught hold of the
priestess, for her childhood memories began to include times with Malfurion. She finally apologized to the
orc and insisted that they return inside. Brox merely nodded his understanding and followed.

Yet, they had not quite reached the steps of the temple when one of the Suramar Guard called out to
her. Tyrande hesitated, uncertain if the soldier sought to bother her because of Brox.

But the officer apparently had another mission in mind. “Sister, forgive me. I am Captain Jarod
Shadowsong.”

 She knew his face if not his name. He was only slightly older than she and with somewhat round features
for a night elf. His eyes were slanted slightly more than average, too, giving him a probing expression
even when he tried to be friendly and courteous, such as now.

“You wish something of me, captain?”

“A bit of your time, if I might be so bold. I have a prisoner who has need of aid.”

At first Tyrande wanted to decline, her urge to return to Malfurion foremost in her thoughts, but her
duties took priority. How could she turn from some unfortunate in need of her healing skills? “Very well.”

As the orc started to follow, Captain Shadowsong looked askance. “Isthat coming with us?”

“Would you rather he stand out in the square by himself, especially during these troublesome times?”

The officer reluctantly shook his head, ending the matter. He turned and quickly led the pair on.

 Suramar had only a small facility for prisoners, most of any import ending up in Black Rook Hold. The
structure that Captain Shadowsong led them to had been created out of the base of a long dead tree. The
roots formed the skeleton of the building and workers had created the rest from stone. There was no
more solid a building than this save Lord Ravencrest’s hold and the Suramar Guard were proud of that.

 Tyrande eyed the rather bland building with some trepidation, imagining from its monotone exterior that it
could only house the worst of villains. However, she steeled herself and did not reveal any misgivings as
the captain bid her to enter.

 The outer chamber was devoid of any furnishings save a simple wooden desk where the officer on duty
no doubt worked. With most of the armed might of Suramar gone, the rest of Captain Shadowsong’s
comrades were no doubt out trying in vain to keep the peace.

 “We found him in the woods the very evening Lord Ravencrest and the expeditionary force departed.
Many of our detection spells have failed, sister, but some do contain their own power. One of those
alerted us to the intruder. With some escapes in the recent past—” He looked momentarily at the orc.
Captain Shadowsong clearly knew of Brox’s present status, else he would have immediately tried to
arrest him. “—we took no chances and immediately went to investigate.”

“And how does that pertain to me?”

“The—prisoner—we found was quite weary. After deciding it was not a ruse, we brought him back. He
grows no better since then. Because of hispeculiar nature, I want him alive if and when Lord Ravencrest
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




returns. That’s why I finally came to you.”

“Then, by all means, please lead the way.”

There were only a dozen cells in the chamber behind, although the officer was willing to tell Tyrande that
he had more down below. She nodded politely, now a bit curious as to what sort of being lay inside the
one. After Brox, she almost expected it to be another orc, but Captain Shadowsong’s reaction to Brox
made that assumption inaccurate.

“Here he is.”

 The priestess had expected something huge and warlike, but the figure within was no taller than the
average night elf. He was also thinner than most. Underneath the hood of his rather plain robes she noted
a gaunt face very much akin to one of her own, but pale, almost ghostly, and with eyes less pronounced.
Judging by the shape of his hood, his ears were also smaller.

“He looks like one of us…but not,” she remarked.

“Like aghost of one of us,” the captain corrected.

But Brox moved forward, almost seeming hypnotized by the unsettling figure. “Elf?”

“Perhaps…” remarked the prisoner in a voice much more deep and commanding than his appearance let
on. He seemed equally interested in Brox. “And what is an orc doing here?”

 He knew what her companionwas. Tyrande found that extremely interesting, especially with so many
strange visitors of late.

Then the prisoner coughed badly and her concern took over. She insisted that Captain Shadowsong
open the door for her.

 As she neared the mat on which he lay, the young priestess could not help but look into that face again.
There was more to it than appearance alone indicated. She sensed a depth of wisdom and experience
that literally shook her to the core. Somehow, Tyrande recognized that here was a very, very ancient
being whose condition had nothing to do with his age.

“You are gifted,” he whispered. “I had hoped for that.”

“Wh-what ails you?”

 He gave her a fatherly smile. “Nothing even your abilities can cure. I convinced the captain to find one
such as you because time is running scarce.”

“You never told me to do any such thing!” Jarod Shadowsong protested. “I went by my own choice.”

“As you say…” but the prisoner’s eyes said otherwise to Tyrande. He then looked again at Brox. “Now
you are something I did not calculate on, and that worries me. You should not be here.”

The orc grunted. “Other said so, too.”

“Other? What other?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 “The one with flame for hair, the one who said…” Here Brox paused and, after a surreptitious glance at
the Guard captain, murmured, “The one who spoke of this as past.”

 To Tyrande’s astonishment, the prisoner sat up. Captain Shadowsong started forward, his weapon
already drawn, but the priestess waved him back.

“You saw Rhonin?”

“You know him?” asked Tyrande.

“We came here together…I thought him trapped…elsewhere.”

“In the glade of Cenarius,” she added.

He actually laughed. “Either chance, fate, or Nozdormu moves this matter forward, praise be! Yes, that
place…but how do you know of it?”

“I’ve been there…with friends of mine.”

“Have you?” The gaunt face moved closer. “With friends?”

Tyrande was uncertain now what to make of him. He knew many things that most ordinary night elves
did not, of that she was certain. “Before we go on…I would have a name from you.”

“Forgive my manners! You may call me…Krasus.”

 Now Brox reacted. “Krasus! Rhonin spoke of you!” The orc actually went down on one knee.
“Elder…I am Broxigar…this is the shaman, Tyrande.”

Krasus frowned. “Perhaps Rhonin spoke too much…and likely has inferred more.”

Her companion’s reaction settled one matter for the novice priestess. Rising she turned to the captain. “I
would like to take him with me to the temple. I believe he could be better cared for there.”

“Out of the question! If he escapes—”

 “You have my promise that he will not. Besides, you yourself said that it was essential he be well. After
all, if he must face Lord Ravencrest—”

The Guard officer frowned. Tyrande smiled at him.

“Very well…but I’ll have to escort you there myself.”

“Of course.”

 She turned to help Krasus rise, Brox coming from the prisoner’s other side. As Tyrande held him close,
she noticed Krasus hide a satisfied smile.

“Something pleases you?”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“For the first time since my inopportune arrival, yes. There is hope, after all.”

 He did not clarify and she did not ask him to do so. With their aid, he left the Guard headquarters.
Tyrande realized that Krasus played no game in one regard; he was seriously weak. Even still, she
sensed the authority within him.

 With Jarod Shadowsong behind them, they returned to the temple. Once again, it took only the
appearance of the orc to create a path for them.

 Tyrande feared that the guards and senior priestesses would be another problem, but, like her, they
seemed to innately sense Krasus’s prominence. The elder priestesses actually bowed toward him,
although she suspected that they did not quite understand why.

“Elune has chosen well,” Krasus remarked as they neared the living quarters. “But then, I knew that
when I saw you.”

His comment made her face darken, but not because of any attraction. Rather, Tyrande felt as if she had
been given a compliment by one at least as significant as the high priestess herself.

 She intended to bring him to a separate chamber, but without thinking instead walked into the one where
she had been keeping Malfurion. At the last moment, Tyrande tried to halt.

“Is there trouble?” asked Krasus.

“No…only that this room is being used for a stricken friend of mine—”

But before she could get any farther, the cowled figure struggled away from her, pushing toward
Malfurion’s prone form.

“Chance, fate, or Nozdormu, indeed!” he spat. “What ails him? Quickly!”

“I—” How to explain?

“He walked the Emerald Dream,” Brox responded. “He’s not come back, elder.”

“Not come back…where did he seek to go?”

 The orc told him. Tyrande had thought Krasus’s face pale enough, but now it literally whitened. “Of all
the places…but it makes bitter sense. If I had only known before I left there!”

“You were in Zin-Azshari?” Tyrande gasped.

 “I was in whatremained of the city, but I came here in search of your very friend.” He studied the still
body. “And if, as you say, he has been like this for the past few nights, I may be much, much too
late…forall of us.”


 TWENTY-TWO
Anight elf cried out, his breast plate and chest cut open by a demon blade. Another near him had no
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




chance to utter a sound, a Fel Guard mace crushing in his skull.

 Everywhere, the defenders were dying and nothing Rhonin had done so far had been sufficient to alter
that horrific fact. Despite Lord Ravencrest’s determined figure at the forefront, the night elves were
slowly being slaughtered. The Burning Legion gave them no respite, constantly pummeling the lines.

But even knowing he and the rest would die, the wizard fought on.

He had no other recourse.



 The news of the defending army’s arrival had taken Lord Xavius by some surprise, but it had not made
him any less confident of the final outcome. He saw how many of the great one’s celestial host flooded
through the portal and felt certain that no army arrayed against them could possibly stand long. Soon, the
unfit would be cleansed from his world.

 Mannoroth led the Legion against the fools and Hakkar was on the hunt, leaving all in the counselor’s
skilled hands. He peered briefly in the direction of a small alcove near the entrance, wherein he had
stored his most recent prize. After news arrived that the defending forces had been decimated, Xavius
would take the time to see to his “guest.” At the moment, he had far more important things to do.

 He returned his attention to the portal, where yet another group of Fel Guard had materialized. They
received their instructions from the towering Doomguard left by Mannoroth, then marched to join their
bloodthirsty brethren. The scene had repeated itself some dozen times in just the past few minutes, the
only difference being that each successive batch of arrivals was larger in number than the last. Now they
almost took up the entire chamber.

As the latest troop of Fel Guard passed, Lord Xavius heard Sargeras’s glorious voice in his head.The
pace increases…I am pleased.

The night elf knelt. “I am honored.”

There is resistance already.

“Merely some of the unfit delaying the inevitable.”

 The portal must be protected…it must not only remain open, but be strengthened more. Soon…very
soon…I will come through…

The counselor’s heart leapt. The momentous event neared!

Rising, he said, “I shall see that everything is done to prepare the way for you! I swear it!”

He felt a wave of satisfaction…then Sargeras departed his thoughts.

 Lord Xavius immediately turned to the array that kept the shield spell functioning. He had inspected it
after the intruder’s attempt to destroy it and found it intact, but one could never take chances.

Yes, it was still in perfect order. Thinking of his “guest,” Xavius mulled over some of the things he would
do when Sargeras finally stepped forth from the portal. Surely the queen would have to be there and, of
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




course, an honor guard had to be arranged. Captain Varo’then would deal with the last matter. The
counselor himself intended to be the first to greet the celestial one. As a proper gift, Xavius decided that
he would hand over the crystal and its contents to Sargeras. After all, this was one of the three that
Mannoroth had felt significant enough to send the Houndmaster after again. How foolish Hakkar would
look when he came back to discover that the advisor had so easily captured one already.

 Lord Xavius could hardly wait to present his prisoner to the great Sargeras. It would be especially
interesting to see just what the god did with the young fool…



His nightmare continued.

 Malfurion drifted within the crystal, staring out at what little he could see of the chamber. He had been
placed in a small nook in the alcove, the crystal set on an angle. The alcove gave him a glimpse of the
area near the doorway, which meant that the captive watched a constant stream of demonic warriors
lumbering by, death clearly on their minds. That, in turn, twisted his heart further, for he knew that they
went out to slay every night elf they could find…and all because Malfurion had failed to destroy the
shield.

 Although his surroundings did not give any indication of the passage of time, Malfurion felt certain that at
least two nights had gone by since his capture. In his dream form, he did not sleep, and that made those
two or more nights even longer.

 How stupid he had been! Malfurion had heard the tales of Lord Xavius’s eyes, how people said they
could even see the shadows of shadows, but he had taken those for fanciful stories. Little had he
suspected that the same lenses that enabled the counselor to observe the natural forces of sorcery also let
him take note of a spirit in his sanctum. How Lord Xavius had laughed!

Malfurion had tested his crystalline cage several times early on and found it too strong. Perhaps with
more teaching the young night elf might have discovered some flaw, but that hardly mattered now. He
hadfailed. He had failed himself, his friends, his race…his world.

Now, nothing but Lord Ravencrest’s defenders likely stood in the way of the demons.

He had to dosomething.

Steeling himself, Malfurion once again tried to use what Cenarius had taught him. The crystal was a part
of nature. It was susceptible to his spells. He ran his hands over the edges, seeking a weakness in the
matrix that held it together. It was not quite a druidic spell he utilized, but close.

But still he found nothing.

Malfurion screamed out of frustration. Thousands would die because of his failure. Illidan would perish.
Brox would perish. Tyrande—

Tyrandewould perish.

He could picture her face, visualize it better than any other. Malfurion imagined her concern for him. He
knew that she likely sat near his body, trying to summon him back. The imprisoned night elf could almost
hear her calling to him.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




Malfurion…

 The night elf shook. Surely, he had begun to lose his mind. It astounded Malfurion that the process had
started so quickly, but then, his situation was a most terrible one.

Malfurion…can you hear me?

 Again it felt as if Tyrande’s voice echoed in his thoughts. He peered out of his prison, trying to see if
perhaps Lord Xavius had begun some sort of mental torture, but of the counselor Malfurion could see no
sign.

With some trepidation, he finally thought,Tyrande?

Malfurion! I’d scarcely hoped!

He could hardly believe it himself. True, she was a priestess of Elune, but still, such an act should have
been beyond her.Tyrande…how did you reach me?

Thanks to another…he’s been searching for you, he says.

 The only ones that Malfurion could think of were Brox and Rhonin. Tyrande had met the orc, though,
and while a courageous warrior, Brox lacked any magical skills. Could it be Rhonin? Even that made little
sense, the wizard having supposedly ridden off with Lord Ravencrest.

Who?he finally asked.Who?

My name is Krasus.

 The sudden switch unsettled Malfurion. The voice was like none he had ever felt, although in some ways
it hinted of Cenarius’s. Whoever this Krasus was, he was not simply some night elf, but much, much
more.

Do you sense us still?asked the new voice.

I do…Krasus.

 I have shown Tyrande how we can work through her bond to you to reach out to your dream self. The
trick is difficult, but we hope to do it only long enough to free you.

Free me?Glancing again at his prison, Malfurion doubted that it would be possible.

A cunning trap, yes,Krasus went on, surprising the night elf. Apparently the link enabled them to see just
where Lord Xavius had imprisoned him.But I have dealt with its like before.

Now Malfurion’s spirits rose further.What must be done?

Now that we have moved your body—

You’ve done what?Moved his body? The risk to it—
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 I am quite familiar with the risks.When Malfurion protested no more, Krasus continued,It was necessary
to bring it…closer to one of our party. Now you must listen, for we must do this quickly.

The night elf waited tensely. If they could release him from the crystal, he would do anything they said.

I must see the crystal, see every facet of its nature. You are a druid. This you can show me.

 Acknowledging his understanding, Malfurion surveyed the entire interior of his magical cell. He looked at
every corner, every facet, showing the crystal’s strengths and its possible weaknesses. Nothing he saw
gave him any encouragement, but he suspected that Krasus knew far better than he what to look for.

There!The disembodied voice made him pause before one edge. Malfurion had studied it earlier,
noticing a slight fault to it, but had not been able to make any use of the spot.

It is the key to your escape. Touch it with your mind. See how the flaw works?

For the first time, he did. The fault was minute, but still distinct. How had he failed to see that earlier?

 With experience comes wisdom, they say,Krasus suddenly replied.However, I am still working to prove
that adage.

He ordered Malfurion to use the skills the forest lord had taught him to feel the entire width and breadth
of the flaw, to understand its ultimate nature. To know it as well as he knew himself.

You should be able to note its most vulnerable place, its key, so to speak.

I don’t—Yes! He did! Malfurion sensed the location. He pressed against it, eager to be free…but it
would not give way.

You are strong, but not yet fully trained. Open your thoughts further to us. Let us in, no matter how
many of us there are. We shall be your added strength and knowledge.

 Clearing his mind as much as he could, Malfurion left himself open to Tyrande and the mysterious
Krasus. He immediately felt the distinction between the two of them. Tyrande’s thoughts were caring but
firm, Krasus’s wise but

frustrated. Curiously, the frustration had nothing to do with Malfurion’s situation.

Now…try again.

 The imprisoned night elf pictured his dream form as a physical one. He literally pushed against the flaw
as he would have any weak barrier. Surely, it would give if he pushed hard enough…

It suddenly felt as if the other two pushed with him. Malfurion could almost envision Tyrande and the
other at his side, straining.

The flaw began to give. A minute crack developed…

A tiny, tiny gap appeared as the fault opened ever so slightly.

It is your doorway!urged Krasus.Go through it!
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




And Malfurion’s dream formpoured through the slim opening.

 He grew as he left the counselor’s cell, expanding until he stood his normal height. The change was
simply a change in his own perspective, but he much preferred it to the insect-like position in which he
had been while imprisoned.

Now…before you are noticed…return to us!

But here Malfurion disagreed. He had come this far to do what needed to be done to save his people,
his world. The shield spellhad to fall.

Malfurion!Tyrande pleaded.No!

 Ignoring both, he floated around the corner…and stopped. Lord Xavius stood at the other end of the
chamber, attention riveted on the dark portal through which the demons constantly arrived. Almost it
seemed the counselor communed with whatever lurked deep within. Malfurion shuddered, recalling the
inherent evil of that entity.

Still, the present situation worked in his favor. If Xavius would just keep staring into the vortex a few
moments more, Malfurion could accomplish his task and be away.

He drifted toward the array, already aware of how to destroy it. A few simple alterations and it would
be no more.

 Both Tyrande and Krasus had ceased speaking, which either meant that they intended to let him see this
through or…or the link with him had been somehow severed. Whichever the case, he could not turn
back now.

 With one last glance at the lord counselor, Malfurion reached in with his power. He first altered one of
the interior components of the spell, guaranteeing its eventual instability regardless of what he did next.

 It was the strength of the world, of nature, that Malfurion summoned now. He used it to force the array
into a new combination, a new form that would negate its purpose and ultimately cause it to dissipate.

The shield spell faltered…



Lord Xavius instantly sensed the wrongness. Something terrible was happening to the shield spell.

Within the portal, Sargeras, too, sensed something amiss.

Seek!he commanded his pawn.

The counselor spun about. His dark, magical eyes fixed on the precious array—and the ghostly intruder
whom he had captured before.

The imbecile was meddling with the spell!

“Stop him!” roared Lord Xavius.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 The shout nearly upset everything Malfurion had set into motion. He managed to regain his control, then
looked to where Xavius pointed furiously at him, screaming for the Highborne or the demons to seize
him. However, neither seemed able to obey that command, for, unlike the counselor, they could not see
Malfurion’s dream form, much less touch it.

Lord Xavius, on the other hand, could do both.

 When it became clear that the others were of no use to him, the queen’s advisor threw himself toward
Malfurion. His artificial eyes radiated dark energy and Malfurion sensed an attack of some sort coming.
Instinctively he raised his hand, asking aid of the wind and air.

 Bolts of crimson lightning darted toward him and, had they actually reached the younger night elf, would
surely have obliterated him. However, mere inches from Malfurion, the bolts not only struck some
invisible barrier—solid air, perhaps—but were diverted back by the wind that the ghostly figure had
summoned.

With deadly accuracy, the bolts struck the huge warriors near the portal.

 The demons were tossed about like leaves in a storm. Several crashed against the walls while two
collided with the sorcerers who kept working on the portal. That, in turn, threw the latter’s efforts into
near chaos. The portal heaved as if breathing raggedly, opening and closing in mad fashion.

 The Highborne sorcerers struggled to keep the portal under control. Several demons about to step
through suddenly vanished back into the darkness within.

 One of the larger, winged figures standing near the opening charged in the direction of Malfurion. The
huge demon obviously could not see the night elf, but swung about with its weapon in the clear hope of
striking something. Malfurion tried to avoid the weapon as best he could, not at all certain that he was
immune to it.

 Lord Xavius had ducked away from his reversed spell, but now the counselor returned to the fray. From
a pouch at his side, he removed yet another crystal.

“From this one, you shall not escape…”

The magical eyes flared.

Moving quickly, Malfurion set the demon between himself and the counselor. Instead of his intended
victim, the advisor drew in the startled demon. The brutish figure roared its rage at such trickery and
grasped in vain in the general direction of Malfurion before being sucked into the crystal.

 Xavius swore and tossed the crystal aside, caring little for the fate of its contents. All his attention
remained focused on the ghostly form that only he could see.

“My lord!” cried one of the sorcerers. “Shall we—”

“Do nothing! Keep at the task at hand! The portal must remain open and the shield must keep intact! I
will deal with our invisible intruder!”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 That said, Xavius prepared to cast again. Malfurion, however, had no intention of waiting for him. He
turned and darted from the chamber, passing through the outer door without so much as a glance from
the wary sentries.

The furious counselor immediately rushed after him. “Open the door!”

The guards obeyed. Xavius rushed out of the chamber and down the steps in pursuit of his adversary.

But Malfurion had not fled downstairs, instead floating within an inner wall of the tower. There, unseen
by the lord counselor, he waited until he was certain the trouble had passed.

Returning to the chamber, Malfurion immediately drifted to the array. He had to destroy it quickly,
before the Highborne had the chance to reinforce it.

 However, as he reached for it, a familiar dread returned to him. Malfurion shivered and, despite himself,
looked toward the portal.

You will not touch the shield…the terrible presence within uttered in his mind.You do not wish to. You
wish only to serve me…to worship me…

 Malfurion fought the urge to give in to that voice. He knew what would happen to everyone if the one
who spoke had the chance to enter the world. All the evil unleashed by the demons so far paled in
comparison to what commanded them.

I…will…not be one of your pawns!Almost screaming from effort, Malfurion tore his gaze from the
vortex.

He could feel the dread figure’s fury as he sought to recover. The evil within could not affect him directly
other than to play with his thoughts. Malfurion had to ignore him, think only of those he cared about and
what failure meant to them.

Just a few seconds more—

His dream form twisted, suddenly wracked by incredible pain. He spun around, falling to his knees.

 “No more games…” muttered Lord Xavius, standing at the doorway. Near him, several perplexed
guards searched in vain for the enemy with whom he spoke. “No more near disasters! I will rend your
spirit form to shreds, scatter your essence over the world…and only then will I give you to the great one
to do with as he pleases…”

He pointed at Malfurion.



 More and more the Burning Legion crushed the lines of the night elves. Lord Ravencrest kept his
followers from being ripped apart, but they continued to give ground.

 A fierce battering ram created by Rhonin plowed into the demons, tossing several back and digging
deep into the horde. It slowed them in that one place, but everywhere else the Legion continued to
advance.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




From somewhere, Rhonin heard Lord Ravencrest shouting orders. “Strengthen that right flank! Archers!
Take out those winged furies! Latosius, get your Moon Guard back!”

 It was hard to say if the senior sorcerer heard the noble’s command, but, either way, the Moon Guard
remained where they were. Latosius stood at the forefront, ordering this spellcaster or that to deal with
various situations. Rhonin grimaced. The elder night elf had no concept of tactics. He wasted what little
might his group had on several minuscule attacks rather than on one concerted effort.

Illidan saw this, too. “The damned old idiot’s making no use of them at all! I could lead them better!”

“Forget them and concentrate on your own spells—”

But even as the wizard said this, Latosius suddenly reeled. He grabbed at his throat and slumped over,
blood pouring from his mouth. His skin blackened and he collapsed, clearly dead already.

“No!” Rhonin surveyed the Legion, found the warlock, and pointed.

 Using the trick unleashed earlier by perhaps this same demon, Rhonin seized several arrows in flight and
sent them hurtling down upon the warlock. The robed figure glanced up, saw the bolts, and simply
laughed. He gestured in a manner Rhonin assumed created a defensive shield around him.

The Eredar ceased laughing when each bolt not only penetrated his shield, but wentthrough his torso.

“Not as strong as you think, are you?” muttered the wizard in grim satisfaction.

 Rhonin turned again to Illidan—only to find the latter gone. He looked around, found the determined
young night elf riding madly toward the Moon Guard, who seemed in complete disarray without their
leader.

 “What does he—?” But Rhonin had no time to worry about his would-be protégé, for incredible heat
suddenly surrounded him. He felt as if his skin were about to melt.

 The Eredar warlocks had finally identified him as a major threat. More than one certainly had to be
attacking him. He managed to summon enough strength to momentarily ease the incredible heat, but no
more. Slowly, they were cooking him alive.

 So this was it. Here he would die, never knowing if his part in this battle would keep history more or less
intact or destroy it utterly.

 Then…the intense pressure on him all but ceased. Rhonin reacted instinctively, using his magic to
completely counter the remaining danger. His eyes cleared and he finally managed a fix on the key
spellcaster.

“You like fire? I’d like it a little cooler.”

The wizard reversed the spell cast upon him, sending at its user an intense wave of cold.

 Rhonin sensed the bitter chill overwhelm the warlock. The Eredar stiffened, turning a pale white. His
expression contorted, freezing in mid-agony.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




One of the Fel Guard bumped the warlock. The frozen figure toppled, striking the hard ground with a
harsh crash and scattering bits of iced demon over the battlefield.

 Trying to catch his breath, Rhonin looked to the Moon Guard, the direction from which he had felt aid
come. His eyes widened as he saw Illidan at their head.

 The young night elf smiled his way, then turned back to the struggle. He directed the veteran sorcerers as
if born to it. Illidan had them aligning in arrays that magnified what little strength they had throughhim. He,
in turn, drew forth their power, thereby increasing the intensity of his own spells.

 An eruption in the midst of the Burning Legion destroyed scores of demons there. Illidan let out a
triumphant cheer, unaware of the strain now on the faces of the other sorcerers. He had used their power
to good effect, but if he repeated such steps too often, the Moon Guard would burn out one by one.

 But there was nothing Rhonin could do to let Illidan know that and, in truth, he was not all that certain he
should try. If the defenders fell here, who else was there?

If only Malfurion had not failed…



 Mannoroth looked upon the battlefield and was pleased. His host swept across the land—not just where
they encountered no resistance, but even where the puny inhabitants of this world had quickly decided to
meet the Legion in battle.

He appreciated their effort to bring this struggle to a close so soon. It meant paving the way sooner for
his master, Sargeras. Sargeras would be pleased with all that had been accomplished in his name. He
would reward Mannoroth well, for the demon had managed this feat without having had to ask for the aid
of Archimonde.

Yes, Mannoroth would be rewarded well, receiving more favor, more power, among the Legion.

 As for the night elves who had so far aided the demons in their endeavor to take this world, they would
receive the only reward Sargeras ever gave to such…

Utter annihilation.


 TWENTY-THREE
Malfurion thought he had outfoxed Lord

 Xavius, but once again, it was the young night elf who had played the fool. What had made him think
that the counselor would continue to hunt for him through the stairways and corridors when clearly
Malfurion would want to return to the tower and complete his mission?

 It would be his final mistake. Lord Xavius was a gifted sorcerer with the power of the Well upon which
to draw. Malfurion had learned much from his shan’do, but not enough, it seemed, to stand up to such a
deadly foe.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




And Lord Xavius was aware of that as well.

 Yet, in Malfurion’s head suddenly came a voice…not the voice from within the portal, but rather that of
the mysterious Krasus, who Malfurion had long thought had abandoned him.

 Malfurion…our strength is your strength…as you did in the crystal, draw upon the love and friendship of
those who know you…and draw from the determination of those like myself, who stand with them for
you.

Not all of what he said made perfect sense to the night elf, but the essence of it was clear. He sensed not
only Tyrande and Krasus, but also Brox now. The three opened up their minds, their souls to Malfurion,
giving to him whatever strength he needed.

 You are a druid, Malfurion, perhaps the first of your kind. You draw from the world, from nature…and
are not we all a part of both? Draw from us as well…

Malfurion obeyed…and just barely in time.

Lord Xavius cast his spell.

 It should have left little trace of Malfurion’s dream self. The younger night elf raised his hand to ward off
the evil attack, but he did not expect his powers to be sufficient even now. The counselor’s previous
assault had weakened him badly.

 But the spell never struck. The attack was dismissed as easily as if Malfurion had brushed away a gnat
from his face.

Rise up!Krasus urged.Rise up and do what must be done!

He did not mean that Malfurion should do battle with the counselor. That would be a dangerous waste
of time. Instead, the night elf had to finish what he had started.

Malfurion struck at the shield spell.

 The array shifted out of sequence. Two of the Highborne hurried to adjust it, but the floor beneath their
feet suddenly gave way as the stones there acted on Malfurion’s silent request to cease their natural
tendency to be strong and hold things together. With a scream, the pair dropped from sight.

 Lord Xavius struck angrily at Malfurion, enshrouding him in a vapor that clung to the latter’s dream form
and tried to eat away at it. Malfurion struggled at first, but the combined strength of Tyrande, Brox, and
Krasus steeled him again. He quickly summoned a wind that assailed the vapor, scattering it.

But while Malfurion dealt with the vapor, Xavius took the opportunity to restore the shield spell to some
order. He then turned toward his adversary, his next intent obvious.

 Malfurion grew frustrated. This could not go on indefinitely. Eventually, he would either lose or be forced
to flee. Something had to change…and quickly.

He spun, but not toward either the array or Lord Xavius.

Instead, Malfurion now faced the portal.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Again he called upon the wind, this time asking it to prove it was strong enough to push about more than
simple vapor. Malfurion eyed the Highborne in particular, daring the wind to show what it could do.

 And within their sanctum, the sorcerers suddenly found themselves assaulted by a gale. Three of their
number were quickly thrown across the chamber, where they struck the opposing wall hard. As they fell,
another stumbled away from the pattern, then tumbled over one of the still forms.

 The rest bent low, seeking to keep from the wind’s full wrath. Yet, despite no more falling prey, it was
clear that the losses already suffered had put a strain on the survivors, for the portal shimmered and
twisted dangerously. The sense of evil that Malfurion had felt lessened.

Fiery hands suddenly seized him by the the back of the neck, throttling Malfurion. They burned into
Malfurion’s dream form as if into his own flesh, causing him to unleash a scream that, despite its intensity,
only his attacker could hear.

“The power of the great one is with me!” roared the queen’s advisor with much satisfaction. “You are no
match for us both!”

 Indeed, Malfurion felt the evil reaching out again from the shifting portal. While still not as potent as when
it had sought to turn him to the Highborne’s side, it added much to the counselor’s already fearsome
might. Against it, even the strength Malfurion received from the three proved insufficient.

 Tyrande…He did not try to summon the priestess, only feared in his mind that he might never see her
again, never be near her.

The voice of Krasus suddenly filled his head again.Courage, druid…there is another of us who has been
waiting for just this moment.

A fourth presence intruded, immediately adding itself to those strengthening Malfurion. Like Krasus, it
was a being far superior to a mere night elf. He sensed a weakness in it, but compared to any of
Malfurion’s own kind, such weakness was minute, laughable. Oddly, it almost felt as if the new presence
was the twin of Krasus, for they were so much alike in feel that at first he had some trouble differentiating
between the pair.

 Even the new voice in his head reminded him much of Krasus.I am Korialstrasz…and I freely give what
I have.

Their gifts were those with which life, nature, had endowed them. The added presence of Korialstrasz
multiplied Malfurion’s will a hundredfold, giving him hope such as he had never had.

You are a druid…Krasus reminded him yet again.The world is your strength.

 Malfurion felt invigorated. Now he sensed not only his distant companions, but the stones, the wind, the
clouds, the earth, the trees…everything.Malfurion was nearly overwhelmed by the fury the world
radiated now. The evil thus far perpetrated by the Highborne and the demons offended the elements as
nothing ever had before.

I promised I would do what I could,he said to them.Grant me your strength as well and it will be done!

To Malfurion, this took place over what felt like an eternity, but when he at last glanced at Lord Xavius,
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




he saw that only a second at most had perhaps passed. The counselor stood almost as if frozen, his
expression sluggishly altering as he prepared, with the power of his master behind him, to finally destroy
his ghostly adversary.

Malfurion smiled at the other night elf’s folly. He raised his hands to the hidden sky and called upon its
might.

Outside, thunder roared. The Highborne around the portal and the array faltered again, aware that this
was not a part of their work. Even Lord Xavius frowned.

And suddenly the palace tower shook—thenexploded.



Captain Varo’then knelt before Azshara, his helmet carried in the crook of his arm. “You summoned
me, my glorious queen?”

 Two of Azshara’s servants brushed her luxurious hair, something she had them do several times a day to
keep it fluffed and perfect. While they performed this task, she amused herself with sampling the exotic
scents brought to her recently by traders.

 “Yes, captain. I wondered what that noise was coming from above. It sounded as if it originated from
the tower. Is there some trouble of which I have not been informed?”

The male night elf shrugged. “None that I am aware of, Light of a Thousand Moons. Perhaps it is the
prelude to the great Sargeras’s entrance.”

“You think so?” Her eyes lit up. “How wonderful!” She waved him off. “In that case, I should be
prepared! Surely we are in for a wonderful event!”

“As you say, Glory of Our People. As you say.” The captain rose, replacing his helmet on his head. He
hesitated.

“Would you like me to investigate, just to be certain?”

 “No, I am certain you are correct! By all means donot bother Lord Xavius!” Azshara sniffed another
vial. The scent made her blood race in ways she enjoyed. Perhaps she would wearthis one when she met
the god. “After all, I am certain the good counselor has everything in hand.”

***

 The top half of the tower chamber had been sheared off, the lightning bolts sent by the heavens ripping it
away and sending the roof and more hurtling into the black Well below.

Several large chunks of stone had collapsed into the room, killing two of the Highborne and scattering
most of the rest. The shield array and the portal still stood…but both had been badly weakened.

Shrieking winds tore at those within. One sorcerer thrown near the edge by the blasts made the mistake
of rising. The winds caught his robed form, carrying him backward.

With a pathetic shriek, he followed the top of the tower down into the Well.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 An intense downpour battered at the survivors. Still struggling to keep their spells intact, the Highborne
fell to their knees. This did little to preserve them, though, so severe was the storm.

Only two figures remained untouched by the elements. One was Malfurion, his dream form allowing the
wind and rain to pass through harmlessly. The other was Lord Xavius, protected not only by the power
he drew from the Well, but by the evil still managing to leak through from the dark vortex.

 “Impressive!” shouted the counselor. “If, in the end, futile, my young friend! You have but the power of
the Well upon which to draw…while I also have the might of a god!”

 His remarks made Malfurion smile. The lord counselor did not yet realize what he now fought. He
assumed that he still simply faced another adept sorcerer.

 “No, my lord,” the younger night elf called back. “You have it turned around! For you, there’s only the
Well and the supposed might of a demon thatclaims godhood! For me…there’s the power of the world
itself as my ally!”

Xavius sneered. “I’ve no more use for your babbling…”

 Malfurion felt him summon from the Well such power as surely none before ever had. It jarred the druid
for a moment, but then the strength that served Malfurion reassured him.

“You must be stopped,” he declared to the counselor.

“You and the thing you serve must be stopped.”

 Whatever spell Lord Xavius intended to cast, Malfurion would never know. Before the counselor could
complete it, the elements themselves assailed him. Lightning struck again and again at Xavius, burning him
from within and without. His skin blackened and peeled, yet he did not fall.

 The rain became a torrent that poured all its might down on Malfurion’s foe. Xavius seemed to melt
before the younger night elf’s eyes, flesh and muscle sloughing off—and yet the counselor still strained to
reach him.

Then, thunder cracked, thunder so loud that what remained of the tower shook, sending another of the
Highborne into the dark waters of the Well. Thunder so loud it shook Malfurion himself to his very being.

Thunder so loud that Lord Xavius, counselor to the queen and highest of the Highborne—shattered.

 He howled like one of the hellish felbeasts as he exploded, a howl that continued even as the pieces
scattered in the air. The cloud of dust that had once been the advisor spun around and around, tossed
about by an angry, fearsome wind.

The remaining Highborne finally abandoned their posts, fleeing from the wrath of the one who had
bested their feared leader. Malfurion let them depart, knowing that he had depleted himself beyond
measure but still needing to deal with one final matter.

 With Lord Xavius no longer there to protect it, the shield array collapsed easily. A simple gesture from
the young druid finally dismissed the evil spell, removing at last the possible impediment to his people’s
survival. He only prayed that it was not already too late.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




At last, he returned his attention to the portal.

It was but a faint shadow of itself, a mere hole in reality. Malfurion glared at it, knowing that he could not
permanently seal off his world from the evil within…but he could at least give it some respite.

You delay the inevitable…came the voice he dreaded.I will devour your world…just as I have so many
others…

“You’ll find us a sour treat,” Malfurion retorted.

Once again he unleashed the elements.

 The rain washed away the precious pattern over which the portal floated. Bolt after bolt of lightning
struck the very center of the hole, forcing that within to retreat further. The wind swirled around the
weakened spell, tearing away at it with the intensity of a fierce twister.

And the earth…the earth shook, finally succeeding in breaking up the last bits of foundation left to the
high tower.

With no corporeal form, Malfurion had nothing to fear from the collapsing structure. Despite his growing
weariness, he watched it all happen, determined to see for himself that there would be no last reprieve.

 The floor tipped. Instruments of dark sorcery and pieces of what remained of the walls clattered toward
the lower end. A tremendous groan accompanied the collapse.

The tower fell.

As it did, the portal closed in on itself, rapidly shrinking.

 A sudden suction caught Malfurion off guard. He felt his dream form pulled by a powerful force toward
the vanishing hole.

I will still have you…came the faint yet baleful voice.

 The night elf struggled, urging his dream form away from the gap. Dust flowed through him and into the
shrinking portal. Other refuse followed.

The strain became unbearable. He was dragged closer and closer…

Malfurion!Tyrande called.Malfurion!

He clung to her call, trying to use it as a tether. Below him, the last of the tower joined the rest in the
dark abyss of the Well of Eternity. Only Malfurion and the tiny but malevolent hole remained.

Tyrande!he silently called. He shut his eyes, trying to picture her, trying to come to her.

I have you…said a voice he could not identify.

The world turned upside down.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




***

Mannoroth felt the loss. Mannoroth felt the emptiness even before it happened.

The huge, bestial commander paused in the rear of the horde, turning his ugly, tusked head in the
direction of the tower.

The tower that was no longer there.

“Noooooooo!”he roared.



 Rhonin felt it. He felt the sudden surge of power, the surge of strength. He suddenly imagined himself
able to build worlds, take the stars from the heavens and rearrange them to his desire. He was invincible,
omnipotent.

The spell sealing off the Well of Eternity had been destroyed.

 Immediately he looked to Illidan, to see if the young night elf had sensed the same. Rhonin need not have
feared, though, for Illidan clearly had experienced the same rush of strength as he had. In fact, not only
did the Moon Guard all look strong and ready, but so did therest of the defenders as well.

 The Well and the night elves are one,the wizard realized. Even those who could not cast spells were still
tied to it to some extent. Its loss had stripped them in ways that they could never realize. Now, though,
Rhonin saw in every figure, from Lord Ravencrest down to the lowliest soldier, a renewed confidence
and determination. Truly they now thought themselves unbeatable by any force.

Even the Burning Legion.

Horns blared. The night elves gave a collective roar well matching anything emitted prior by the demons.
The front lines of the Legion faltered, not at all certain what this abrupt change meant.

“Have at them!” shouted Ravencrest.

 The defenders surged forward. Demons suddenly found themselves harried as never before. Felbeasts
were slaughtered before they could make their way back to the horde. Tusked warriors dropped one
after another as each time the night elves’ blades sank true. The encroaching Legion was stopped dead in
its tracks.

Illidan led the Moon Guard against the invaders, continuing to guide their efforts through his own spells.
The land itself rippled beneath the Burning Legion’s feet, tossing demons about as if they were nothing.
Several of the winged Doomguard burst into flames as they darted overhead, becoming instead fiery
missiles that added further mayhem to their own ranks.

 Rhonin did not stay out of the battle, either. With the memories of all those who had died this day and all
those who would perish in the future war in mind, he struck again and again at the ones responsible. An
Eredar warlock who foolishly sought to match him was enveloped by his own robes, which twisted tightly
until they snapped the demon in twain. From the wizard then came a punishing series of blue lightning
bolts that methodically hunted down other spellcasters among the Legion, leaving behind only slight piles
of ash to mark the former foes.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 For the first time, true pandemonium broke out among the fearsome warriors. This was not the battle
expected, the bloodshed desired. There was nothing here now save their own deaths, a prospect even
the demons found daunting.

Their lines buckled. The night elves pushed forward.

“We have them now!” shouted Lord Ravencrest. “Give them no quarter!”

 The defenders rallied further around his cry. Despite the imposing size of the invaders, the night elves
advanced undaunted.

 And Rhonin and Illidan continued to pave the way to victory. The wizard looked up, spying several of
the savage Infernals plummeting toward the defenders. As ever, the fiery demons were rolled up into
balls, dropping like boulders to create the most disastrous results.

 For once, Rhonin made some use of Illidan’s tactics. With the Well from which to draw, he created a
huge golden barrier in the sky, one which the Infernals could not avoid. The barrier was not simply a wall,
however, for Rhonin had another purpose in mind. He shaped it according to those desires, curving it and
forcing those demons who crashed into it to bounce instead in the direction he chose.

The very midst of their own army.

 Even the bolts he had cast down upon the demons earlier could not have done as much devastation as
the fearsome behemoths did now. More than two dozen Infernals struck the Legion’s center at various
points, decimating the ranks and creating huge, smoking craters. The bodies of the enemy flew
everywhere, crashing down upon others and multiplying the damage tenfold.

From far to his side, the wizard heard triumphant laughter. Illidan clapped his hands in honor of the
human’s successful effort, then pointed at the harried enemy.

A part of the Burning Legion’s left flank suddenly floundered, many immediately sinking to their knees.
The solid earth below them had become as soup and the heavy, armored forms of the demons could do
nothing but plunge beneath its surface like stones. A few struggled, but, in the end, any who had the
misfortune of being where Illidan had cast vanished.

 With a wave of his hand, the young night elf resolidified the earth, erasing all trace of his victims. He then
turned back to Rhonin and, with a grand flourish, bowed to the wizard.

Rhonin kept his expression set, only nodding again. If nothing else, Illidan surely kept the demons at bay.

At last, under such brutal assault, the Burning Legion did the only thing it could do—retreat en masse.

 There was no horn, no call. The demons simply began to back away. They kept a semblance of order,
but clearly it was all their commanders could do to maintain that much. Even still, they did not move fast
enough to suit the defenders, who took full advantage of the victory.

 The Moon Guard in particular savored the turn of events. They hunted the felbeasts especially, turning
some into gnarled bits of wood, others into rodents. Several simply burst into flames as they ran—their
tails between their legs—for the questionable safety of the Legion ranks.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Here and there, pockets of resistance remained, but those were quickly whittled down by the eager
soldiers. Fel Guard lay everywhere. Rhonin had no doubt that each night elf thought about the countless
dead the Burning Legion had already left in its wake. There had to have been many friends and loved
ones among Zin-Azshari’s victims.

However, one cause for which the night elves continued to fight concerned the wizard. Even now,
Ravencrest shouted her name, using it to further rally the troops.

“For Azshara! For the queen! We ride to her rescue!”

Rhonin had heard Malfurion’s suggestion that the queen was likely as complicit in the slaughter as most
believed her counselor and the Highborne were and he suspected that to be the truth. The wizard could
only keep telling himself that the truth would come out if and when they reached the palace.

Back and back the Burning Legion went, edging into the very borders of the ruined capital. They died in
droves, they died by weapon or wizardry, but theydied. The battle raged unceasingly through the
darkness, the ground buried under the corpses of the fiendish invaders.

 Perhaps it would have gone on, perhaps they could have taken the fight into Zin-Azshari itself and even
reached the palace, but as day forced its will upon night, the defenders at last flagged. They had given
their all in an effort well worth praise, but even Lord Ravencrest saw that to go on would put the night
elves at more risk than they could afford. His expression reluctant, he nonetheless signaled the horns to
sound the halt.

 As the horns called, Illidan’s expression grew cross. He tried to make the Moon Guard follow him
forward, but while some seemed eager enough, all clearly had spent themselves of their physical energy.

 Rhonin, too, was exhausted. True, he could still cast spells of great destruction, but his body was
covered in sweat and he felt faintness in his head if he moved too quickly. His concentration slipped more
and more…

Illidan aside, the rest of the night elves knew that they could go no further—not in the daylight—but that
did not take away from what they had accomplished. True, the threat had not been removed, but they
now saw that the demons were limited. They could be slain. They could be driven back.

 The commander quickly sought volunteers to ride out through the various parts of the night elf realm,
their mission of two purposes. They were to rally those they found in order to create yet a vaster force, a
multipronged defense with which to meet the next assault of the Burning Legion—for surely there would
be one—and also to see the extent of the devastation elsewhere.

 In addition to that effort, the noble also immediately set his personal sorcerer—Illidan—in charge of the
Moon Guard already with them. There was some mild protest from those most senior among the
survivors, but a simple show of power in the form of one last harsh explosion among the retreating
demons quickly silenced the young spellcaster’s critics.

 Pleased with his new status, Illidan sought out Rhonin to tell him. The wizard nodded politely, on the one
hand wondering if he had ever been so enthusiastic when younger, and on the other worried about how
Illidan’s new status would affect his personality. Illidan had greater potential yet than what had so far
been revealed, but his recklessness was a trap that could create of him a danger in its own way as deadly
as the Burning Legion. Rhonin vowed to keep an eye on his counterpart.
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




 Left alone again, the one human among the night elves slowly surveyed the force that had been arrayed
against the demons. Sunlight made their armor glitter, giving the host an epic appearance. They looked
and acted as if they could defeat any enemy. Despite that, however, Rhonin remained aware that they
needed a far greater force if they hoped to win the final struggle. History said that victory was ensured,
but too many factors—himself included—now muddied the outcome. Worse, the Burning Legion was
well aware of the magical might against them; they would be seeking the wizard and Illidan more now.

 Rhonin had been the target of the demons and their allies in his own time. He did not look forward to
repeating that situation.

And what of the one most responsible for this night’s success? Not Rhonin. Not Illidan. Not all the
Moon Guard or Lord Ravencrest and his legions. None of them was the real reason for victory.

What,the weary wizard thought as he gazed out at dark Zin-Azshari and the disorganized horde,what
has happened to Malfurion?


 TWENTY-FOUR
He lay as still as death, that image made all the worse by the fact that none of them could sense any trace
of the link they had once had with him. Tyrande nestled Malfurion’s head in her lap, the soft grass
underneath acting as the rest of his bed.

 “Is he lost to us?” asked a perplexed Jarod Shadowsong. The captain had accompanied the group out
to this location far in the woods, ostensibly to keep an eye on his prisoner, Krasus. He had not played a
role in their spellwork, but had instead ended up acting as guard when the situation had changed. He had
grown from reluctant addition to concerned companion even though he still understood little of what had
taken place.

“No!” Tyrande snapped. In a more apologetic tone, she added, “He can’t be…”

“He does not smell dead,” rumbled Korialstrasz.

 Jarod Shadowsong looked askance each time Korialstrasz spoke. He had yet to grow used to the
presence of the red dragon. It might have amused Tyrande at one time, but not under the present
circumstances. She herself had quickly come to accept the behemoth, especially since she sensed some
hidden relationship between Korialstrasz and Krasus. They seemed almost like brothers or twins.

Thinking of twins made her gaze down at Malfurion again.

 Krasus paced the area. He seemed much healthier now and the young priestess had noted that the effect
had magnified when he had come within sight of the dragon. Unfortunately, that health did not help the
pale figure now, for he appeared as worried as she did about Malfurion—even though Krasus had
clearly never met him before seeing the night elf in the temple.

Brox knelt across from Tyrande, his ax placed next to his stricken friend. The orc’s head was buried in
his chest and she could hear him muttering what sounded like a prayer.

“The area was charged with powerful magical forces,” murmured Krasus to himself. “It could have
dispersed parts of his dream self to every corner of the world. He might be able to regather himself…but
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




the odds of that…”

 Captain Shadowsong looked around at the others. “Forgive this impertinent question, but did he at least
accomplish what he hoped to?”

The cowled figure turned to him, expression flat. “He did do that at least. I pray it is enough.”

 “Stop talking like that…” Tyrande insisted. She wiped a tear from her eye, then gazed up at the sunlit
sky. Despite the brightness, Tyrande refused to look away. “Elune, Mother Moon, forgive this servant
for disturbing your rest! I do not dare ask for him to be returned…but at least give us an answer as to his
fate!”

But no glorious light shone down on Malfurion. The moon did not suddenly appear and speak to them.

 “Perhaps it would be better if we brought him back to the temple,” suggested the Guard captain.
“Maybe she can hear him better there…”

Tyrande did not bother to answer him.

 Krasus paused in his pacing. He stared to the south, where the woods thickened. His eyes narrowed
and he pursed his lips in frustration. “I know you are there.”

“And I now know what you are,” returned a booming voice.

 The nearest trees suddenly melded together, forming a figure with a lower torso akin to that of a huge
stag and a chest, arms, and face more like those of Tyrande and Jarod Shadowsong.

Fists tight, Cenarius moved slowly toward the band. He and Krasus matched gazes for a time, then both
nodded in respect.

The forest lord walked over to where Tyrande held Malfurion. Brox respectfully stepped out of the way
while the Guard captain stared open-mouthed from where he stood.

“Daughter of my dear Elune, your tears touch the heaven and the earth.”

“I cry for him, my lord…one you also loved.”

Cenarius nodded. His forelegs bent in a kneeling motion and he touched Malfurion’s forehead ever so
gently. “He is a son to me…and so I am pleased that he has one like you who also holds him so near…”

“I—we’ve been friends since childhood.”

 The forest lord chuckled, a sound that brought songbirds near and made a cool, refreshing breeze caress
the cheeks of each in the party. “Yes, I heard your pleas to dear Elune, both the spoken and unspoken
ones.”

Tyrande did not hide her embarrassment. “But all my entreaties have been for nothing.”

His expression turned to one of honest puzzlement. “Did you think that? Why would I come, then?”

The others froze. The novice priestess shook her head. “I don’t understand!”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Because you are young still. Wait until you reach my age…” With that, Cenarius opened his left hand.

An emerald light rose from his open palm. It floated a few inches above as if orienting itself.

 Rising, the demigod stepped back to observe his student. “I walked the Emerald Dream, seeking
answers to our many terrible questions. I hunted through there looking for what could be done about
these followers of death…” A gentle smile crossed his bearded visage. “…and imagine my surprise when
I found one I knew drifting in the Emerald Dream…but in a very dazed and much confused state. Why,
he didn’t evenknow himself, much less me!”

And as Cenarius finished, the light drifted over to Malfurion, sinking harmlessly into his head.

The night elf’s eyes opened.



“Malfurion!”

 Tyrande’s voice was the first thing that registered with Malfurion and he quickly seized upon it, using it
as a tether, a lifeline. He pulled himself from the abyss of unconsciousness toward a bright but comforting
light.

And when he opened his eyes, it was to see Tyrande under the morning sun. Surprisingly, the daylight
did not bother him and he even thought that it revealed to him a Tyrande so beautiful he could not at first
believe it.

 He almost told her, but then the presence of the others made him shut his feelings inside again. He settled
for touching her hand, then acknowledging the others.

“The—the shield—” His voice sounded like that of a frog.

“Is it—”

 “Gone,” replied a figure who was and was not a night elf. To Malfurion, surely this had to be Krasus.
“For now, the Burning Legion has been held in check…at least in one place.”

Malfurion nodded. He knew that the war was not over, that his people still faced annihilation. Yet, that
did not take away from the night’s triumph. If nothing else, there was still hope.

“We will fight them,” Tyrande promised. “We will save our world.”

 “They can be beaten,” agreed Brox, brandishing proudly the weapon that the young druid had helped
create. “This I know.”

Krasus remained pragmatic. “They can…but we will need more help. We will need the dragons.”

“You’ll need more than the dragons!” Cenarius bellowed.

“And I go now to see to that!” He stepped from the others, but gave Malfurion one last smile. “You’ve
made me proud, mythero’shan …my honored student.”
   Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html




“Thank you, shan’do.” He watched as the demigod melted back into the trees.

“Do we return to Suramar now?” asked a figure in a Guard officer’s uniform. Malfurion could not place
him, but assumed the others had a reason for him being here.

“Yes,” said Krasus. “We return to Suramar.”

 With Tyrande’s help, Malfurion rose. “But only for a short time. The portal through which the demons
flowed was destroyed, but, unlike the shield, the Highborne can remake it easily. More will come, I’m
afraid.”

 Despite his wish otherwise, no one disagreed. Malfurion looked to the direction of Zin-Azshari. A
terrible evil had come to his land, one that had to be stopped before it could raze all in its path. Malfurion
had helped in great part to stop the Burning Legion’s initial advance and, for reasons he could not himself
explain, he did not doubt that it would somehow fall to him again to assist in keeping the invading demons
from destroying his beloved Kalimdor.

Malfurion only prayed that when that time came he would be found ready to face them…or else not only
Kalimdor but theentire world risked obliteration.



CONTINUED IN

WAR OF THE ANCIENTS

BOOK TWO

THE DEMON SOUL



 ABOUT THE AUTHOR
 Richard A. Knaak isThe New York Times bestselling fantasy author of 26 novels and over a dozen
short pieces, including THE LEGEND OF HUMA and NIGHT OF BLOOD forDragonlance and DAY
OF THE DRAGON forWarCraft. He has also written the popularDragonrealm series and several
independent pieces. His works have been published in several languages, most recently Russian, Turkish,
Chinese, Czech, German, and Spanish. He has also adapted the Korean Manga, RAGNAROK,
published by Tokyopop, for American audiences and will be overseeing the newWarCraft Manga, the
first volume of which will be out about the same time as WELL OF ETERNITY. In addtion to the
second volume of WAR OF THE ANCIENTS—THE DEMON SOUL, the author is at work on
EMPIRE OF BLOOD, the final book in his epicDragonlance trilogy, THE MINOTAUR WARS.

Future works include THE BURNING LEGION—the conclusion to theWarCraft trilogy—and a third
Diablo novel. His most recent hardcover, TIDES OF BLOOD, the sequel to NIGHT, was just released
by Wizards of the Coast.
Generated by ABC Amber LIT Converter, http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
Contents
Prologue

The Lonely Tower

One

Karazhan

Two

Interview with the Magus

Three

Settling In

Four

Battle and Aftermath

Five

Sands in an Hourglass

Six

Aegwynn and Sargeras

Seven

Stormwind

Eight

Lessons

Nine

The Slumber of the Magus

Ten

The Emissary

Eleven

Garona
Twelve

Life in Wartime

Thirteen

The Second Shadow

Fourteen

Flight

Fifteen

Beneath Karazhan

Sixteen

The Breaking of a Mage

Epilogue

Full Circle

About the Author




There was a sluggishness to the magic in this room. It was a thick feeling, like stale air in a room that had
been shuttered for years. Khadgar tried to pull the energies together, but they seemed to resist, to follow
his desires with only the greatest reluctance.

 Khadgar’s face grew stern as he tried to pull more of the power of the room, the energies, into himself.
This was a simple spell. If anything, it should be easier in this spellroom, where such castings would be
commonplace. Suddenly the young mage was swamped with the thick, fetid feel of the magic. It fell upon
him in a thick blanket, crushing the spell and driving him physically to his knees. Despite himself, he cried
out.

 Medivh was at his side at once, helping the young mage to his feet. “There, there,” he said. “I didn’t
expect you to succeed even that well. Good try.”

“What is it?” managed Khadgar, suddenly able to breathe again. “It was like nothing I’ve felt before.”

“That’s good news for you, then,” said Medivh. “The magic has been twisted here, a result of what
happened earlier.”

“You mean like a haunting?” said Khadgar. “Even in Karazhan, I never…”

“No, not like that,” said Medivh. “Something much worse. The two dead mages here were summoning
demons. It’s that taint that you feel. A demon was here.”




 This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are products of the author’s
imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons living or dead
is entirely coincidental.

AnOriginal Publication of POCKET BOOKS



      POCKET BOOKS, a division of Simon & Schuster, Inc. 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New
York, NY 10020

 Copyright © 2002 by Blizzard Entertainment. All rights reserved. Warcraft and Blizzard Entertainment
are trademarks or registered trademarks of Blizzard Entertainment in the U.S. and/or other countries. All
other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever.
For information address Pocket Books, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020

ISBN: 0-7434-2314-3
POCKET and colophon are registered trademarks of Simon & Schuster, Inc.

Visit us on the World Wide Web:
http://www.SimonSays.com

To Chris Metzen,
Who Kept the Vision


THE LAST
GUARDIAN
 Prologue
 The Lonely Tower
 The larger of the two moons had risen first this evening, and now hung pregnant and silver-white against
a clear, star-dappled sky. Beneath the lambent moon the peaks of the Redridge Mountains strained for
the sky. In the daylight the sun picked out hues of magenta and rust among the great granite peaks, but in
the moonlight they were reduced to tall, proud ghosts. To the west lay the Forest of Elwynn, its heavy
canopy of greatoaks and satinwoods running from the foothills to the sea. To the east, the bleak swamp
of the Black Morass spread out, a land of marshes and low hills, bayous and backwaters, failed
settlements and lurking danger. A shadow passed briefly across the moon, a raven-sized shadow,
bearing for a hole in the heart of the mountain.

 Here a chunk had been pulled from the fastness of the Redridge Range, leaving behind a circular vale.
Once it might have been the site of some primeval celestial impact or the memory of an earth-shaking
explosion, but the aeons had worn the bowl-shaped crater into a series of steep-edged, rounded hillocks
which were now cradled by the steeped mountains surrounding them. None of the ancient trees of
Elwynn could reach its altitude, and the interior of the ringed hills was barren save for weeds and tangled
vines.

 At the center of the ringed hills lay a bare tor, as bald as the pate of a Kul Tiras merchant lord. Indeed
the very way the hillock rose steeply, than gentled to a near-level slope at its apex, was similar in shape
to a human skull. Many had noted it over the years, though only a few had been sufficiently brave, or
powerful, or tactless to mention it to the property’s owner.

At the flattened peak of the tor rose an ancient tower, a thick, massive protrusion of white stone and
dark mortar, a man-made eruption that shot effortlessly into the sky, scaling higher than the surrounding
hills, lit like a beacon by the moonlight. There was a low wall at the base of the tower surrounding a
bailey, and within those walls the tumbledown remains of a stable and a smithy, but the tower itself
dominated all within the ringed hills.

Once this place was called Karazhan. Once it was home of the last of the mysterious and secretive
Guardians of Tirisfal. Once it was a living place. Now it was simply abandoned and timelost.

There was silence upon the tower but not a stillness. In the night’s embrace quiet shapes flitted from
window to window, and phantoms danced along the balconies and parapets. Less than ghosts, but more
than memories, these were nothing less than pieces of the past that had become unstuck from the flow of
time. These shadows of the past had been pried loose by the madness of the tower’s owner, and were
now condemned to play out their histories again and again, in the silence of the abandoned tower.
Condemned to play but denied of any audience to appreciate them.

 Then in the silence, there was the soft scrape of a booted foot against stone, then another. A flash of
movement beneath the lambent moon, a shadow against the white stone, a flutter of a tattered, red-hued
cloak in the cool night air. A figure walked along the topmost parapet, on the crenellated uppermost spire
that years before had served as an observatory.

 The parapet door into the observatory screeched open on ancient hinges, then stopped, frozen by rust
and the passage of time. The cloaked figure paused a moment, then placed a finger on the hinge, and
muttered a few choice words. The door swung open silently, the hinges made as if new. The trespasser
allowed himself a smile.

 The observatory was empty now, what tools that remained smashed and abandoned. The trespassing
figure, almost as silent as a ghost himself, picked up a crushed astrolabe, its scale twisted in some
now-forgotten rage. Now it is merely a heavy piece of gold, inert and useless in his hands.

 There was other movement in the observatory, and the trespasser looked up. Now a ghostly figure
stood nearby, near one of the many windows. The ghost/non-ghost was an broad-shouldered man, hair
and beard once dark but now going to a premature gray at the edges. The figure was one of the shards
of the past, unglued and now repeating its task, regardless of whether it had observers or not. For the
moment, the dark-haired man held the astrolabe, the unbroken twin to the one in the trespasser’s hands,
and fiddled with a small knob along one side. A moment, a check, and a twitch of the knob. His dark
brows furrowed over ghostly green eyes. A second moment, another check, and another twitch. Finally,
the tall, imposing figure sighed deeply and placed the astrolabe on a table that was no longer there, and
vanished.

 The trespasser nodded. Such hauntings were common even in the days when Karazhan was inhabited,
though now, stripped of the control (and the madness) of their master, they had become more brazen.
Yet these shards of the past belonged here, while he did not. He was the interloper, not they.

The trespasser crossed the room to its staircase leading down, while behind him the older man flickered
back into the view and repeated his action, sighting his astrolabe on a planet that had long since moved to
other parts of the sky.

 The trespasser moved down through the tower, crossing levels to reach other stairs and other hallways.
No door was shut to him, even those locked and bolted, or sealed by rust and age. A few words, a
touch, a gesture and the fetters flew loose, the rust dissolved into ruddy piles, the hinges restored. In one
or two places ancient wards still glowed, potent despite their age. He paused before them for a moment,
considering, reflecting, searching his memory for the correct counter-sign. He spoke the correct word,
made the correct motion with his hands, shattered the weak magic that remained, and passed on.

 As he moved through the tower, the phantoms of the past grew more agitated and more active. Now
with a potential audience, it seemed that these pieces of the past wished to play themselves out, if only to
be made free of this place. Any sound they once possessed had long-since eroded away, leaving only
their images moving through the halls.

The interloper passed an ancient butler in dark livery, the frail old man shuffling slowly down the empty
hallway, carrying a silver tray and wearing a set of horse-blinders. The interloper passed through the
library, where a green-fleshed young woman stood with her back to him, pouring over an ancient tome.
He passed through a banquet hall, at one end a group of musicians playing soundlessly, dancers twirling
in a gavotte. At the other end a great city burned, its flames beating ineffectively against the stone walls
and rotting tapestries. The trespasser moved through the silent flames, but his face grew drawn and tense
as he witnessed once more the mighty city of Stormwind burn around him.

 In one room three young men sat around a table and told now-unknown lies. Metal mugs were scattered
on the table’s surface as well as beneath it. The trespasser stood watching this image for a long time, until
a phantom taverness brought another round. Then he shook his head and pressed on.

 He reached nearly the ground level, and stepped out on a low balcony that hung precariously to the wall,
like a wasps’ nest over the main entrance. There, in the wide space before the tower, between the main
entrance and a now-collapsed stables across the bailey, stood a single ghostly image, lonely and
separated. It did not move like the others, but rather stood there, waiting, tentative. A piece of the past
that had not been released. A piece that was waiting for him.

 The immobile image was of a young man with a skunk stripe of white running through his dark, untidy
head of hair. The straggling fragments of a beard, newly grown, clung to his face. A battered rucksack
lay at the youth’s feet, and he held a red-sealed letter with a deathlike grip.

 This was well and truly no ghost, the trespasser knew, though the owner of this image may yet be dead,
fallen in combat beneath a foreign sun. This was a memory, a shard of the past, trapped like an insect in
amber, waiting for its release. Waiting for his arrival.

 The trespasser sat on the stonework ledge of the balcony and looked out, beyond the bailey, beyond the
hillock, and beyond the ringed hills. There was silence in the moonlight, as the mountains themselves
seemed to be holding their breath, waiting for him.

 The trespasser lifted a hand and intoned a series of chanted words. Softly came the rhymes and rhythms
the first time, then louder, and finally louder still, shattering the calm. In the distance wolves picked up his
chant and cast it back in howling counterpoint.

 And the image of the ghostly youth, its feet seemingly trapped in mud, took a deep breath, hoisted his
rucksack of secrets to his shoulder, and slogged his way toward the main entrance of Medivh’s Tower.


 One
 Karazhan
 Khadgar clutched the crimson-sealed letter of introduction and desperately tried to remember his own
name. He had ridden for days, accompanying various caravans, and finally making the journey alone to
Karazhan through the vast, overgrown, woods of Elwynn. Then the long climb into the heights of the
mountains, to this serene, empty, lonely place. Even the air felt cold and apart. Now, sore and tired, the
scruffy-bearded young man stood in the gathering dusk of the courtyard, petrified of what he now must
do.

Introduce himself to the most powerful mage of Azeroth.

An honor, the scholars of the Kirin Tor had said. An opportunity, they insisted, that was not to be
missed. Khadgar’s sage mentors, a conclave of influential scholars and sorcerers, told him they had been
trying to insinuate a sympathetic ear in the tower of Karazhan for years. The Kirin Tor wanted to learn
what knowledge the most powerful wizard in the land had hidden away in his library. They wanted to
know what research he favored. And most of all they wanted this maverick mage to start planning for his
legacy, wanted to know when the great and powerful Medivh planned to train an heir.

 The Great Medivh and the Kirin Tor had been at loggerheads on these and other matters for years,
apparently, and only now did he relent to some of their entreaties. Only now would he take on an
apprentice. Whether it was from a softening of the wizard’s reportedly hard heart, or mere diplomatic
concession, or a feeling of the mage’s own creeping mortality, it did not matter to Khadgar’s masters.
The simple truth was that this powerful independent (and to Khadgar, mysterious) wizard had asked for
an assistant, and the Kirin Tor, which ruled over the magical kingdom of Dalaran, were more than happy
to comply.

 So the youth Khadgar was selected and shuttled off with a list of directions, orders, counter-orders,
requests, suggestions, advice, and other demands from his sorcerous masters. Ask Medivh about his
mother’s battles with demons, asked Guzbah, his first instructor. Find out all you can about elven history
from his library, requested Lady Delth. Check his volumes for any bestiaries, commanded Alonda, who
was convinced that there was a fifth species of troll as yet un-recorded in her own volumes. Be direct,
forthright, and honest, advised Norlan the Chief Artificer—the Great Magus Medivh seemed to value
those traits. Be diligent and do what you’re told. Don’t slouch. Always seem interested. Stand up
straight. And above all, keep your ears and eyes open.

 The ambitions of the Kirin Tor did not bother Khadgar horribly—his upbringing in Dalaran and his early
apprenticeship to the conclave made it clear to him that his mentors were insatiably curious about magic
in all its forms. Their continual accumulation, cataloging, and definition of magic were imprinted on young
students at an early age, and Khadgar was no different than most.

 Indeed, he realized, his own curiosity may have accounted for his current plight. His own nocturnal
wanderings through the halls of the Violet Citadel of Dalaran had uncovered more than a few secrets that
the conclave would rather not have noised about. The Chief Artificer’s fondness for flamewine, for
example, or Lady Delth’s preference for young cavaliers a slender fraction of her age, or Korrigan the
Librarian’s secret collection of pamphlets describing (in lurid fashion) the practices of historical
demon-worshipers.

 And there was something about one of the great sages of Dalaran, venerable Arrexis, one of the gray
eminences that even the others respected. He had disappeared, or died, or something horrible had
happened, and the others chose to make no mention of it, even to the point of excising Arrexis’s name
from the volumes and not speaking of him again. But Khadgar had found out, nonetheless. Khadgar had
a way of finding the necessary reference, making the needed connection, or talking to the right person at
the right time. It was a gift and may yet prove to be a curse.

 Any one of these discoveries could have resulted in his drawing this prestigious (and for all the planning
and warnings, potentially fatal) assignment. Perhaps they thought young Khadgar was a littletoo good at
ferreting out secrets—easier for the conclave to send him somewhere where his curiosity would do some
good for the Kirin Tor. Or at least put him far enough away so he wasn’t finding things out about the
other natives of the Violet Citadel.

And Khadgar, through his relentless eavesdropping, had heardthat theory as well.

So Khadgar set out with a rucksack filled with notes, a heart filled with secrets, and a head filled with
strong demands and useless advice. In the final week before leaving Dalaran, he had heard from nearly
every member of the conclave, each of whom was interested in something about Medivh. For a wizard
living on the butt-end of nowhere, surrounded by trees and ominous peaks, the members of the Kirin Tor
were extremely curious about him. Urgent, even.

Taking a deep breath (and in doing so reminding himself that he still was too close to the stables),
Khadgar strode forward toward the tower itself, his feet feeling like he was pulling his pack-pony along
by his ankles.

 The main entrance yawned like a cavern’s mouth, without gate or portcullis. That made sense, for what
army would fight its way through the Forest of Elwynn to top the rounded walls of the crater, all to fight
the Magus Medivh himself? There was no record of anyone or anything even attempting to besiege
Karazhan.

 The shadowed entrance was tall enough to let an elephant in full livery pass beneath. Overhanging it
slightly was a wide balcony with a balustrade of white stone. From that perch one would be level with the
surrounding hills and gain a view of the mountains beyond. There was a flicker of motion along the
balustrade, a bit of movement that Khadgarfelt more than actually witnessed. A robed figure, perhaps,
moving back along the balcony into the tower itself. Was he being watched even now? Was there no one
to greet him, or was he expected to brave the tower on his own?

 “You are the New Young Man?” said a soft, almost sepulchral voice, and Khadgar, his head still craned
upward, nearly jumped out of his skin. He wheeled to see a stooped, thin figure emerge out of the
shadows of the entranceway.

 The stooped thing looked marginally human, and for a moment Khadgar wondered if Medivh was
mutating forest animals to work as his servants. This one looked like a hairless weasel, its long face was
framed by what looked like a pair of black rectangles.

 Khadgar didn’t remember making any response, but the weasel person stepped farther from the
shadows, and repeated itself.

 “You are the New Young Man?” it said. Each word was enunciated with its own breath, encapsulated in
its own little box, capitalized and separate from the others. It stepped from the shadows fully and
revealed itself as nothing more or less threatening than a whip-slender elderly man in dark worsted livery.
A servant—human, but a servant. It, or rather he, was still wearing black rectangles on the sides of his
head, like a set of earmuffs, that extended forward to his most prominent nose.

 The youth realized that he was staring at the old man, “Khadgar,” he said, then after a moment presented
the tightly held letter of introduction. “Of Dalaran. Khadgar of Dalaran, in the kingdom of Lordaeron. I
was sent by the Kirin Tor. From the Violet Citadel. I am Khadgar of the Kirin Tor. From the Violet
Citadel. Of Dalaran. In Lordaeron.” He felt like he was casting conversational stones into a great, empty
well, hoping that the old man would respond to any of them.

 “Of course you are, Khadgar,” said the old man. “Of the Kirin Tor. Of the Violet Citadel. Of Dalaran.
Of Lordaeron.” The servant took the proffered letter as if the document were a live reptile and, after
smoothing out its crumpled edges, tucked it inside his livery vest without opening it. After carrying and
protecting it for so many miles, Khadgar felt a pain of loss. The letter of introduction represented his
future, and he was loath to see it disappear, even for a moment.

“The Kirin Tor sent me to assist Medivh. Lord Medivh. The Wizard Medivh. Medivh of Karazhan,”
Khadgar realized he was but a half-step from collapsing into a full-fledged babble, and with a definitive
effort tightly clamped his mouth shut.

 “I’m sure they did,” said the servant. “Send you, that is.” He appraised the seal on the letter, and a thin
hand dipped into his waistcoat, pulling out a set of black rectangles bound by a thin band of metal.
“Blinders?”

Khadgar blinked. “No. I mean, no thank you.”

“Moroes,” said the servant.

Khadgar shook his head.

 “I am Moroes,” the servant said. “Steward of the Tower. Castellan to Medivh. Blinders?” Again he
raised the black rectangles, twins to those that framed his narrow face.

“No thank you…Moroes,” said Khadgar, his face twisted in curiosity.

The servant turned and motioned that Khadgar follow with a weak wave of the arm.

 Khadgar picked up his rucksack and had to lope forward to catch up with the servant. For all his
supposed fragility the steward moved at a good clip.

 “Are you alone in the tower?” Khadgar ventured as they started climbing a curved set of wide, low
stairs. The stone dipped in the center, worn by myriad feet of passing servants and guests.

“Eh?” responded the servant.

 “Are you alone?” repeated Khadgar, wondering if he would be reduced to speaking as Moroes spoke
in order to be understood. “Do you live here by yourself?”

“The Magus is here,” responded Moroes in a wheezing voice that sounded as faint and as fatal as grave
dust.

“Yes, of course,” said Khadgar.

“Wouldn’t be much point for you to be here if he wasn’t,” continued the steward. “Here, that is.”
Khadgar wondered if the old man’s voice sounded that way because it was not used that often.

“Of course,” agreed Khadgar. “Anyone else?”

“You, now,” continued Moroes. “More work to take care of two than one. Not that I was consulted.”

 “So just you and the Wizard, then, normally?” said Khadgar, wondering if the steward had been hired
(or created) for his taciturn nature.

“And Cook,” said Moroes, “Though Cook doesn’t talk much. Thank you for asking, though.”

 Khadgar tried to restrain himself from rolling his eyes, but failed. He hoped that the blinders on either
side of the steward’s face kept the servant from seeing his response.
 They reached a level spot, a cross-hallway lit by torches. Moroes crossed immediately to another set of
saddle-worn, curving stairs opposite them. Khadgar paused for a moment to examine the torches. He
raised a hand mere inches from the flickering flame, but felt no heat. Khadgar wondered if the cold flame
was common throughout the tower. In Dalaran they used phosphorescent crystals, which beamed with a
steady, constant glow, though his research spoke of reflective mirrors, elemental spirits bound within
lanterns, and in one case, huge captive fireflies. Yet these flames seemed to be frozen in place.

 Moroes, half-mounted up the next staircase, slowly turned and let out a gasping cough. Khadgar hurried
to catch up. Apparently the blinders did not limit the old steward that much.

“Why the blinders?” Khadgar asked.

“Eh?” replied Moroes.

Khadgar touched the side of his head. “The blinders. Why?”

 Moroes twisted his face in what Khadgar could only assume was a smile. “Magic’s strong here. Strong,
and wrong, sometimes. You see…things…around here. Unless you’re careful. I’m careful. Other
visitors, the ones before you, they were less careful. They’re gone now.”

Khadgar thought of the phantom he may or may not have seen on the overhanging balcony, and nodded.

 “Cook has a set of rose-quartz lenses,” added Moroes. “Swears by them.” He paused for a moment,
then added, “Cook is a bit foolish that way.”

Khadgar hoped that Moroes would be more chatty once he was warmed up. “So, you’ve been in the
Magus’s household for long?”

“Eh?” said Moroes again.

“You’ve been with Medivh long?” Khadgar said, hoping to keep the impatience out of his voice.

“Ayep,” said the steward. “Long enough. Too long. Seems like years. Time’s like that here.” The
weathered steward let his voice trail off and the two climbed in silence.

“What do you know about him?” ventured Khadgar, finally. “The Magus, I mean.”

“Question is,” said Moroes, pulling open yet another door to reveal yet another staircase up. “What do
you know?”



 Khadgar’s own research in the matter was surprisingly unproductive, and his results were frustratingly
sparse. Despite access to the Violet Citadel’s Grand Library (and surreptitious access to a few private
libraries and secret collections), there was precious little on this great and powerful Medivh. This was
doubly odd, since every elder mage in Dalaran seemed to hold Medivh in awe, and wanted one thing or
another from him. Some favor, some boon, some bit of information.

Medivh was apparently a young man, as wizards went. He was merely in his forties, and for a grand
bulk of that time seemed to have made no impact whatsoever on his surroundings. This was a surprise to
Khadgar. Most of the tales he had heard and read described independent wizards as being extremely
showy, fearless in dabbling in secrets man was not meant to know, and usually dead, crippled, or
damned from messing with powers and energies beyond their ken. Most of the lessons he had learned as
a child about non-Dalaran mages always ended in the same fashion—without restraint, control, and
thought, the wild, untrained, and self-taught wizards always came to a bad end (sometimes, though not
often, destroying a large amount of the surrounding countryside with them).

 The fact that Medivh had failed to bring a castle down on top of himself, or disperse his atoms across
the Twisting Nether, or summon a dragon without knowing how to control that dragon, indicated either
great restraint or great power. From the fuss that the scholars had made about his appointment, and the
list of instructions he had received, Khadgar decided on the latter.

 Yet for all his research, he could not figure out why. Nothing indicated any great research of this
Medivh’s, any major discovery, nor any ground-shaking achievement, that would account for obvious
awe in which the Kirin Tor held this independent mage. No huge wars, great conquests, or known mighty
battles. The bards were noticeably sketchy when it came to the matters involving Medivh, and otherwise
diligent heralds nodded when it came time to discuss his accomplishments.

And yet, realized Khadgar, there was something important here, something that created in the scholars a
mixture of fear, respect, and envy. The Kirin Tor held no other spellcasters as their equals for magical
knowledge, indeed often sought to hinder those wizards who did not hold allegiance to the Violet Citadel.
And yet they kowtowed to Medivh. Why?

 Khadgar had only the smallest bits—a bit on his parentage (Guzbah was particularly interested in
Medivh’s mother), some margin notes in a grimoire invoking his name, and mention of the occasional visit
to Dalaran. All these visits were within the past five years, and apparently Medivh met only with elder
mages, such as the now-missing Arrexis.

 To sum up, Khadgar knew previous little of this supposedly great mage he was assigned to work for.
And as he considered knowledge to be his armor and sword, he felt woefully underequipped for the
coming encounter.



Aloud, he said, “Not much.”

“Eh?” responded Moroes, half-turning on the staircase.

 “I said I don’t know much,” said Khadgar, louder than he meant to. His voice bounced off the bare
walls of the stairway. It was curved now, and Khadgar was wondering if the tower was truly as high as it
seemed. Already his thighs were aching from the climb.

“Of course you don’t,” said Moroes. “Know, that is. Young people never know much. That’s what
makes them young, I suppose.”

 “I mean,” said Khadgar, irritated. He paused and took a deep breath. “I mean, I don’t know much
about Medivh. You asked.”

Moroes held for a moment, his foot poised on the next step, “I suppose I did,” he said at last.

“Whatis he like?” asked Khadgar, his voice almost pleading.
“Like everyone else, I suppose,” said Moroes. “Has his druthers. Has his moods. Good days and bad.
Like everybody else.”

“Puts his pants on one leg at a time,” said Khadgar, sighing.

 “No. He levitates into them,” said Moroes. The old servant looked at Khadgar, and the youth caught the
slightest tug of a smile along the old man’s face. “One more set of stairs.”

 The final set of stairs curled tightly, and Khadgar guessed that they had to be near the tower’s highest
spire. The old servant led the way.

 The stairway opened up on a small circular room, surrounded by a wide parapet. As Khadgar had
surmised, they were at the topmost tip of the tower, with a large observatory. The walls and ceilings were
pierced by crystalline windows, clear and unfogged. In the time of their climb, night had fallen fully, and
the sky was dark and strewn with stars.

The observatory itself was dim, lit by a few torches of the same, unwavering light as found elsewhere.
Yet these were hooded, their lamps banked for observing the night sky. An unlit brazier sat in the middle
of the room in preparation for later, as the temperature would drop toward morning.

 Several large curved tables spread around the outer wall of the observatory, decked with all manner of
devices. Silver levels and golden astrolabes acted as paperweights for foolscap, or as bookmarks
keeping ancient texts open to certain pages. A half-disassembled model, showing planetary movement
through the celestial vault, sat on one table, fine wires and additional beads laid out among the delicate
tools next to it. Notebooks lay stacked against one wall, and others were in crates jammed beneath the
tables. A map of the continent was stretched on a frame, showing the southern lands of Azeroth and
Khadgar’s own Lordaeron, as well as the reclusive dwarven and elven kingdoms of Khaz Modan and
Quel’Thalas. Numerous small pins bedecked the map, constellations that only Medivh could decipher.

 And Medivh was there, for to Khadgar it could be no other. He was a man of middling years, his hair
long and bound in a ponytail in the back. In his youth his hair had likely been ebon black, but now it was
already turning gray at the temples and along the beard. Khadgar knew that this happened to many
mages, from the stress of the magical energies they wielded.

 Medivh was dressed in robes simple for a mage—well cut and fitted to his large frame. A short tabard,
unadorned by decoration, hung to his waist, over trousers tucked into oversize boots. A heavy maroon
cloak hung from his broad shoulders, the hood pulled back.

 As Khadgar’s eyes adjusted to the darkness, he realized that he was wrong about the wizard’s clothing
being unadorned. Instead, it was laced with silver filigree, of such a delicate nature that it was invisible at
first blush. Looking at the mage’s back, Khadgar realized he was looking at the stylized face of some
ancient demon-legend. He blinked, and in that time the tracery transformed itself into a coiled dragon,
and then into a night sky.

Medivh had his back to the old servant and the young man, ignoring them entirely. He was standing at
one of the tables, a golden astrolabe in one hand, a notebook in the other. He seemed lost in thought, and
Khadgar wondered if this was one of the “things” that Moroes had warned him about.

 Khadgar cleared his throat and took a step forward, but Moroes raised a hand. Khadgar froze in place,
as surely as if transfixed with a magical spell.
Instead the old servant walked quietly to one side of the master mage, waiting for Medivh to recognize
his presence. A minute passed. A second minute. Then a period that Khadgar swore was an eternity.

 Finally, the robed figure set down his astrolabe, and made three quick jots in the notebook. He closed
the book with sharp snap, and looked over at Moroes.

 Seeing his face for the first time, Khadgar thought that Medivh was much older than his supposed
forty-plus years. The face was deeply lined and worn. Khadgar wondered what magics Medivh wielded
that wrote such a deep history on his face.

Moroes dipped into his vest and brought out the crumpled letter of introduction, the crimson seal now
bloodred in the steady, unflickering torchlight. Medivh turned and regarded the youth.

 The mage’s eyes were deeply set beneath his dark, heavy brows, but Khadgar was aware at once of the
power within. Something danced and flickered within those deep green eyes, something powerful, and
perhaps uncontrolled. Something dangerous. The master mage glanced at him, and in a moment Khadgar
felt that the wizard had taken in his sum total of existence and found it no more intriguing than that of a
beetle or flea.

 Medivh looked away from Khadgar and at the still-sealed letter of introduction. Khadgar felt himself
relax almost immediately, as if a large and hungry predator had stalked past him without giving him a
second look.

 His relief was short-lived. Medivh did not open the letter. Instead his brows furrowed only slightly, and
the parchment burst into flames with an explosive rush of air. The flames clustered at the far end of the
document from where Medivh held it, and flickered with an intense, blue flame.

When Medivh spoke his voice was both deep and amused.

“So,” said Medivh, oblivious to the fact he was holding Khadgar’s future burning in his hand. “It seems
our young spy has arrived at last.”


 Two
 Interview with the Magus
 Is something wrong?” asked Medivh, and Khadgar suddenly felt himself under the master mage’s gaze
again. He felt like a beetle again, but this time one that had inadvertently crawled across a bug-collector’s
work desk. The flames had already consumed half the letter of introduction, and the wax seal was
already melting, dripping onto the observatory’s flagstones.

Khadgar was aware that his eyes were wide, his face bloodless and pale, and his mouth hanging open.
He tried to force the air out of his body, but all his managed was a strangled, hissing sound.

The dark, heavy brows pursed in a bemused glance. “Are you ill? Moroes, is this lad ill?”

“Winded, perhaps,” said Moroes in a level tone. “Was a long climb up.”

Finally Khadgar managed to gather his senses about him sufficiently to say, “The letter!”
 “Ah,” said Medivh. “Yes. Thank you, I had almost forgotten.” He walked over to the brazier and
dropped the burning parchment on top of the coals. The blue ball of flame rose spectacularly to about
shoulder height, and them diminished into a normal-looking flame, filling the room with a warm, reddish
glow. Of the letter of introduction, with its parchment and crimson seal inscribed with the symbol of the
Kirin Tor, there was no sign.

“But you didn’t read it!” said Khadgar, then caught himself, “I mean, sir, with respect…”

 The master mage chuckled and settled himself into a large chair made of canvas and dark carved wood.
The brazier lit his face, pulling out the deep lines formed into a smile. Despite this, Khadgar could not
relax.

 Medivh leaned forward in his chair and said, “‘Oh Great and Respected Magus Medivh, Master Mage
of Karazhan, I bring you the greetings of the Kirin Tor, most learned and puissant of the magical
academies, guilds, and societies, advisors to the kings, teachers of the learned, revealers of secrets.’
They continue on in that fashion for some ways, puffing themselves up more with every sentence. How
am I doing so far?”

“I couldn’t say,” said Khadgar, “I was instructed—”

“Not to open the letter,” finished Medivh. “But you did, anyway.”

 The master mage raised his eyes to regard the young man, and Khadgar’s breath caught in his throat.
Something flickered in Medivh’s eyes, and Khadgar wondered if the master mage had the power to cast
spells without anyone noticing.

Khadgar slowly nodded, steeling himself for the response.

Medivh chuckled loudly, “When?”

 “On the…on the voyage from Lordaeron to Kul Tiras,” said Khadgar, unsure if what he said would
amuse or irritate his potential mentor. “We were becalmed for two days and…”

“Curiosity got the better of you,” finished Medivh again. He smiled, and it was a clean white smile
beneath the graying beard. “I probably would have opened it the moment I got out of sight of Dalaran’s
Violet Citadel.”

Khadgar took a deep breath and said, “I considered that, but I believed they had divination spells in
operation, at least at that range.”

 “And you wanted to be far from any spell or message recalling you for opening the letter. And you
patched it back together well enough to fool a cursory examination, sure that I would likely break the seal
straightaway and not notice your tampering.” Medivh allowed himself a chuckle, but drew his face into a
tight, focused knot. “How did I do that?” he asked.

Khadgar blinked. “Do what, sir?”

 “Know what was in the letter?” said Medivh, the sides of his mouth tugging down. “The letter I just
burned says that I will find the young man Khadgar most impressive in his deduction and intelligence.
Impress me.”
 Khadgar looked at Medivh, and the jovial smile of a few seconds before had evaporated. The smiling
face was now that of some primitive stone god, judgmental and unforgiving. The eyes that had been
tinged with mirth earlier now seemed to be barely concealing some hidden fury. The brows knitted
together like the rising thunderhead of a storm.

Khadgar stammered for a moment, then said, “You read my mind.”

“Possible,” said Medivh. “But incorrect. You’re a stew of nerves right now, and that gets in the way of
mind reading. One wrong.”

 “You’ve gotten this sort of letter before,” said Khadgar. “From the Kirin Tor. You know what kind of
letters are written.”

 “Also possible,” said the master mage. “As Ihave received such letters and theydo tend to be
overweening in their self-congratulatory tone. But you know the exact wording as well as I do. A good
try, and the most obvious, but also incorrect. Two wrong.”

 Khadgar’s mouth formed into a tight line. His mind raised and his heart thundered in his chest.
“Sympathy,” he said at last.

Medivh’s eyes remained unreadable, and his voice level. “Explain.”

Khadgar took a deep breath. “One of the magical laws. When someone handles an item, they leave a
part of their own magical aura or vibration attached to the item. As auras vary with individuals, it is
possible to connect to one by affecting the other. In this way a lock of hair may be used in a love charm,
or a coin may be tracked back to its original owner.”

Medivh’s eyes narrowed slightly, and he dragged a finger across his bearded chin. “Continue.”

Khadgar stopped for a moment, feeling the weight of Medivh’s eyes pressing in on him. That was what
he knew from lectures. He was halfway there. But how did Medivh use it to figure out….

 “The more someone uses an item, the stronger the resonance,” said Khadgar quickly. “So therefore an
item that experiences a lot of handling or attention will have a stronger sympathy.” The words were
coming together tighter and more rapidly now. “So a document which someone had written has more
aura to it than a blank piece of parchment, and the person is concentrating on what they are writing,
so…” Khadgar let his thoughts catch up for a moment. “You were mind reading, but not my mind—the
mind of the scribe who wrote the letter at the time he was writing it—you picked up his thoughts
reinforcing the words.”

 “Without having to physically open the document,” said Medivh, and the light danced within his eyes
again. “So how would this trick be useful to a scholar?”

Khadgar blinked for a moment, and looked away from the master mage, seeking to avoid his piercing
glance. “You could read books without having to read books.”

“Very valuable for a researcher,” said Medivh. “You belong to a community of scholars. Why don’t you
do that?”

“Because…because…” Khadgar thought of old Korrigan, who could find anything in the library, even
the smallest marginal notation. “I think we do, but for older members of the conclave.”

Medivh nodded. “And that is because…”

Khadgar thought for a moment, then shook his head.

 “Who would write if all the knowledge could be sucked out with a mental twist and a burst of magic?”
suggested Medivh. He smiled, and Khadgar realized he had been holding his breath. “You’re not bad.
Not bad at all. You know your counterspells?”

“To the fifth roster,” said Khadgar.

“Can you power a mystic bolt?” asked Medivh, quickly.

 “One or two, but it’s draining,” answered the younger man, suddenly feeling that the conversation had
taken a serious turn once more.

“And your primary elementals?”

“Strongest in flame, but I know them all.”

 “Nature magic?” asked Medivh. “Ripening, culling, harvesting? Can you take a seed and pull the youth
from it until it becomes a flower?”

“No, sir. I was trained in a city.”

“Can you make a homunculus?”

“Doctrine frowns on it, but I understand the principles involved,” said Khadgar, “If you’re curious…”

Medivh’s eyes lit up for a moment, and he said, “You sailed here from Lordaeron? What type of boat?”

Khadgar felt thrown for a moment by the sudden change of discussion. “Yes. Um…A Tirassian
wind-runner, theGracious Breeze,” he replied.

“Out of Kul Tiras,” concluded Medivh. “Human crew?”

“Yes.”

 “You spoke with the crew at all?” Again, Khadgar felt himself sliding once more from conversation to
interrogation.

“A little,” said Khadgar. “I think I amused them with my accent.”

“The crews of the Kul Tiras ships are easily amused,” said Medivh. “Any nonhumans in the crew?”

 “No, sir,” said Khadgar. “The Tirassians told stories of fish men. They called them Murlocs. Are they
real?”

“They are,” said the Magus. “What other races have you encountered? Other than variations of
humans.”
“Some gnomes were at Dalaran once,” said Khadgar. “And I’ve met dwarven artificers at the Violet
Citadel. I know dragons from the legends; I saw the dragon’s skull in one of the academies once.”

“What about trolls, or goblins?” said Medivh.

“Trolls,” said Khadgar. “Four known varieties of trolls. There may be a fifth.”

“That would be the bushwah Alonda teaches,” muttered Medivh, but motioned for Khadgar to continue.

 “Trolls are savage, larger than humans. Very tall and wiry, with elongated features. Um…” He thought
for a moment. “Tribal organization. Almost completely removed from civilized lands, almost extinct in
Lordaeron.”

“Goblins?”

 “Much smaller, more the size of dwarves. Just as inventive, but in a destructive fashion. Fearless. I have
read that as a race they are insane.”

“Only the smart ones,” said Medivh. “You know about demons?”

 “Of course, sir,” said Khadgar quickly. “I mean from the legends, sir. And I know the proper
abjurations and protections. All mages of Dalaran are taught so from our first day of training.”

“But you’ve never summoned one,” said Medivh. “Or been present when someone else did so.”

Khadgar blinked, wondering if this was a trick question. “No sir. I wouldn’t even think of it.”

“I do not doubt that you wouldn’t,” said the Magus, and there was the faintest edge in his voice. “Think
of it, that is. Do you know what a Guardian is?”

“A Guardian?” Khadgar suddenly felt the conversation take yet another left-hand turn. “A watchman? A
guard? Perhaps another race? Is it a type of monster? Perhaps a protector against monsters?”

 Medivh smiled, now, and shook his head. “Don’t worry. You’re notsupposed to know. It’s part of the
trick.” Then he looked up and said, “So. What do you know aboutme?”

Khadgar shot a glance toward Moroes the Castellan, and suddenly realized that the servant has
vanished, fading back into the shadows. The young man stammered for a moment. “The mages of the
Kirin Tor hold you in high regard,” he managed at last, diplomatically.

“Obviously,” said Medivh brusquely.

“You are a powerful independent mage, supposedly an advisor to King Llane of Azeroth.”

“We go back,” said Medivh, nodding at the youth.

“Beyond that…” Khadgar hesitated, wondering if the mage truly could read his mind.

“Yes?”
“Nothing specific to justify the high esteem…” said Khadgar.

“And fear,” put in Medivh.

“Andenvy,” finished Khadgar, feeling suddenly put upon by the questions, unsure about how to answer.
He quickly added, “Nothing specific to explain directly the highrespect the Kirin Tor holds you in.”

 “It’s supposed to be that way,” snapped Medivh peevishly, rubbing his hands over the brazier. “It’s
supposed to be that way.” Khadgar could not believe how the master mage could possibly be cold. He
himself felt nervous sweat drip down his back.

 At length, Medivh looked up, and the brewing storm was in his eyes again. “But what do you know
aboutme?”

“Nothing, sir,” said Khadgar.

 “Nothing?” Medivh’s voice raised and seemed to reverberate across the observatory. “Nothing? You
came all this way for nothing? You didn’t even bother to check? Perhaps I was just an excuse for your
masters to get you out of their hair, hoping you’d die en route. It wouldn’t be the first time someone tried
that.”

 “There wasn’t that much to check. You haven’t done that much,” responded Khadgar hotly, then took a
deep breath, realizing whom he was speaking with, and what he was saying. “I mean, not much that I
could find out, I mean…”

He expected an outburst from the older mage, but Medivh just chuckled. “And whatdid you find out?”
he asked.

Khadgar sighed, and said, “You come from a spellcaster heritage. Your father was a mage of Azeroth,
one Nielas Aran. You mother was Aegwynn, which may be a title as opposed to a name, one that goes
back at least eight hundred years. You grew up in Azeroth and know King Llane and Lord Lothar from
your childhood. Beyond that…” Khadgar let his voice trail off. “Nothing.”

Medivh looked into the brazier and nodded, “Well, thatis something. More than most people can find
out.”

“And your name means ‘Keeper of Secrets’,” Khadgar added. “In High Elven. I found that out as well.”

“All too true,” said Medivh, looking suddenly tired. He stared into the brazier for a while. “Aegwynn is
not a title,” he said at length. “It is merely my mother’s name.”

“Then there were several Aegwynns, probably a family name,” suggested Khadgar.

“Only one,” said Medivh, somberly.

Khadgar gave a nervous laugh. “But that would make her…”

“Over seven hundred fifty years old when I was born,” said Medivh, with a surprising snort. “She is
much older than that. I was a late child in her life. Which may be one reason the Kirin Tor is interested in
what I keep in my library. Which is why they sent you to find out.”
 “Sir,” said Khadgar, as sternly as he could manage. “To be honest, every mage save the highest in the
Kirin Tor wants me to find outsomething from you. I will accommodate them as best as I am able, but if
there is material that you want to keep restricted or hidden, I will fully understand….”

 “If I thought that, you would not have gotten through the forest to reach here,” said Medivh, suddenly
serious. “I need someone to sort and organize the library, for starters, then we work on the alchemical
laboratories. Yes, you’ll do nicely. You see, I know the meaning of your name just as you know mine.
Moroes!”

“Here, sir,” said the servant, suddenly manifesting out of the shadows. Despite himself, Khadgar jumped.

“Take the lad down to his quarters and make sure he eats something. It’s been a long day for him.”

“Of course, sir,” said Moroes.

“One question, Master,” said Khadgar, catching himself. “I mean, Lord Magus, sir.”

“Call me Medivh for now. I also answer to Keeper of Secrets and a few other names, not all of them
known.”

“What do you mean when you say you know my name?” asked Khadgar.

Medivh smiled, and the rooms suddenly seemed warm and cozy again. “You don’t speak dwarven,” he
observed.

Khadgar shook his head.

 “My name means ‘Keeper of Secrets’ in High Elven. Your name means ‘Trust’ in the old dwarven
language. So I will hold you to your name, young Khadgar. Young Trust.”



 Moroes saw the young man to his quarters halfway down the tower, explaining in that ghostly, definitive
voice as he shuffled down the stairs. Meals in Medivh’s Tower were simple fare—porridge and sausages
for breakfast, a cold lunch, and a large, hearty dinner, usually a stew or a roast served with vegetables.
Cook would retire after the evening meals, but there were always leftovers in the cold room. Medivh
kept hours that could be charitably described as “erratic” and Moroes and Cook had long since learned
how to accommodate him with a minimal amount of hardship on their parts.

 Moroes informed young Khadgar that, as an assistant instead of a servant, he would not have that
luxury. He would be expected to be available to help the master mage whenever he deemed necessary.

“I’d expect that, as an apprentice,” said Khadgar.

 Moroes turned in midstep (they were walking along an upper gallery overlooking what seemed to be a
reception hall or ballroom). “Not an apprentice yet, Lad,” wheezed Moroes. “Not by half.”

“But Medivh said…”

 “You could sort out the library,” said Moroes. “Assistant work, not apprentice’s. Others have been
assistants. None became apprentices.”
Khadgar’s brow furrowed, and he felt the warmth of a blush on his face. He had not expected there to
be a levelbefore apprentice in the mage’s hierarchy. “How long before…”

“Couldn’t say, really,” gasped the servant. “None have ever made it that far.”

 Khadgar thought of two questions at once, hesitated, then asked, “How many other ‘assistants’ have
there been?”

 Moroes looked out over the gallery railing, and his eyes grew unfocused. Khadgar wondered if the
servant was thinking or had been derailed by the question. The gallery below was sparsely furnished with
a heavy central table and chairs. It was surprisingly uncluttered, and Khadgar surmised that Medivh did
not hold many banquets.

“Dozens,” said Moroes at last. “At least. Most of them from Azeroth. An elfling. No, two elflings.
You’re the first from the Kirin Tor.”

 “Dozens,” repeated Khadgar, his heart sinking as he wondered how many times Medivh had welcomed
a young would-be mage into his service.

He asked the other question. “How long did they last?”

 Moroes snorted this time, and said, “Days. Sometimes hours. One elf didn’t even make it up the tower
stairs.” He tapped the blinders at the side of his wizened head. “Theysee things, you know.”

Khadgar thought of the figure at the main gate and just nodded.

At last they arrived at Khadgar’s quarters, in a side passage not far from the banquet hall. “Tidy yourself
up,” said Moroes, handing Khadgar the lantern. “The jakes is at the end of the hall. There’s a pot
beneath the bed. Come down to the kitchen. Cook will have something warm for you.”

 Khadgar’s room was a narrow wedge of the tower, more suitable to the contemplations of a cloistered
monk than a mage. A narrow bed along one wall, and an equally narrow desk along the other with a bare
shelf above. A standing closet for clothes. Khadgar tossed his rucksack into the closet without opening it,
and walked over to the thin window.

The window was a slim slice of leaded glass, mounted vertically on a pivot in the center. Khadgar
pushed on one half and it slowly pushed open, the solidifying oil in the bottom mount oozing as the
window rotated.

 The view was from still high up the tower’s side, and the rounded hills that surrounded the tower were
gray and bare in the light of the twin moons. From this height it was obvious to Khadgar that the hills had
once been a crater, worn and weathered by the passage of the years. Had some mountain been pulled
from this spot, like a rotted tooth? Or maybe the ring of hills had not risen at all, but rather the rest of the
surrounding mountains had risen faster, leaving only this place of power rooted in its spot.

 Khadgar wondered if Medivh’s mother was here when the land rose, or sank, or was struck by a piece
of the sky. Eight hundred years was long even by the standards of a wizard. After two hundred years,
most of the old object lessons taught, most human mages were deathly thin and frail. To be seven
hundred fifty years old and bear a child! Khadgar shook his head, and wondered if Medivh was having
him on.
 Khadgar shed his traveling cloak and visited the facilities at the hall’s end. They were spartan, but
included a pitcher of cold water and a washbasin and a good, untarnished mirror. Khadgar thought of
using a minor spell to heat the water, then decided merely to tough it out.

 The water was bracing, and Khadgar felt better as he changed into less-dusty togs—a comfortable shirt
that reached nearly to his knees and a set of sturdy pants. His working gear. He pulled a narrow eating
knife from his sack and, after a moment’s thought, slid it into the inside sleeve of one boot.

 He stepped back out into the hallway, and realized that he had no clear idea where the kitchen was.
There had been no cooking shed out by the stables, so whatever arrangements were likely within the
tower. Probably on or near the ground level, with a pump from the well. With a clear path to the banquet
hall, whether or not the hall was commonly used.

 Khadgar found the gallery above the banquet hall easily enough, but had to search to find the staircase,
narrow and twisting in on itself, leading to it. From the banquet hall itself he had a choice of exits.
Khadgar chose the most likely one and ended up in dead-end hallway with empty rooms on all sides,
similar to his own. A second choice brought a similar result.

The third led the young man into the heart of a battle.

 He did not expect it. One moment he was striding down a set of low flagstone steps, wondering if he
needed a map or a bell or a hunting horn to navigate the tower. The next moment the roof above him
opened up into a brilliant sky the color of fresh blood, and he was surrounded by men in armor, armed
for battle.

 Khadgar stepped back, but the hallway had vanished behind him, only leaving an uneven, barren
landscape unlike any he was familiar with. The men were shouting and pointing, but their voices, despite
the fact that they were right next to Khadgar, were indistinct and muddied, like they were talking to him
from underwater.

 A dream? thought Khadgar. Perhaps he had laid down for a moment and fallen asleep, and all this was
some night terror brought on by his own concerns. But no, he could almost feel the heat of the dying,
corpulent sun on his flesh, and the breeze and shouting men moved around him.

 It was as if he had become unstuck from the rest of the world, occupied his own small island, with only
the most tenuous of connections to the reality around him. As if he had become a ghost.

 Indeed, the soldiers ignored him as if he were a spirit. Khadgar reached out to grab one on the shoulder,
and to his own relief his hand did not pass through the battered shoulder plate. There was resistance, but
only of the most amorphous sort—he could feel the solidity of the armor, and if he concentrated, feel the
rough ridges of the dimpled metal.

 These men had fought, Khadgar realized, both hard and recently. Only one man in three was without
some form of rude bandage, bloodstained badges of war sticking out from beneath dirty armor and
damaged helms. Their weapons were notched as well, and spattered with dried crimson. He had fallen
into a battlefield.

 Khadgar examined their position. They were atop a small hillock, a mere fold in the undulating plains that
seemed to surround them. What vegetation existed had been chopped down and formed into crude
battlements, now guarded by grim-faced men. This was no safe redoubt, no castle or fort. They had
chosen this spot to fight only because there was no other available to them.

 The soldiers parted as their apparent leader, a great, white-bearded man with broad shoulders, pushed
his way through. His armor was a battered as any, but consisted of a breastplate bolted over a crimson
set of scholar’s robes, of the type that would not have been out of place in the halls of the Kirin Tor. The
hem, sleeves, and vest of these crimson robes were inscribed with runes of power—some of which
Khadgar recognized, but others which seemed alien to him. The leader’s snowy beard reached almost to
his waist, obscuring the armor beneath, and he wore a red skullcap with a single golden gem on the
brow. He held a gem-tipped staff in one hand, and a dark red sword in the other.

 The leader was bellowing at the soldiers, in a voice that sounded to Khadgar like the raging sea itself.
The warriors seemed to know what he was saying, though, for they formed themselves up neatly along
the barricades, others filling gaps along the line.

The snow-bearded commander brushed past Khadgar, and despite himself the youth stumbled back,
out of the way. The commander should not have noticed him, no more than any of the blood-spattered
warriors had.

Yet the commander did. His voice dropped for a moment, he stammered, his foot landed badly on the
uneven soil of the rocky hilltop and he almost stumbled. Yet instead he turned and regarded Khadgar.

 Yes, he looked at Khadgar, and it was clear to the would-be apprentice that the ancient mage-warrior
saw him and saw him clearly. The commander’s eyes looked deeply into Khadgar’s own, and for a
moment Khadgar felt as he had under Medivh’s own withering glare earlier. Yet, if anything, this was
more intense. Khadgar looked into the eyes of the commander.

 And what he saw there made him gasp. Despite himself, he turned away, breaking the locked gaze with
the mage-warrior.

 When Khadgar looked up again, the commander was nodding at him. It was a brief, almost dismissive
nod, and the old man’s mouth was a tight frown. Then the snow-bearded leader was off again, bellowing
at the warriors, entreating them to defend themselves.

 Khadgar wanted to go after him, to chase him down and find out how he could see him when others did
not, and what he could tell him, but there was a cry around him, a muddy cry of tired men called into duty
one last time. Swords and spears were raised to a sky the shade of curdled blood, and arms pointed
toward the nearby ridges, where flooding had stripped out patterns of purple against the rust-colored
soil.

 Khadgar looked where the men were pointing, and a wave of green and black topped the nearest ridge.
Khadgar thought it was some river, or an arcane and colorful mudflow, but he realized that the wave was
an advancing army. Black was the color of their armor, and green was the color of their flesh.

 They were nightmare creatures, mockeries of human form. Their jade-fleshed faces were dominated by
heavy underslung jaws lined with fanged teeth, their noses flat and snuffling like a dog’s, and their eyes
small, bloody, and filled with hate. Their ebon weapons and ornate armor shone in the eternally dying sun
of this world, and as they topped the rise they let out a bellow that rocked the ground beneath them.

 The soldiers around him let out a cry of their own, and as the green creatures closed the distance
between the hill they let out volley after volley of red-fletched arrows. The front line of the monstrous
creatures stumbled and fell, and were immediately trampled by those who came behind. Another volley
and another rank of the inhuman monsters toppled, yet their failing was subsumed by the advancing tide
of the mass that followed.

 To Khadgar’s right there were flashes as lightning danced along the surface of the earth, and the
monstrosities screamed as the flesh was boiled from their bones. Khadgar thought of the warrior-mage
commander, but also realized that these bolts only thinned the charging hordes by the merest fraction.

 And then the green-fleshed monstrosities were on top of them, the wave of ebon and jade smashing
against the rude palisade. The felled timbers were no more than twigs in the path of this storm, and
Khadgar could feel the line buckle. One of the soldiers nearest him toppled, impaled by a great dark
spear. In the warrior’s place there was a nightmare of green flesh and black armor, howling as it swept
down upon him.

Despite himself, Khadgar backed two steps, then turned to run.

And almost slammed into Moroes, who was standing in the archway.

“You,” wheezed Moroes calmly, “were late. Might have gotten lost.”

Khadgar wheeled again in place, and saw that behind him was not a world of crimson skies and green
monstrosities, but an abandoned sitting room, its fireplace empty and its chairs covered with drop cloths.
The air smelled of dust only recently disturbed.

“I was…” gasped Khadgar. “I saw…I was…”

“Misplaced?” suggested Moroes.

Khadgar gulped, looked about, then nodded mutely.

“Late supper is ready,” groaned Moroes. “Don’t get misplaced, again, now.”

And the dark-clad servant turned and glided quietly out of the room.

 Khadgar took one last look at the dead-end passage he had stumbled into. There were no mystic
archways or magical doorways. The vision (if vision it was) had ended with a suddenness only to be
equaled by its beginning.

There were no soldiers. No creatures with green flesh. No army about to collapse. There was only a
memory that scared Khadgar to his core. It was real. It had felt real. It had felt true.

 It was not the monsters or the bloodshed that had frightened him. It was the mage-warrior, the
snow-haired commander that seemed to be able to see him. That seemed to have looked into the heart
of him, and found him wanting.

 And worst of all, the white-bearded figure in armor and robes had Khadgar’s eyes. The face was aged,
the hair snow-white, the manner powerful, yet the commander had the same eyes that Khadgar had seen
in the untarnished mirror just moments (lifetimes?) before.

Khadgar left the sitting room, and wondered if it would not be too late to get a set of blinders.
 Three
 Settling In
 We’ll start you off slow,” said the elder wizard from across the table. “Take stock of the library. Figure
out how you are going to organize it.”

 Khadgar nodded over the porridge and sausages. The bulk of the breakfast conversation was about
Dalaran in general. What was popular in Dalaran and what were the fashions in Lordaeron. What they
were arguing about in the halls of the Kirin Tor. Khadgar mentioned that the current philosophical
question when he left was whether when you created a flame by magic, you called it into being or
summoned it from some parallel existence.

Medivh huffed over his breakfast. “Fools. They wouldn’t know an alternate dimension if it came up and
bit them on the….So what do you think?”

 “I think…” And Khadgar, suddenly realizing he was once again on the spot. “I think that it may be
something else entirely.”

 “Excellent,” said Medivh, smiling. “When given a choice between two, choose the third. Of course you
meant to say that when you create fire, all you are doing is concentrating the inherent nature of fire
contained in the surrounding area into one location, calling it into being?”

“Oh yes,” said Khadgar, then adding, “had I thought about it. For a while. Like a few years.”

 “Good,” said Medivh, dabbing at his beard with a napkin. “You’ve a quick mind and an honest
appraisal of yourself. Let’s see how you do with the library. Moroes will show you the way.”

 The library occupied two levels, and was situated about a third of the way up the tower itself. The
staircase along this part of the tower hugged the outside edge of the citadel, leaving a large chamber two
floors high. A wrought iron platform created an upper gallery on the second level. The room’s narrow
windows were covered with interwoven rods of iron, reducing what natural light the room had to little
more than that of a hooded torch. On the great oak tables of the first level, crystalline globes covered
with a thick patina of dust glowed with a blue-gray luster.

 The room itself was a disaster area. Books were scattered opened to random pages, scrolls were
unspooled over chairs, and a thin layer of dusty foolscap covered everything like the leaves on the forest
floor. The more ancient tomes, still chained to the bookshelves, had been unshelved, and hung from their
links like prisoners in some dungeon cell.

Khadgar surveyed the damage and let out a deep sigh. “Start me off slow,” he said.

 “I could have your gear packed in a hour,” said Moroes from the hallway. The servant would not enter
the library proper.

 Khadgar picked up a piece of parchment at his feet. One side was a demand from the Kirin Tor for the
master mage to respond to their most recent missive. The other side was marked with a dark crimson
smear that Khadgar assumed at first was blood but realized was nothing more than the melted wax seal.
 “No,” said Khadgar, patting his small pouch of scribe tools. “It’s just more of a challenge than I first
anticipated.”

“Heard that before,” said Moroes.

Khadgar turned to ask about his comment, but the servant was already gone from the doorway.

 With the care of a burglar, Khadgar picked his way through the debris. It was as if a battle had erupted
in the library. Spines were broken, covers were half-torn, pages were folded over upon themselves,
signatures had been pulled from the bindings entirely. And this was for those books that were still mostly
whole. More portfolios had been pulled from their covers, and the dust on the tables covered a layer of
papers and correspondences. Some of these were open, but some were noticeably still unread, their
knowledge contained beneath their wax seals.

 “The Magus does not need an assistant,” muttered Khadgar, clearing a space at the end of one table and
pulling out a chair. “He needs a housekeeper.” He shot a glance at the doorway to make sure that the
castellan was well and truly gone.

 Khadgar sat down and the chair rocked severely. He stood up again, and saw that the uneven legs had
shifted off a thick tome with a metallic cover. The front cover was ornate, and the page edges clad in
silver.

 Khadgar opened the text, and as he did so he felt something shift within the book, like a slider moving
down a metal rod or a drop of mercury moving through a glass pipe. Something metallic unwound within
the spine of the tome.

The book began to tick.

Quickly Khadgar closed the cover, and the book silenced itself with a sharp whirr and a snap, its
mechanism resetting. The young man delicately set the volume back on the table.

That was when he noticed the scorch marks on the chair he was using, and the floor beneath it.

“I can see why you go through so many assistants,” said Khadgar, slowly wandering through the room.

 The situation did not improve. Books were hanging open over the arms of chairs and metal railings. The
correspondence grew deeper as he moved farther into the room. Something had made a nest in one
corner of the bookshelf, and as Khadgar pulled it from the shelf, a small shrew’s skull toppled out,
crumbling when it struck the floor. The upper level was little more than storage, books not even reaching
the shelves, just piled in higher stacks, foothills leading to mountains leading to unattainable peaks.

 And there was one bare spot, but this one looked like someone had started a fire in a desperate attempt
to reduce the amount of paper present. Khadgar examined the area and shook his head—something else
burned here as well, for there were bits of fabric, probably from a scholar’s robe.

 Khadgar shook his head and went back to where he had left his scribe’s tools. He spilled out a thin
wooden pen with a handful of metal nibs, a stone for sharpening and shaping the nibs, a knife with a
flexible blade for scraping parchment, a block of octopus ink, a small dish in which to melt the ink, a
collection of thin, flat keys, a magnifying lens, and what looked at first glance like a metallic cricket.

He picked up the cricket, turned it on its back, and using a specially-fashioned pen nib, wound it up. A
gift from Guzbah upon Khadgar completing his first training as a scribe, it had proved invaluable in the
youth’s perambulations among the halls of the Kirin Tor. Within was contained a simple but effective spell
that warned when a trap was in the offing.

 As soon as he had wound it one revolution, the metallic cricket let out a high-pitched squeal. Khadgar,
surprised, almost dropped the detecting insect. Then he realized that the device was merely warning
about the intensity of the potential danger.

Khadgar looked at the piled volumes around him, and muttered a low curse. He retreated to the
doorway, and finished winding the cricket. Then he brought the first book he had picked up, the ticking
one, over to the doorway.

 The cricket warbled slightly. Khadgar set the trapped book to one side of the doorway. He picked up
another volume and brought it over. The cricket was silent.

 Khadgar held his breath, hoped that the cricket was enchanted to handle all forms of traps, magical and
otherwise, and opened the book. It was a treatise written in a soft feminine hand on the politics of the
elves from three hundred years back.

Khadgar set the handwritten volume to the other side of the doorway, and went back for another book.



“I know you,” said Medivh, the next morning, over sausage and porridge.

“Khadgar, sir,” said the youth.

“The new assistant,” said the older mage. “Of course. Forgive, but the memory is not everything it once
was. Too much going on, I’m afraid.”

“Anything you need aid with, sir?” asked Khadgar.

 The elder man seemed to think about it for a moment, then said, “The library, Young Trust. How are
things in the library?”

“Good,” said Khadgar. “Very good. I’m busy sorting the books and papers.”

“Ah, by subject? Author?” asked the master mage.

Fatal and non-fatal,thought Khadgar. “I’m thinking by subject. Many are anonymous.”

“Hmmmfph,” said Medivh. “Never trust anything that a man will not set his reputation and name upon.
Carry on, then. Tell me, what is opinion of the Kirin Tor mages about King Llane? Do they ever mention
him?”

 The work proceeded with glacial slowness, but Medivh did not seem to be aware of the time involved.
Indeed, he seemed to start each morning with being mildly and pleasantly surprised that Khadgar was still
with them, and after a short summary of the progress the conversation would switch into a new direction.

“Speaking of libraries,” he would say. “What is the Kirin Tor’s librarian, Korrigan, up to?”
“How do people in Lordaeron feel about elves? Have any ever been seen there, in living memory?”

“Are there any legends of bull-headed men in the halls of the Violet Citadel?”

And one morning, about week into Khadgar’s stay, Medivh was not present at all.

“Gone,” said Moroes simply when asked.

“Gone where?” asked Khadgar.

The old castellan shrugged, and Khadgar could almost hear the bones clatter within his form. “He’s not
one to say.”

“What’s he doing?” pressed Khadgar.

“Not one to say.”

“When will he be back?”

“Not one to say.”

“He would leave me alone in his tower?” asked Khadgar. “Unsupervised, with all his mystic texts?”

“Could come stand guard over you,” volunteered Moroes. “If that’s what you want.”

Khadgar shook his head, but said, “Moroes?”

“Ayep, young sir?”

“These visions…” started the younger man.

“Blinders?” suggested the servant.

Khadgar shook his head again. “Do they show the future or the past?”

“Both, when I’ve noticed, but I usually don’t,” said Moroes. “Notice, that is.”

“And the ones of the future, do they come true?” said the young man.

 Moroes let out what Khadgar could only assume was a deep sigh, a bone-rattling exhalation. “In my
experience, yes, young sir. In one vision Cook saw me break a piece of crystal, so she hid them away.
Months passed, and finally the Master asked for that piece of crystal. She removed it from its hiding
place, and within two minutes I had broken it. Completely unintentionally.” He sighed again. “She got her
rose quartz lenses the next day. Will there be anything else?”

Khadgar said no, but was troubled as he climbed the staircase to the library level. He had gone as far as
he had dared so far in his organization, and Medivh’s sudden disappearance left him high and dry,
without further direction.

 The young would-be apprentice entered the library. On one side of the room were those volumes (and
remains of volumes) that the cricket had determined were “safe,” while the other half of the room was
filled with the (generally more complete) volumes that were noted as being trapped.

 The great tables were covered with loose pages and unopened correspondence, laid out in two
semiregular heaps. The shelves were entirely bare, the chains hanging empty of their prisoners.

Khadgar could sort through the papers, but better to restock the shelves with the books. But most of the
volumes were untitled, or if titled, their covers so barely worn, scuffed, and torn as to be illegible. The
only way to determine contents would be to open the books.

Which would set off the trapped ones. Khadgar looked at the scorched mark on the floor and shook his
head.

Then he started looking, first among the trapped volumes, then among the untrapped ones, until he found
what he was looking for. A book marked with the symbol of the key.

It was locked, a thick metal band holding it closed, secured by a lock. Nowhere in his searches had
Khadgar come across a real key, though that did not surprise him, given the organization of the room.
The binding was strong, and the cover itself was a metal plate bound in red leather.

 Khadgar pulled the flat pieces of keys from his pouch, but they were all insufficient for the large lock.
Finally, using the tip of his scraping knife, Khadgar managed to thread the sliver of metal through the
lock, and it gave a satisfying “click” as he drove it home.

Khadgar looked at the cricket he kept on the table, and it was still silent.

Holding his breath, the young mage opened the heavy volume. The sour smell of decayed paper rose to
his nostrils.

“Of Trapes and Lockes,” he said aloud, wrapping his mouth around the archaic script and
over-vowelled words. “Beeing a Treateese on the Nature of Securing Devicees.”

 Khadgar pulled up a chair (slightly lower as he had sawed off the three long legs to balance it) and began
to read.



 Medivh was gone a full two weeks, and by that time, Khadgar had claimed the library as his own. Each
morning he rose for breakfast, gave Moroes a perfunctory update as to his progress (which the castellan,
as well as Cook never gave any indication of curiosity about), then buried himself away within the vault.
Lunch and supper were brought to him, and he often worked into the night by the soft bluish light from
the glowing balls.

 He adjusted to the nature of the tower as well. There were often images that hung at the corner of his
eye, just a twinkling of a figure in a tattered cloak that would evaporate when he turned to look at it. A
half-finished word that drifted on the air. A sudden coldness as if a door or window had been left open,
or a sudden change of pressure, as if a hidden entrance had suddenly appeared. Sometimes the tower
groaned in the wind, the ancient stones shifting on each other after centuries of construction.

 Slowly, he learned the nature, if not the exact contents, of the books that were within the library, foiling
the traps that were placed around the most valuable tomes. His research served him well in the last case.
He soon became as expert at foiling spell mechanisms and weighted traps as he had been with locked
doors and hidden secrets in Dalaran. The trick for most of them was to convince the locking mechanism
(whether magical or mechanical in nature) that the lock had not been foiled when in reality it had been.
Determining what set the particular trap off, whether it was weight, or a shifting bit of metal or even
exposure to the sun or fresh air, was half the battle to defeating it.

There were books that were beyond him, whose locks foiled even his modified picks and dexterous
knife. Those went to the highest level, toward the back, and Khadgar resolved to find out what was
within them, either on his own or by threading the knowledge out of Medivh.

 He doubted the latter, and wondered if the master mage had used the library as anything else than a
dumping ground for inherited texts and old letters. Most mages of the Kirin Tor had at least some
semblance of order to their archives, with their most valuable tomes hidden away. But Medivh had
everything in a hodgepodge, as if he didn’t really need it.

Except as a test,thought Khadgar. A test to keep would-be apprentices at bay.

 Now the books were on the shelves, the most valuable (and unreadable) ones secured with chains on
the upper level, while the more common military histories, almanacs, and diaries were on the lower floor.
Here were the scrolls as well, ranging from mundane listing of items bought and sold in Stormwind to
recordings of epic poems. The last were particularly interesting since a few of them were about
Aegwynn, Medivh’s claimed mother.

 If she lived over eight hundred years, she must have been a powerful mage indeed,thought Khadgar.
More information about her would likely be in the protected books in the back. So far these tomes had
resisted every common entreaty and physical attempt to sidestep their locks and traps, and the detecting
cricket practically mewled in horror whenever he attempted to unlock them.

 Still, there was more than enough to do, with categorizing the loose pieces, reassembling those volumes
which age had almost destroyed, and sorting (or at least reading) most of the correspondence. Some of
the later was in elven script, and even more of it, from a variety of sources, was in some sort of cipher.
The latter type came with a variety of seals upon it, from both Azeroth, Khaz Modan, and Lordaeron, as
well as places that Khadgar could not locate in the atlas. A large group communicated in cipher with each
other, and with Medivh himself.

 There were several ancient grimoires on codes, most of them dealing with letter replacement and cant.
Nothing compared to the code used in these ciphers. Perhaps they used a combination of methods to
create their own.

As a result, Khadgar had the grimoires on codes, along with primers in elven and dwarven languages,
open on the table the evening that Medivh suddenly returned to the tower.

 Khadgar didn’t hear him as much as felt his sudden presence, the way the air changes as a storm front
bears across the farmland. The young mage turned in his chair and there was Medivh, his broad
shoulders filling the doorway, his robes billowing behind him of their own volition.

“Sir, I…” started Khadgar, smiling and half-rising from his chair. Then he saw that the master mage’s
hair was in disarray, and his lambent green eyes were wide and angry.

“Thief!” shouted Medivh, pointing at Khadgar. “Interloper!” The elder mage pointed at the younger and
began to intone a string of alien syllables, words not crafted for the human throat.
 Despite himself, Khadgar raised a hand and wove a symbol of protection in the air in front of him, but he
might as well have been making a rude hand gesture for all the effect it had on Medivh’s spell. A wall of
solidified air slammed into the younger man, bowling over both him and the chair he sat in. The grimoires
and primers went skating along the surface of the table like boats caught in a sudden squall, and the notes
danced away, spinning.

 Surprised, Khadgar was driven back, slammed into one of the bookshelves behind him. The shelf itself
rocked from the force of the blow, and the youth was afraid it would topple, spoiling his hard work. The
bookcase held its position, though the pressure on Khadgar’s chest from the force of the attack
intensified.

“Who are you?” thundered Medivh. “What are you doing here?”

 The young mage struggled against the weight on his chest and managed to speak, “Khadgar,” he gasped.
“Assistant. Cleaning library. Your orders.” Part of his mind wondered if this was why Moroes spoke in
such a shorthand fashion.

 Medivh blinked at Khadgar’s words, and straightened like a man who had just been woken from a deep
sleep. He twisted his hand slightly, and at once the wave of solidified air evaporated. Khadgar dropped
to his knees, gasping for air.

Medivh crossed to him and helped him to his feet. “I am sorry, lad,” he began. “I had forgotten you
were still here. I assumed you were a thief.”

“A thief that insisted on leaving a room neater than he found it,” said Khadgar. It hurt a little when he
breathed.

 “Yes,” said Medivh, looking around the room, and nodding, despite the disruption his own attack had
caused. “Yes. I don’t believe anyone else had ever gotten this far before.”

 “I’ve sorted by type,” said Khadgar, still bent over and grasping his knees. “Histories, including epic
poems, to your right. Natural sciences on your left. Legendary material in the center, with languages and
reference books. The more powerful material—alchemic notes, spell descriptions, and theory go on the
balcony, along with some books I could not identify that seem fairly powerful. You’re going to have to
look at those yourself.”

“Yes,” said Medivh, now ignoring the youth and scanning the room. “Excellent. An excellent job. Very
good.” He looked around, seeming like a man just getting his bearings again. “Very good indeed. You’ve
done well. Now come along.”

The master mage bolted for the door, pulled himself up short, then turned. “Are you coming?”

Khadgar felt as if he had been hit by another mystic bolt. “Coming? Where are we going?”

“To the top,” said Medivh curtly. “Come now or we’ll be too late. Time is of the essence!”

For an older man Medivh moved swiftly up the stairs, covering them two at a time at a brisk pace.

“What’s at the top?” gasped Khadgar, finally catching up at a landing near the top.

“Transport,” snapped Medivh, then hesitated for a moment. He turned in place and his shoulders
dropped. For a moment it looked like the fire had burned out of his eyes. “I must apologize. For back
there.”

“Sir?” said Khadgar, his mind now spinning with this new transformation.

“My memory is not what it once was, Young Trust,” said the Magus. “I should have remembered you
were in the tower. With everything, I assumed you must have been a…”

“Sir?” interrupted Khadgar. “Time is of the essence?”

 “Time,” said Medivh, then he nodded, and the intensity returned to his face. “Yes, it is. Come on, don’t
lollygag!” And with that the older man was up on his feet and taking the steps two at a time.

 Khadgar realized that the haunted tower and the disorganized library were not the only reason people
left Medivh’s employ, and hastened after him.

The aged castellan was waiting for them in the tower observatory.

“Moroes,” thundered Medivh as he arrived at the top of the tower. “The golden whistle, if you please.”

 “Ayep,” said the servant, producing a thin cylinder. Dwarven runes were carved along the cylinder’s
side, reflecting in the lamplight of the room. “Already took the liberty, sir. They’re here.”

 “They?” started Khadgar. There was the rustle of great wings overhead. Medivh headed for the
ramparts, and Khadgar looked up.

 Great birds descended from the sky, their wings luminescent in the moonlight. No, not birds, Khadgar
realized—gryphons. They had the bodies of great cats, but their heads and front claws were those of sea
eagles, and their wings were golden.

Medivh held out a bit and bridle. “Hitch yours up, and we’ll go.”

 Khadgar eyed the great beast. The nearest gryphon let out a shrieking cry and pawed the flagstones with
its clawed forelegs.

“I’ve never…” started the young man. “I don’t know…”

Medivh frowned. “Don’t they teach anything among the Kirin Tor? I don’t have time for this.” He raised
a finger and muttered a few words, touching Khadgar’s forehead.

 Khadgar stumbled back, shouting in surprise. The elder mage’s touch felt as if he were driving a hot iron
into his brain.

Medivh said, “Now youdo know. Set the bit and bridle, now.”

 Khadgar touched his forehead, and let out a surprised gasp. Hedid know now, how to properly harness
a gryphon, and to ride one as well, both with saddle and, in the dwarven style, without. He knew how to
bank, how to force a hover, and most of all, how to prepare for a sudden landing.

Khadgar harnessed his gryphon, aware that his head throbbed slightly, as if the knowledge now within
had to jostle that already within his skull to make room.
“Ready? Follow!” said Medivh, not asking for a response.

 The pair launched themselves into the air, the great beasts straining and beating the air to allow them to
rise. The great creatures could take armored dwarves aloft, but a human in robes approached their limits.

 Khadgar expertly banked his swooping gryphon and followed Medivh as the elder mage swooped
down over the dark treetops. The pain in his head spread from the point where Medivh had touched him,
and now his forehead felt heavy and his thoughts muzzy. Still, he concentrated and matched the master
mage’s motions exactly, as if he had been flying gryphons all his life.

 The younger mage tried to catch up with Medivh, to ask where they were going, and what their goal
was, but he could not overtake him. Even if he had, Khadgar realized, the rushing wind would drown out
all but the greatest shouts. So he followed as the mountains loomed above them, as they winged
eastward.

 How long they flew Khadgar could not say, He may have dozed fitfully on gryphon-back, but hands
held the reins firm, and the gryphon kept pace with its brother-creature. Only when Medivh suddenly
jinked his gryphon to the right did Khadgar shake himself out of his slumber (if slumber it was) and
followed the master mage as his course turned south. Khadgar’s headache, the likely product of the spell,
had almost completely dissipated, leaving only a ragged ache as a reminder.

They had cleared the mountain range and Khadgar now realized they were flying over open land.
Beneath them the moonlight was shattered and reflected in myriad pools. A large marsh or swamp,
Khadgar thought. It had to be early in the morning now, the horizon on their right just starting to lighten
with the eventual promise of day.

 Medivh dropped low and raised both hands over his head. Incanting from gryphon-back, Khadgar
realized, and though his mind assured him that he knew how to do this, steering the great beast with his
knees, he felt in his heart that he could never be comfortable in such a maneuver.

 The creatures dropped farther, and Medivh was suddenly bathed in a ball of light, both limning him
clearly and catching Khadgar’s gryphon as a trailing shadow. Beneath them, the young mage saw an
armed encampment on a low rise that jutted from the surrounding swamp. They passed low over the
camp, and beneath him Khadgar could hear shouts and the clatter of armor and weapons being hastily
grabbed. What was Medivh doing?

 They passed over the encampment, and Medivh pulled into a high, banking turn, Khadgar following him
move for move. They returned over the camp, and it was brighter now—the campfires that had
previously been banked were now fed fresh fuel, and blazed in the night. Khadgar saw it was a large
patrol, perhaps even a company. The commander’s tent was large and ornate, and Khadgar recognized
the banner of Azeroth flapping overhead.

 Allies, then, for Medivh was supposedly closely connected to both King Llane of Azeroth and Lothar,
the kingdom’s Knight Champion. Khadgar expected Medivh to land, but instead the mage kicked the
sides of his mount, pulling the gryphon’s head up. The beast’s great wings beat the dark air and they
climbed again, this time rocketing north. Khadgar had no choice but to follow, as Medivh’s light dimmed
and the master mage took the reins again.

 Over the marshlands again, and Khadgar saw a thin ribbon beneath, too straight for a river, too wide for
an irrigation ditch. A road, then, plowed through the swamp, connecting bits of dry land that rose out of
the fen.

 Then the land rose to another ridge, another dry spot, and another encampment. There were also flames
in this encampment, but they were not the bright, contained ones of the army’s forces. These were
scattered throughout the clearing, and as they neared, Khadgar realized they were wagons set alight, their
contents strewn out among the dark human forms that were tossed like children’s dolls on the sandy
ground of the campsite.

 As before, Medivh passed over the campsite, then wheeled high in the air, banking to make a return
pass. Khadgar followed, the young mage himself leaning over the side of his mount to get a better look. It
looked like a caravan that had been looted and set ablaze, but the goods themselves were scattered on
the ground. Wouldn’t bandits take the booty and the wagons? Were there any survivors?

 The answer to the last question came with a shout and a volley of arrows that arched up from the brush
surrounding the site.

 The lead gryphon let out a shriek as Medivh effortlessly pulled back on the reins, banking the creature
clear of the flight of arrows. Khadgar attempted the same maneuver, the warm, false, comforting memory
in his head telling him that this was the correct way to turn. But unlike Medivh, Khadgar was riding too
far forward on his mount, and he had insufficient pull on his reins.

 The gryphon banked, but not enough to avoid all the arrows. A barbed arrow pierced the feathers of the
right wing, and the great beast let out a bleating scream, jerking in flight and desperately attempting to
beat its wings to get above the arrows.

 Khadgar was off-balance, and was unable to compensate. In a heartbeat his hands slipped loose of the
reins, and his knees slipped up from the sides of the gryphon. No longer under tight control, the gryphon
bucked, throwing Khadgar entirely free of its back.

 Khadgar lashed out to grab the reins. The leather lines whipped at his fingertips and then were gone into
the night, along with his mount.

And Khadgar plummeted toward the armed darkness below.


 Four
 Battle and Aftermath
 The air rushed out of Khadgar’s lungs as he struck the ground. The earth was gritty beneath his fingers,
and he realized he must have landed on a low dune of sandy debris collected along one side of the ridge.

Uneasily the young mage rose to his feet. From the air the ridge looked like a forest fire. From the
ground it looked like an opening to hell itself.

 The wagons were almost completely consumed by fire now, their contents scattered and blazing along
the ridge. Bolts of cloth had been unwound in the dirt, barrels staved and leaking, and food despoiled
and mashed into the earth. Around him were bodies as well, human forms dressed in light armor. There
was an occasional gleam of a helmet or a sword. Those would be the caravan guards, who failed their
task.
 Khadgar shrugged a painful shoulder, but it felt bruised as opposed to broken. Even given the sand, he
should have landed harder. He shook his head, hard. Whatever ache was left from Medivh’s spell was
outweighed by greater aches elsewhere.

 There was movement among the wreckage, and Khadgar crouched. Voices barked back and forth in an
unfamiliar tongue, a language to Khadgar’s ears both guttural and blasphemous. They were searching for
him. They had seen him topple from his mount and now they were searching for him. As he watched,
stooped figures shambled through the wreckage, forming hunched silhouettes where they passed before
the flames.

Something tickled the back of Khadgar’s brain, but he could not place it. Instead he started to back out
of the clearing, hoping the darkness would keep him hidden from the creatures.

 Such was not to be. Behind him, a branch snapped or a booted foot found a chuckhole covered by
leaves, or leather armor was tangled briefly in some brush. In any event, Khadgar knew he was not
alone, and he turned at once to see…

A monstrosity from his vision. A mockery of humanity in green and black.

 It was not as large as the creature of his vision, nor as wide, but it was still a nightmare creature. Its
heavy jaw was dominated by fangs that jutted upward, its other features small and sinister. For the first
time Khadgar realized it had large, upright ears. It probably heard him before it saw him.

 Its armor was dark, but it was leather and not the metal of his dream. The creature bore a torch in one
hand that caught the deep features of its face, making it all the more monstrous. In its other hand the
creature carried a spear decorated with a string of small white objects. With a start Khadgar realized the
objects were human ears, trophies of the massacre around them.

 All this came to Khadgar in an instant, in the moment’s meeting of man and monster. The beast pointed
the grisly-decorated spear at the youth and let out a bellowing challenge.

 The challenge was cut short as the young mage muttered a word of power, raised a hand, and unleashed
a small bolt of power through the creature’s midsection. The beast slumped in on itself, its bellow cut
short.

 One part of his mind was stunned by what he had just done, the other knew that he had seen what these
creatures could do, in the vision in Karazhan.

 The creature had warned the other members of its unit, and now there were war-howls in return around
the encampment. Two, four, a dozen such travesties, all converging on his location. Worse yet, there
were other howls from the swamp itself.

 Khadgar knew he did not have the power to repulse all of them. Summoning the mystic bolt was enough
to weaken him. Another would put him in dire danger of fainting. Perhaps he should try to flee?

 But these monsters probably knew the dark fen that surrounded them better than he did. If he kept to
the sandy ridge, they would find him. If he fled into the swamp, not even Medivh would be able to locate
him.

Khadgar looked up into the sky, but there was no sign of either the Magus or the gryphons. Had
Medivh landed somewhere, and was sneaking up on the monsters? Or had he returned to the human
force to the south, to bring them here?

Or, thought Khadgar grimly, had Medivh’s quicksilver mood changed once again and he had forgotten
he had someone with him on this flight?

Khadgar looked quickly out into the darkness, then back toward the site of the ambush itself. There
were more shadows moving around the fire, and more howling.

 Khadgar picked up the grisly trophy-spear, and strode purposely toward the fire. He might not be able
to fire off more than a mystic bolt or two, but the monsters didn’t know that.

Perhaps they were as dumb as they looked. And as inexperienced with wizards as he was with them.

 He did surprise them, for what it was worth. The last thing they expected was their prey, the victim they
had unseated from its flying mount, suddenly to manifest at the edge of the campfire’s light, bearing the
trophy-spear of one of their guards.

Khadgar tossed the spear sideways on the fire, and it sent up a shower of sparks as it landed.

The young mage summoned a bit of flame, a small ball, and held it in his hand. He hoped that it limned
his features as seriously as the torch had lit the guard’s. It had better.

“Leave this place,” Khadgar bellowed, praying that his strained voice would not crack. “Leave this place
or die.”

 One of the larger brutes took two steps forward and Khadgar muttered a word of power. The mystic
energies congealed around his flaming hand and blasted the green nonhuman full in the face. The brute
had enough time to raise a clawed hand to its ruined features before it toppled.

“Flee,” shouted Khadgar, trying to pitch his voice as deeply as he could, “Flee or face the same fate.”
His stomach felt like ice, and he tried not to stare at the burning creature.

 A spear launched out of the darkness, and with the last of his energy Khadgar summoned a bit of air,
just enough to push it clearly aside. As he did he felt faint. That was the last he could do. He was well
and truly tapped out. It would be a good time for his bluff to work.

The surrounding creatures, about a dozen visible, took a step back, then another. One more shout,
Khadgar reckoned, and they would flee back into the swamp, and give him enough time to flee himself.
He had already decided he would flee south, toward the army encampment.

 Instead there was a high, cackling laugh that froze Khadgar’s blood. The ranks of the green warriors
parted and another figure shambled forward. It was thinner and more hunched than the others, and wore
a robe the color of curdled blood. The color of the sky of Khadgar’s vision. Its features were as green
and misshapened as the others, but this one has a gleam of feral intelligence in its eyes.

It held out its hand, palm upward, and took a dagger and pierced its palm with the tip. Reddish blood
pooled in the clawed palm.

 The robed beast spoke a word that Khadgar had never heard, a word that hurt the ears, and the blood
burst into flame.
 “Human wants to play?” said the robed monster, roughly matching the human language. “Wants to play
at spells? Nothgrin can play!”

“Leave now,” tried Khadgar. “Leave now or die!”

 But the young mage’s voice wavered now, and the robed mockery merely laughed. Khadgar scanned
the area around him, looking for the best place to run, wondering if he could grab one of the guard’s
swords laying on ground. He wondered if this Nothgrin was bluffing as much as Khadgar had been.

 Nothgrin took a step toward Khadgar, and two of the brutes to the spellcaster’s right suddenly
screamed and burst into flame. It happened with a suddenness that shocked everyone, including
Khadgar. Nothgrin wheeled toward the immolated creatures, to see two more join them, bursting into
flame like dry sticks. They screamed as well, their knees buckling, and they toppled to the ground.

 In the place where the creatures had been now stood Medivh. He seemed to glow of his own volition,
diminishing the main fire, the burning wagons, and the burning corpses on the ground, sucking their light
into himself. He seemed radiant and relaxed. He smiled at the collected creatures, and it was a savage,
brutal smile.

“My apprentice told you to leave,” said Medivh, “You should have followed his orders.”

 One of the beasts let out a bellow, and the rogue magus silenced it with a wave of his hand. Something
hard and invisible struck the beast square in the face, and there was a shattering crack as its head came
loose of its body and rolled backward, striking the ground only moments before the creature’s body
struck the sand.

 The rest of the creatures staggered backward a step, then fled entirely into the night. Only the leader, the
robed Nothgrin, held its ground, and its overwide jaw flapped open in surprise.

“Nothgrin knows you, human,” he hissed. “You are the one….”

 Anything else the creature said disappeared in a scream as Medivh waved a hand and the creature was
pulled off its feet by a burst of air and fire. It was swept upward, screaming, until at last its lungs
collapsed from the stress and remains of its burned body drifted down like black snowflakes.

 Khadgar looked at Medivh, and the wizard had a toothy, self-satisfied smile. The smile faded when he
looked at Khadgar’s ashen face.

“Are you all right, lad?” he asked.

“Fine,” said Khadgar, feeling the weight of his exhaustion sweeping over him. He tried to sit but ended
up just collapsing to his knees, his mind worn and empty.

Medivh was at his side in a moment, passing a palm over the lad’s forehead. Khadgar tried to move the
hand away, but found that he lacked the energy.

“Rest,” said Medivh. “Recover your strength. The worst is over.”

 Khadgar nodded, blinking. He looked at the bodies around the fire. Medivh could have slain him as
easily, in the library. What stayed his hand, then? Some recognition of Khadgar? Some bit of memory or
of humanity?

The young mage managed, “Those things.” His voice sounded slurred, “What were…”

“Orcs,” said the Magus. “Those were orcs. Now no more questions for the moment.”

To the east, the sky was lightening. To the south, there was the sound of bright horns and powerful
hooves.

“The cavalry at last,” said Medivh with a sigh. “Too loud and too late, but don’t tell them that. They can
pick up the stragglers. Now rest.”



 The patrol swept through the camp, half of them dismounting, the remainder pressing up along the road.
The horsemen began checking the bodies. A detail was assigned to bury the members of the caravan.
The few dead orcs that Medivh had not set on fire were gathered and put on the main fire, their bodies
charring as their flesh turned to ash.

 Khadgar didn’t remember Medivh leaving him, but he did return with the patrol’s commander. The
commander was a stocky, older man, his face weathered by combat and campaign. His beard was
already more salt than pepper, and his hairline had receded to the back of his head. He was a huge man,
made all the more imposing by his plate armor and greatcape. Over one shoulder Khadgar could see the
hilt of a huge sword, the crosspiece huge and jeweled.

“Khadgar, this is Lord Anduin Lothar,” said Medivh, “Lothar, this is my apprentice, Khadgar of the
Kirin Tor.”

 Khadgar’s mind spun and caught first on the name. Lord Lothar. The King’s Champion, boyhood
companion of both King Llane and Medivh. The blade on his back had to be the Great Royal Sword,
pledged to defend Azeroth, and…

Did Medivh just say Khadgar was hisapprentice?

Lothar dropped to one knee to bring himself level with the young man, and looked at him, smiling. “So
you finally got an apprentice. Had to go to the Violet Citadel to find one, eh, Med?”

“Find one of suitable merit, yes,” said Medivh.

 “And if it ties the local hedge wizards’ undies in a bundle, so much the better, eh? Oh, don’t look at me
like that, Medivh. What has this one done to impress you?”

“Oh, the usual,” said Medivh, showing his teeth in a feral grin in response. “Organized my library. Tamed
a gryphon on the first try. Took on these orcs single-handed, including a warlock.”

Lothar let out a low whistle, “He organizedyour library? Iam impressed.” A smile flashed beneath his
graying moustache.

“Lord Lothar,” managed Khadgar finally. “Your skill is known even in Dalaran.”

“You rest, lad,” said Lothar, putting a heavy gauntlet on the young mage’s shoulder. “We’ll get the rest
of those creatures.”

Khadgar shook his head. “You won’t. Not if you stay on the road.”

The King’s Champion blinked in surprise, and Khadgar was not sure if it was because of his
presumption or his words.

 “The lad’s right, I’m afraid,” said Medivh. “The orcs have taken to the swamp. They seem to know the
Black Morass better than we do, and that’s what makes them so effective here. We stay on the roads,
and they can run circles around us.”

Lothar rubbed the back of his head with his gauntlet. “Maybe we could borrow some of those gryphons
of yours to scout.”

 “The dwarves that trained them may have their opinions about loaning out their gryphons,” said Medivh.
“But you might want to talk to them, and to the gnomes as well. They have a few whirligigs and
sky-engines that might be more suitable for scouting.”

Lothar nodded, and rubbed his chin. “How did you know they were here?”

 “I encountered one of their advance scouts near my domain,” said Medivh, as calmly as if he was
discussing the weather. “I managed to squeeze out of him that there was a large party looking to raid
along the Morass Road. I had hoped to arrive in time to warn them.” He looked at the devastation
around them.

 The sunlight did little to help the appearance of the area. The smaller fires had burned out, and the air
smelled of burning orcflesh. A pallid cloud hung over the site of the ambush.

A young soldier, little more than Khadgar’s age, ran up to them. They had found a survivor, one that
was pretty badly chewed up, but alive. Could the Magus come at once?

“Stay with the lad,” said Medivh, “He’s still a little woozy from everything.” And with that the master
mage strode across the scorched and bloody ground, his long robes trailing him like a banner.

 Khadgar tried to rise and follow him, but the King’s Champion put his heavy gauntlet on his shoulder
and held him down. Khadgar struggled only for a moment, then returned to a seated position.

Lothar regarded Khadgar with a smile. “So the old coot finally took on an assistant.”

 “Apprentice,” said Khadgar weakly, though he felt the pride rising in his chest. The feeling brought a new
strength to his mind and limbs. “He’s had many assistants. They didn’t last. Or so I heard.”

“Uh-huh,” said Lothar. “I recommended a few of those assistants, and they came back with tales of a
haunted tower and a crazy, demanding mage. What do you think of him?”

 Khadgar blinked for moment. In the past twelve hours, Medivh had attacked him, shoved knowledge
into his head, dragged him across the country on gryphon-back, and let him face off a handful of orcs
before swooping in for the rescue. On the other hand, he had made Khadgar his apprentice. His student.

Khadgar coughed and said, “He is more than I expected.”
 Lothar smiled again and there was genuine warmth in the smile. “He is more than anyone expected.
That’s one of his good points.” Lothar thought for a moment and said, “That is a very politic and polite
response.”

Khadgar managed a weak smile. “Lordaeron is a very politic and polite land.”

 “So I’ve noticed in the King’s Council. ‘Dalaran ambassadors can say both yes and no at the same time,
and say nothing as well.’ No insult intended.”

“None taken, my lord,” said Khadgar.

Lothar looked at the lad. “How old are you, lad?”

Khadgar looked at the older man. “Seventeen. Why?”

Lothar shook his head and grunted, “That might make sense.”

“Make sense how?”

 “Med, I mean Lord Magus Medivh, was a young man, several years younger than yourself, when he fell
ill. As a result, he never dealt much with someone of your age.”

“Ill?” said Khadgar. “The Magus was ill?”

“Seriously,” said Lothar. “He fell into a deep sleep, a coma they called it. Llane and I kept him at
Northshire Abbey, and the holy brothers there fed him broth to keep him from wasting away. For years
he was like that, then, snap, he woke up, right as rain. Or almost.”

“Almost?” asked Khadgar.

 “Well, he missed a large piece of his teenage years, and a few additional decades as well. He fell asleep
a teenager and woke up a grown man. I always worry that it affected him.”

 Khadgar thought about the master mage’s mercurial temperament, his sudden mood swings, and the
childlike delight with which he approached battling the orcs. Were Medivh a younger man, would his
actions make more sense?

 “His coma,” said Lothar, and shook his head at the memory. “It was unnatural. Med calls it a ‘nap,’ like
it was perfectly reasonable. But we never found out why it happened. The Magus might have puzzled it
out, but he’s shown no interest in the matter, even when I’ve asked.”

“I am Medivh’s apprentice,” said Khadgar simply. “Why are you telling me this?”

Lothar sighed deeply and looked out over the battle-scarred ridge. Khadgar realized that the King’s
Champion was a basically honest individual, who would not last a day and a half in Dalaran. His emotions
were plain on his weathered, open face.

Lothar sucked on his teeth, and said, “To be honest, I worry about him. He’s all alone in his tower….”

“He has a castellan. And there’s Cook,” put in Khadgar.
“…with all of his magic,” continued Lothar. “He just seems alone. Tucked up there in the mountains. I
worry about him.”

 Khadgar nodded, and added to himself,and that is why you tried to get apprentices from Azeroth in
there. To spy on your friend. You worry about him, but you worry about his power as well. Aloud,
Khadgar said, “You worry if he’s all right.”

Lothar gave a shrug, revealing both how much he did worry and how much he was willing to pretend
otherwise.

“What can I do to help?” asked Khadgar. “Help him. Help you.”

“Keep an eye on him,” said Lothar. “If you’re an apprentice, he should spend more time with you. I
don’t want him to…”

“Fall into another coma?” suggested Khadgar.At a time when these orcs are suddenly everywhere. For
his part, Lothar rewarded him with another shrug.

Khadgar gave the best smile he could manage, “I would be honored to help you both, Lord Lothar.
Know that my loyalty must be to the master mage first, but if there is anything afriend would need to
know, I will pass it along.”

 Another heavy pat of the gauntlet. Khadgar marveled at how badly Lothar concealed his concerns.
Were all the natives of Azeroth this open and guileless? Even now, Khadgar could see there was
something else Lothar wanted to speak of.

“There’s something else,” said Lothar. Khadgar just nodded politely.

“Has the Lord Magus spoken of the Guardian to you?” he asked.

Khadgar thought of pretending to know more than he did, to draw out more from this older, honest man.
But as the thought passed through his head, he discarded it. Best to hold to the truth.

“I have heard the name from Medivh’s lips,” said Khadgar. “But I know nothing of the details.”

“Ah,” said Lothar. “Then let it be as if I said nothing to you.”

“I’m sure we will talk of it in due course,” added Khadgar.

“Undoubtedly,” said Lothar. “You seem like a trustworthy sort.”

“After all, I’ve only been his apprentice for a few days,” said Khadgar lazily.

Lothar’s eyebrows raised, “A few days? Exactly how long have you been Medivh’s apprentice?”

“Counting until dawn tomorrow?” said Khadgar, and allowed himself a smile. “That would be one.”

 Medivh chose that moment to return, looking more haggard than before. Lothar raised his eyebrows in a
hopeful question, but the Magus merely shook his head. Lothar frowned deeply, and after exchanging a
few pleasantries, left to oversee the rest of salvage and clean-up. The half of the patrol that had moved
ahead along the road had returned, but had found nothing.
“Are you up for travel?” asked Medivh.

 Khadgar pulled himself to his feet, and the sandy ridge in the middle of the Black Morass seemed like a
ship pitching on a rough sea.

 “Well enough,” he said. “I don’t know if I can handle a gryphon, though, even with…” he let his voice
trail off, but touched his forehead.

 “It’s just as well,” said Medivh. “Your mount got spooked by the arrows, and headed for the high
country. We’ll have to double up.” He raised the rune-carved whistle to his lips and let out a series of
short, sharp blasts. Far above, there was the shriek of a gryphon on the wing, circling high above them.

Khadgar looked up and said, “So, I’m your apprentice.”

“Yes,” said Medivh, his face a calm mask.

“I passed your tests,” said the youth.

“Yes,” said Medivh.

“I’m honored, sir,” said Khadgar.

“I’m glad you are,” said Medivh, and a ghost of a smile crossed his face. “Because now starts the hard
part.”


 Five
 Sands in an Hourglass
I’ve seen them before,” said Khadgar.

 It was seven days after the battle in the swamp. With their return to the tower (and a day of recovery on
Khadgar’s part), the young mage’s apprenticeship had begun in earnest. The first hour of the day, before
breakfast, Khadgar practiced his spells under Medivh’s tutelage. From breakfast until lunch and through
lunch until supper, Khadgar would assist the master mage with various tasks. These consisted of making
notes as Medivh read off numbers, running down to the library to recover this book or that, or merely
holding a collection of tools as the Magus worked.

Which was what he was doing at this particular moment, when he finally felt comfortable enough with the
older mage to tell him what he knew about the ambush.

 “Seen who before?” replied his mentor, peering through a great lens at his current experiment. On his
fingers the master mage wore small pointed thimbles ending in infinitely-thin needles. He was tuning
something that looked like a mechanical bumblebee, which flexed its heavy wings as his needles probed
it.

“The orcs,” said Khadgar. “I’ve seen the orcs we fought before.”
“You didn’t mention them when you first arrived,” said Medivh absentmindedly, his fingers dancing in
odd precision, lancing the needles into and out of the device. “I remember asking you about other races.
There was no mention. Where have you seen them?”

“In a vision. Soon after I arrived here,” Khadgar said.

“Ah. You had a vision. Well, many get them here, you know. Moroes probably told you. He’s a bit of a
blabbermouth, you know.”

“I’ve had one, maybe two. The one I am sure about was on a battlefield, and these creature, these orcs,
were there. Attacking us. I mean, attacking the humans I was with.”

“Hmmm,” said Medivh, the tip of his tongue appearing beneath his moustache as he moved the needles
delicately along the bumblebee’s copper thorax.

 “And I wasn’t here,” continued Khadgar. “Not in Azeroth, or Lordaeron. Wherever I was, the sky was
red as blood.”

 Medivh bristled as if struck by an electric shock. The intricate device beneath his tools flashed brightly as
the wrong parts were touched, then screamed, and then died.

 “Red skies?” he said, turning away form the workbench and looking sharply at Khadgar. Energy, intense
and uncaring, seemed to dance along the older man’s dark brows, and the Magus’s eyes were the green
of a storm-tossed sea.

 “Red. Like blood,” said Khadgar. The young man had thought he was becoming used to Medivh’s
sudden and mercurial moods, but this struck him with the force of a blow.

The older mage let out a hiss. “Tell me about it. The world, the orcs, the skies,” commanded Medivh, his
voice like stone. “Tell meeverything.”

 Khadgar recounted the vision of his first night there, mentioning everything he could remember. Medivh
interrupted constantly—what were the orcs wearing, what was the world like. What was in the sky, on
the horizon. Were there any banners among the orcs. Khadgar felt his thoughts were being dissected and
examined. Medivh pulled the information from Khadgar effortlessly. Khadgar told him everything.

 Everything except the strange, familiar eyes of the warrior-mage commander. He did not feel right
mentioning that, and Medivh’s questions seemed to concentrate more on the red-skied world and the
orcs than the human defenders. As he described the vision, the older mage seemed to calm down, but the
choppy sea still remained beneath his bushy brows. Khadgar saw no need to upset the Magus further.

 “Curious,” said Medivh, slowly and thoughtfully, after Khadgar had finished. The master mage leaned
back in his chair and tapped a needle-tipped finger to his lips. There was a silence that hung over the
room like a shroud. At last he said, “That is a new one. A very new one indeed.”

“Sir,” began Khadgar.

“Medivh,” reminded the master mage.

“Medivh, sir,” began Khadgar again. “Where do these visions come from? Are they hauntings of some
past or portents of the future?”
“Both,” said Medivh, leaning back in his chair. “And neither. Go fetch an ewer of wine from the kitchen.
My work is done for the day, I’m afraid, its nearly time for supper, and this may take some explaining.”

 When Khadgar returned, Medivh had started a fire in the hearth and was already settling into one of the
larger chairs. He held out a pair of mugs. Khadgar poured, the sweet smell of the red wine mixing with
the cedar smoke.

“You do drink?” asked Medivh as an afterthought.

“A bit,” said Khadgar. “It is customary to serve wine with dinner in the Violet Citadel.”

“Yes,” said Medivh. “You wouldn’t need to if you just got rid of the lead lining for your aqueduct. Now,
you were asking about visions.”

 “Yes, I saw what I described to you, and Moroes…” Khadgar hesitated for a moment, hoping not to
further blacken the castellan’s reputation for gossip, then decided to press on. “Moroes said that I was
not alone. That people saw things like that all the time.”

 “Moroes is right,” said Medivh, taking a long pull from the wine and smacking his lips. “A late harvest
vintage, not bad at all. That this tower is a place of power should not surprise you. Mages gravitate
toward such places. Such places are often where the universe wears thin, allowing it to double back on
itself, or perhaps even allowing entry to the Twisting Nether and to other worlds entirely.”

“Was that what I saw, then,” interrupted Khadgar, “another world?”

 Medivh held up a hand to hush the younger man. “I am just saying that there are places of power, which
for one reason or another, become the seats of great power. One such location is here, in the Redridge
Mountains. Once long ago something powerful exploded here, carving out the valley and weakening the
reality around it.”

“And that’s why you sought it out,” prompted Khadgar.

Medivh shook his head, but instead said, “That’s one theory.”

“You said there was an explosion long ago that created this place, and it made it a place of magical
power. You then came….”

 “Yes,” said Medivh. “That’s all true, if you look at it in a linear fashion. But what happens if the
explosion occurred because I would eventually come here and the place needed to be ready for me?”

Khadgar’s face knitted. “But things don’t happen like that.”

 “In the normal world, no, they do not,” said Medivh. “But magic is the art of circumventing the normal.
That’s why the philosophical debates in the halls of the Kirin Tor are so much buffle and blow. They seek
to place rationality upon the world, and regulate its motions. The stars march in order across the sky, the
seasons fall one after the other with lockstepped regularity, and men and women live and die. If that does
not happen, it’s magic, the first warping of the universe, a few floorboards that are bent out of shape,
waiting for industrious hands to pry them up.”

“But for that to happen to the area to be prepared for you…” started Khadgar.
“The world would have to be very different than it seems,” answered Medivh, “which it truly is, after all.
How does time work?”

Khadgar was not thrown as much by Medivh’s apparent change of topic. “Time?”

“We use it, trust it, measure by it, but whatis it?” Medivh was smiling over the top of his cup.

“Time is a regular progression of instants. Like sands through an hourglass,” said Khadgar.

 “Excellent analogy,” said Medivh. “One I was going to use myself, and then compare the hourglass with
the mechanical clock. You see the difference between the two?”

Khadgar shook his head slowly as Medivh sipped on his wine.

 Eventually, the mage spoke, “No, you’re not daft, boy. It’s a hard concept to wrap your brain around.
The clock is a mechanical simulation of time, each beat controlled by a turning of the gears. You can look
at a clock and know that everything advances by one tic of the wheel, one slip of the gears. You know
what is coming next, because the original clockmaker built it that way.”

“All right,” said Khadgar. “Time is a clock.”

 “Ah, but time is also an hourglass,” said the older Mage, reaching for one planted on the mantel and
flipping it over. Khadgar looked at the timepiece, and tried to remember if it was there before he had
brought up the wine, or even before Medivh reached for it.

 “The hourglass also measures time, true?” said Medivh. “Yet here you never know which particle of
sand will move from the upper half to the lower half at any instant. Were you to number the sands, the
order would be slightly different each time. But the end result is always the same—all the sand has moved
from the top to the bottom. What order it happens in does not matter.” The old man’s eyes brightened
for a moment. “So?” he asked.

 “So,” said Khadgar. “You’re saying that it may not matter if you set up your tower here because an
explosion created this valley and warped the nature of reality around it, or that the explosion occurred
because you would eventually be come here, and the nature of the universe needed to give you the tools
you wanted to stay.”

“Close enough,” said Medivh.

 “So what these visions are, then, are bits of sand?” said Khadgar. Medivh frowned slightly but the youth
pressed on. “If the tower is an hourglass, and not a clock, then there are bits of sand, of time itself, that
are moving though it at any time. These are unstuck, or overlap each other, so that we can see them, but
not clearly. Some of it is parts of the past. Some of it is parts of the future. Could some of it be of other
worlds as well?”

 Medivh now was thinking deeply himself. “It is possible. Full marks. Well thought out. The big thing to
remember is that these visions are just that. Visions. They waft in and out. Were the tower a clock, they
would move regularly and be easily explained. But since the tower is an hourglass, then they don’t. They
move at their own speed, and defy us to explain their chaotic nature.” Medivh leaned back in his chair.
“Which I, for one, am quite comfortable with. I could never really favor an orderly, well-planned
universe.”
 Khadgar added, “But have you ever sought out a particular vision? Wouldn’t there be a way to discover
a certain future, and then make sure it happened?”

 Medivh’s mood darkened. “Or make sure it never comes to pass,” he said. “No, there are some things
that even a master mage respects and stays clear of. This is one of them.”

“But…”

“No buts,” said Medivh, rising and setting his empty mug on the mantelpiece. “Now that you’ve had a
bit of wine—let’s see how that affects your magical control. Levitate my mug.”

Khadgar furrowed his brow, and realized that his voice had been slightly slurred. “But we’ve been
drinking.”

 “Exactly,” said the master mage. “You will never know what sands the universe will throw in your face.
You can either plan to be eternally vigilant and ready, eschewing life as we know it, or be willing to enjoy
life and pay the price. Now try to levitate the mug.”

Khadgar didn’t realize until this moment how much he had drunk, and tried to clear the mushiness from
his mind and lift the heavy ceramic mug from the mantel.

A few moments later, he was heading for the kitchen, looking for a broom and a pan.



 In the evenings, Khadgar’s time was his own, to practice and research, as Medivh dealt with other
matters. Khadgar wondered what the other matters were, but assumed they included correspondence,
for twice a week a dwarf on gryphon-back arrived at the topmost tower with a satchel, and left with a
larger satchel.

Medivh gave the young man free license in the library to research as he saw fit, including the myriad
questions that his former masters in the Violet Citadel had requested.

 “My only demand,” said Medivh with a smile, “is that you show me what you write before you send it to
them.” Khadgar must have shown his embarrassment, because Medivh added, “Not because I fear you’ll
keep something from me, Young Trust, but because I’d hate for them to know something that I had
forgotten about.”

So Khadgar plunged into the books. For Guzbah he found an ancient, well-read scroll with an epic
poem, its numbered stanzas precisely detailing a battle between Medivh’s mother Aegwynn and an
unnamed demon. For Lady Delth he made a listing of the moldering elven tomes in the library. And for
Alonda he plunged through those bestiaries he could read, but could not push the number of troll species
past four.

Khadgar also spent his free time with his lock picks and his personal opening spells. He still sought to
master those books that foiled his earlier attempts to crack them open. These tomes had strong magics
on them, and he could spend an evening among his divinations before getting even the first hint what style
of spell protected its contents.

Lastly, there was the subject of the Guardian. Medivh had mentioned it, and Lord Lothar had assumed
that the Magus had confided in it to the young man, and backed off quickly when the King’s Champion
had found it not to be the case.

 The Guardian, it seemed, was a phantom, no more or no less real than the time-skewed visions that
seemed to move through the tower. There was a mention in passing of a Guardian (always capitalized) in
this elven tome, a reference in the Azeroth’s royal histories of a Guardian attending this wedding or that
funeral, or being in the vanguard of some attack. Always present, but never identified. Was this Guardian
a position, or, like Medivh’s supposed near-immortal mother, a single being?

 There were other phantoms that orbited this Guardian as well. An order of some sort, an
organization—was the Guardian a holy knight? And the word “Tirisfal” was written in the margins of one
grimoire, and then erased, such that only Khadgar’s skill at examination told him what was once written
there by the carving the pen had done in the parchment. A name of a particular Guardian, or the
organization, or something else entirely?

It was the evening that Khadgar found this word, four days after the incident with the mug, that the
young man fell into a new vision. Or rather, a vision snuck up on him and surrounded him, swallowing him
whole.

 It was the smell that came to him first, a soft vegetable warmth among the moldering texts, a fragrance
that slowly rose into the room. The heat rose in the room, not uncomfortably, but as a warm damp
blanket. The walls darkened and turned green, and vines trellised up the sides of the bookcases, passing
through and replacing the volumes that were there and spreading wide, flat leaves. Large pale
moonflowers and crimson star orchids sprouted among the stacked scrolls.

 Khadgar took a deep breath, but more from anticipation than fear. This was not the world of harsh land
and orc armies that he had seen before. This was something different. This was a jungle, but it was a
jungle on this world. The thought comforted him.

 And the table disappeared, and the book, and Khadgar was left sitting at a campfire with three other
young men. They seemed to be about his age, and were on some sort of expedition. Sleeping rolls had
been laid out, and the stewpot, empty and already cleaned, was drying by the fire. All three were dressed
for riding, but their clothes were well tailored and of good quality.

 The three men were laughing and joking, though, as before, Khadgar could not make out the exact
words. The blond one in the middle was in the midst of telling a story, and from his hand motions, one
involving a nicely apportioned young woman.

 The one on his right laughed and slapped a knee as the blond one continued his tale. This one ran his
fingers through his hair, and Khadgar noticed that his dark hair was already receding. That was when he
realized he was looking at Lord Lothar. The eyes and nose were his, and the smile just the same, but the
flesh was not yet weathered and his beard was not graying. But it was him.

 Khadgar looked at the third man, and knew at once it had to be Medivh. This one was dressed in a
dark green hunter’s garb, his hood pulled back to reveal a young, mirthful face. His eyes were burnished
jade in the light of the campfire, and he favored the blond one’s story with an embarrassed smile.

 The blond one in the center made a point and motioned to the young Medivh, who shrugged, clearly
embarrassed. The blond one’s story apparently involved the future Magus as well.

The blond one had to be Llane, now King Llane of Azeroth. Yes, the early stories of the three of them
had found their way even into the Violet Citadel’s archives. The three of them often wandered through
the borders of the kingdom, exploring and putting down all manner of raiders and monsters.

 Llane concluded his story and Lothar nearly fell back over the log he was sitting upon, roaring with
laughter. Medivh suppressed a laugh himself into his curled hand, looking like he was merely clearing his
throat.

 Lothar’s laughter subsided, and Medivh said something, opening his palms upward to make a point.
Lothardid pitch backward now, and Llane himself put his face in his hand, his body heaving in
amusement. Apparently whatever Medivh said topped Llane’s story entirely.

 Then something moved in the surrounding jungle. The three stopped their revelry at once—they must
have heard it. Khadgar, the ghost at this gathering, more felt it instead; something malevolent lurking at
the borders of the campfire.

 Lothar rose slowly and reached for a great, wide-bladed sword laying in its sheath at his feet. Llane
stood up, reaching behind his log to pull out a double-headed ax, and motioned for Lothar to go one
way, Medivh to go the other. Medivh had risen as well by this point, and though his hands were empty
he, even at this age, was the most powerful of the three.

 Llane with his broadax loped forward to one side of the campsite. He might have imagined himself as
stealthy, but Khadgar saw him move with firm-footed deliberation. He wanted whatever was there at the
edge to reveal itself.

The thing obliged, bursting from its place of concealment. It was half again as tall as any of the young
men, and for one instant he thought it was some gigantic orc.

 Then he recognized it from bestiaries that Alonda had him peruse. It was a troll, one of the jungle breed,
its blue-hued skin pale in the moonlight, its long gray hair lacquered upright into a crest that ran from its
forehead back to the nape of the neck. Like the orcs, it had fangs jutting from its lower jaw, but these
were rounded, peglike tusks, thicker than the sharp teeth of the orcs. Its ears and nose were elongated,
parodies of human flesh. It was dressed in skins, and chains made of human finger bones danced on its
bare chest.

 The troll let out a battle roar, baring its teeth and its chest in rage, and feinted with its spear. Llane swung
at the outthrust weapon, but his blow went wide. Lothar charged from one side, and Medivh came up as
well, eldritch energy dancing off his fingertips.

 The troll sidestepped Lothar’s greatsword, and danced back another step when Llane shredded the air
with his huge ax. Each step covered more than a yard, and the two warriors pressed the troll each time it
retreated. It used the spear more as a shield than a weapon, holding the haft two-handed and knocking
aside the blow.

Khadgar realized the creature wasn’t fighting to kill the humans, not yet. It was trying to pull them into
position.

In the vision, the young Medivh must have realized the same thing, because he shouted something to the
others.

 But by this time it was too late, for two other trolls chose that moment to leap from their hiding places on
either side of the combat.
Llane, for all his planning, was the one caught by surprise, and the spear skewered his right arm. The
broadax’s blade bit into the earth as the future king screamed a curse.

 The other two concentrated on Lothar, and now the warrior was being forced back, using his broad
blade with consummate dexterity, foiling first one thrust, then the other. Still, the jungle trolls showed their
strategy—they were driving the two warriors apart, separating Llane from Lothar, forcing Medivh to
choose.

Medivh chose Llane. From his phantom viewpoint Khadgar guessed it was because Llane was already
wounded. Medivh charged, his hands flaming….

And caught the butt end of the troll’s spear in the face, as the troll slammed the heavy haft against
Medivh’s jaw, then turned and with one elegant motion pummeled the wounded Llane. Medivh went
down, and so did Llane, and the ax, spun out of the future sovereign’s hand.

 The troll hesitated a moment, trying to determine who to kill first. It chose Medivh, sprawled on the
ground at its feet, the closer of the two. The troll raised the spear and the obsidian point glowed evil in
the moonlight.

 The young Medivh choked off a series of syllables. A small tornado of dust rose from the ground and
flung itself into the troll’s face, blinding it. The troll hesitated for a moment, and clawed at its dusty orbs
with one hand.

 The hesitation was all Medivh needed, for he lunged forward, not with a spell, but with a simple knife,
plunging it into the back of the troll’s thigh. The troll gave a scream in the night, stabbing blindly. The
spear dug into where Medivh had been, for the young mage had rolled to one side and was now rising,
his fingertips crackling.

 He muttered a word and lightning gathered in a ball between his fingers and lanced forward. The troll
jolted from the shock and hung for a moment, caught in a blue-limned seizure. The creature fell to its
knees, and even then was not done, for it tried to rise, its rheumy red eyes burning with hatred for the
wizard.

 The troll never got its chance, for a shadow rose behind it, and Llane’s recovered ax gleamed briefly in
the moonlight before coming down on the troll’s head, bisecting it at the neck. The creature sprawled
forward, and the two young men, as well as Khadgar, turned to the trolls battling with Lothar.

 The future champion was holding his own, but just barely, and had backed almost across the entire
campsite. The trolls had heard the death scream of their brother, and one continued to press his attack as
the other charged back to deal with the two humans. It let out an inarticulate bellow as it crossed the
campsite, its spear before it like a knight on horseback.

 Llane charged in return, but at the last moment veered to one side, dancing aside the spear’s point. The
troll took two more steps forward, which brought him up to the campfire itself, and where Medivh was
waiting.

Now the mage seemed to be full of energy and, limned by the coals before him, looked demonic in his
demeanor. He had his arms wide, and he was chanting something harsh and rhythmic.

And the fire itself leaped up, taking a brief animated form of a giant lion, and leaped on the attacking
troll. The jungle troll screamed as the coals, logs, and ash wrapped itself around him like a cloak, and
would not be shrugged off. The troll flung itself on the ground and rolled first one way and then the other,
trying to dampen the flame, but it did no good. Finally the troll stopped moving entirely, and the hungry
flames consumed it.

 For his part, Llane continued his charge and buried his ax in the side of the surviving troll. The beast let
out a howl, but its moment’s hesitation was all that Lothar needed. The champion batted away the
outthrust spear with a backhanded blow, then with a level, precise swing cut the troll’s head cleanly from
its shoulders. The head bounced into the brush, and was lost.

 Llane, though bleeding from his own wound, slapped Lothar on the back, apparently taunting him for
taking so long with his troll. Then Lothar put a hand to Llane’s chest to quiet him, and pointed at Medivh.

 The young mage was still standing over the fire, his hands held open, but fingers hooked like claws. His
eyes were glassy in the surviving firelight, and his jaw was tightly clenched. As the two men (and the
phantom Khadgar) ran over to him, the young man pitched backward.

By the time the pair reached Medivh, he was breathing heavily, and his pupils were wide in the
moonlight. Warriors and vision visitor leaned over him, as the young mage strained to push the words out
of his mouth.

“Watch out for me,” he said, looking at neither Llane nor Lothar, but at Khadgar. Then the young
Medivh’s eyes rolled up in his head and he lay very still.

 Lothar and Llane were trying to revive their friend, but Khadgar just stepped back. Had Medivh truly
seen him, as the other mage, the one with his eyes on the war-swept plains, had? And he had heard him,
clear words spoken almost to the depth of his soul.

 Khadgar turned and the vision dropped away as quickly as a magician’s curtain. He was back in the
library again, and he almost stumbled into Medivh himself.

“Young Trust,” said Medivh, the version much older than the one laying on the ground in the vanished
vision. “Are you all right? I called out, but you did not answer.”

“Sorry Med…sir,” said Khadgar, taking a deep breath. “It was a vision. I was lost in it, I’m afraid.”

 Medivh’s dark brows drew together. “Not more orcs and red skies?” he asked seriously, and Khadgar
saw a touch of the storm in those green eyes.

Khadgar shook his head and chose his words carefully. “Trolls. Blue trolls, and it was a jungle. I think it
was this world. The sky was the same.”

Medivh’s concern deflated and he just said, “Jungle trolls. I met some once, down south, in the
Strangle-thorn Vale….” The mage’s features softened as he himself seemed to become lost in a vision of
his own. Then he shook his head, “But no orcs this time, right? You are sure.”

“No, sir,” said Khadgar. He did not want to mention that it was that battle he was witnessing. Was it a
bad memory for Medivh? Was this the time when he slipped into the coma?

Looking at the older mage, Khadgar could see much of the young man from the vision. He was taller,
but slightly stooped from his years and researches, yet there was the young man wrapped within the older
form.

Medivh for his part said, “Do you have ‘Song of Aegwynn’?”

Khadgar shook himself out of his thoughts. “The song?”

 “Of my mother,” said Medivh. “It would be an old scroll. I swear I can’t find anything here since you’ve
cleaned!”

 “It is with the other epic poetry, sir,” said Khadgar.He should tell him about the vision, he thought. Was
this a random event, or was it brought on by his meeting of Lothar? Was finding out about things
triggering visions?

 Medivh crossed to the shelf, and running a finger along the scrolls, pulled the needed version, old, and
well worn. He unwound it partway, checked it against a scrap of paper in his pocket, then rewound and
replaced it.

“I have to go,” he said suddenly. “Tonight, I’m afraid.”

“Where are we going?” asked Khadgar.

“I go alone, this time,” said the elder mage, already striding toward the door. “I will leave instructions for
your studies with Moroes.”

“When will you return?” shouted Khadgar after his retreating form.

 “When I am back!” bellowed Medivh, taking the stairs up two at a time already. Khadgar imagined the
castellan already at the top of the tower, with his runic whistle and tame gryphon at the ready.

“Fine,” said Khadgar, looking at the books. “I’ll just sit here and figure out how to tame an hourglass.”


 Six
 Aegwynn and Sargeras
 Medivh was gone a week, all told, and it was a week well spent for Khadgar. He installed himself in the
library, and had Moroes bring his meals there. On more than one occasion he did not even reach his
quarters in the evening, rather spending the time sleeping on the great library tables themselves.
Ultimately, he was searching for visions.

 His own correspondence went unanswered as he plumbed the ancient tomes and grimoires on questions
about time, light, and magic. His early reports had drawn quick responses from the mages of the Violet
Citadel. Guzbah wanted a transcription of the epic poem of Aegwynn. Lady Delth declared that she
recognized none of the titles he sent her—could he send them again, this time with the first paragraph of
each, so she knew what they were? And Alonda was adamant that there had to be a fifth breed of troll,
and that Khadgar had obviously not found the proper bestiaries. The young mage was delighted to leave
their demands unanswered as he sought out a way of taming the visions.

The key to his incantation, it seemed, would be a simple spell of farseeing, a divination that granted sight
of distant objects and far-off locations. A book of priestly magic had described it as an incantation of
holy vision, yet it worked as well for Khadgar as it did for their clerics. While that priestly spell functioned
over space, perhaps with modification it could function over time. Khadgar reasoned that this would
normally be impossible given the flow of time in a determinant, clockwork universe.

 But it seemed that within the walls of Karazhan, at least, time was an hourglass, and identifying bits of
disjointed time was more likely. And once one hooked into one grain of time, it would be easier to move
that grain to another.

If others had attempted this within the walls of Medivh’s Tower, there was no clue within the library,
unless it was within the most heavily guarded or unreadable of the tomes located on the iron balcony.
Curiously, the notes in Medivh’s own hand were uninterested in the visions, which seemed to dominate
other notes from other visitors. Did Medivh keep that information in another location, or was he truly
more interested in matters beyond the walls of the citadel than the activities within it?

 Refitting a spell for a new activity was not as simple as changing an incantation here, altering a motion
there. It required a deep and precise understanding of how divination worked, of what it revealed and
how. When a hand-motion changes, or the type of incense used is deleted, the result is most likely
complete failure, where the energies are dissipated harmlessly. Occasionally the energies may go wild and
out of control, but usually the only result of a failed spell is a frustrated spellcaster.

 In his studies, Khadgar discovered that if a spell fails in a spectacular fashion, it indicates that the failed
spell is very close to the final intended spell. The magics are trying to close the gap, to make things
happen, though not always with the results intended by the caster. Of course, sometimes these failed
magic-users did not survive the experience.

 During the process, Khadgar was afraid that Medivh would return at any time, wafting back into the
library, looking for the well-read epic poem or some other bit of trivia. Would he tell his master what he
was trying? And if he did, would Medivh encourage him, or forbid him from trying to find out?

 After five days, Khadgar felt he had the spellmaking complete. The framework remained that of the
farseeing, but it was now empowered with a random factor to allow it to reach through and search out
the discontinuities that seemed to exist within the tower. These bits of misplaced time would be a little
brighter, a little hotter, or simply a little odder than the immediate surroundings, and as such attract the full
force of the spell itself.

 The spell, if it functioned, should in addition tune in the vision better. This would collect the sounds at the
other end and remove the distortion, concentrating them in the same fashion as an elderly person cupping
a hand to the ear to hear better. It would not work for sounds beyond the central location as well, but
should clarify what individuals were saying in addition to what the caster was seeing.

 The evening of the fifth day, Khadgar had completed his calculations, the neat rows and orders of power
and casting laid out in a simple script. Should something go horribly wrong, at least Medivh would figure
out what had happened.

 Medivh, of course, kept a fully equipped pantry of spell components, including a larder of aromatic and
thaumaturgic herbs, and a lapidarium of crushed semi-precious stones. Of these Khadgar chose amethyst
to lay out his magical circle, in the library itself, crisscrossing it with runes of powered rose quartz. He
reviewed the words of power (most of them known to the young mage before he left Dalaran) and
worked through the motions (almost all of them original). Dressed in conjuration robes (more for luck
than effect), he stepped within the casting circle.
 Khadgar let his mind settle and become calm. This was no quickly-cast battle spell, or some offhand
cantrip. Rather this was a deep and powerful spell, one that, if within the Violet Citadel, would set off the
warning abjurations of other mages and bring them flying to him.

He took a deep breath, and began to cast.

 Within his mind, the spell began to form, a warm, hot ball of energy. He could feel it congeal within him,
as rainbow ripples moved across the surface. This was the core of the spell, usually quickly dispatched to
alter the real world as its caster saw fit.

 Khadgar fitted the sphere with the attributes he desired, to seek out the bits of time that seemed to haunt
the tower, sort through them, and bring together a single vision, one that he could witness spread before
him. The ideas seemed to sink with the imaginary sphere in his mind, and in return the sphere seemed to
hum at a higher pitch, awaiting only release and direction.

“Bring me a vision,” said the young mage. “Bring me a vision of the young Medivh.”

 With the sound of an egg imploding the magic was gone from his mind, seeping into the real world to
carry out his bidding. There was a rush of air, and as Khadgar looked around, the library began to
transform, as it had before, the vision moving slowly into his space and time.

Only when it suddenly got colder did Khadgar realize he had called up the wrong vision.

It moved through the library suddenly, a cold draft as if someone had left a window open. The breeze
went from a draft to a chill to an arctic blast, and despite his own knowledge that it was merely illusion,
Khadgar shivered to his core.

 The walls of the library fell away as the vision took hold with an expanse of white. The chill wind curled
around the books and manuscripts and left a blanket of snow as it passed, thick and hard. Tables,
shelves, and chairs were obscured and then eliminated with the swirls of thick heavy flakes.

And Khadgar was on a hillside, his feet disappearing at his knees into a bank of snow, but leaving no
mark. He was a ghost within this vision.

 Still, his breath frosted and curled upward as he looked around him. To his right was a copse of trees,
dark evergreens loaded down by the passing snowstorm. Far to his left was a great white cliff. Khadgar
thought it some chalky substance, and then realized that it was ice, as if someone had taken a frozen river
and uprooted it. The ice river was as tall as some of the mountains on Dalaran, and small dark shapes
moved above it. Hawks or eagles, though they would have to be of immense size if they were truly near
the icy cliffs.

Ahead of him was a vale, and moving up the vale was an army.

 The army melted the snow as it passed, leaving a smudged mark of black behind it like a slug’s trail. The
members of the army were dressed in red, wearing great horned helms and long, high-backed black
cloaks. They were hunters, for they wore all manner of weapons.

At the head of the army, its leader bore a standard, and atop the standard rode a dripping, decapitated
head. Khadgar thought it some great green-scaled beast, but stopped himself when he realized it was a
dragon’s head.
He had seen a skull of such a creature in the Violet Citadel, but never thought that he would see one that
had recently been alive. How far back had his vision truly thrown him?

 The army of giant-things were bellowing what could have been a marching song, though it could just as
easily have been a string of curses or a challenging cry. The voices were muddled, as if they were at the
bottom of a great well, but at least Khadgar could hear them.

 As they grew closer, Khadgar realized what they were. Their ornate helmets were not helms, but rather
horns that jutted from their own flesh. Their cloaks were not garments but great batlike wings that jutted
from their backs. Their red-tinged armor was their own thick flesh, glowing from within and melting the
snow.

 They were demons, creatures from Guzbah’s lectures and Korrigan’s hidden pamphlets. Monstrous
beings that exceeded even the orcs in their blood-thirst and sadism. The great, broad-bladed swords
were clearly bathed in crimson, and now Khadgar could see that their bodies were spattered with gore
as well.

They were here, wherever and whenever here was, and they were hunting dragons.

 There was a soft, distorted sound behind him, no more than a footfall on a soft carpet. Khadgar turned,
and he realized that he was not alone on the hillock overlooking the demon hunting party.

She had come up from behind him unawares, and if she saw him, she paid him no mind. Just as the
demons seemed a blight incarnate on the land, so, too, did she radiate her own sense of power. This was
a brilliant power that seemed to fold and intensify as she glided along atop the surface of the snow itself.
She was real, but her white leather boots left only the faintest marks in the snow.

 She was tall and powerful and unafraid of the abomination in the valley below. Her garb was as white
and unspoiled as the snow around them, and she wore a vest made of small silver scales. A great white
hooded fur cape with a lining of green silk billowed behind her, held at her throat by a large green stone
which matched her eyes. She wore her blond hair simply, held in place by a silver diadem, and seemed
less affected by the cold than the ghostly Khadgar.

Yet it was her eyes that held his attention—green as summer forest, green as polished jade, green as the
ocean after a storm. Khadgar recognized those eyes, for he had felt the penetrating gaze of similar eyes,
but from her son.

 This was Aegwynn. Medivh’s mother, the powerful near-immortal mage that was so old as to become a
legend.

 Khadgar also realized where he must be, and this was Aegwynn’s battle against the demon hordes, a
legend saved only in fragments, in the cantos of an epic poem on the library shelf.

 With a pang Khadgar realized where his spell had gone wrong. Medivh had asked for that scroll before
leaving, the last time Khadgar had seen him. Had the spell misfired, passing through a vision of Medivh
himself most recently into the very legend that he was checking?

 Aegwynn frowned as she looked down on the demonic hunting party, the single line dividing her
eyebrows showing her displeasure. Her jade eyes flashed, and Khadgar could guess that a storm of
power was brewing within her.
 It did not take long for that anger to be released. She raised an arm, chanted a short, clipped phrase,
and lightning danced from her fingertips.

 This was no mere conjurer’s bolt, nor even the harshest strike of a summer thunderstorm. This was a
shard of elemental lightning, arcing through the cold air and finding its ground in the surprised demonic
armor. The air split down to its most basic elements as the bolt cleaved through it, and the air smelled
sharp and bitter in its passing, the air thundering in to replace the space the bolt had briefly filled. Despite
himself, despite knowing that he was phantom, despite knowing that this was a vision, despite all this and
the fact that the noise was muted by his ghostly state, Khadgar grimaced and recoiled at the flash and
metallic tolling of the mystic bolt.

 The bolt struck the standard bearer, the one bearing the severed head of the great green dragon. It
immolated the demon where he stood, and those around it were blasted from their feet, falling like hot
coals in the snow. Some did not rise again.

 But the majority of the hunting party were outside the spell’s effect, whether by accident or design. The
demons, each one larger than ten men, recoiled in shock, but that lasted only a moment. The largest of
them bellowed something in a language that sounded like broken metal bells, and half of the demons took
wing, charging Aegwynn’s (and Khadgar’s) position. The other half pulled out heavy bows of black oak
and iron arrows. As they fired the arrows, they ignited, and a rain of fire descended upon them.

 Aegwynn did not flinch, but merely raised a hand in a sweeping motion. The entire sky between her and
the fiery rain erupted in a wall of bluish flame, which swallowed the orange-red bolts as if they had simply
fallen into a river.

Yet the bolts were merely to provide cover for the attackers, who burst through the blue wall of fire as it
dissipated and dropped on Aegwynn from above. There had to be at least twenty of them, each a giant,
darkening the skies with their huge wings.

 Khadgar looked at Aegwynn and saw that she was smiling. It was a knowing, self-confident smile, and
one that the young mage had seen on Medivh’s face, when they had fought the orcs. She was more than
confident.

 Khadgar looked down the valley to where the archers had been. They had abandoned their useless
missiles but now were gathered together, chanting in a low, buzzing tone. The air warped around them,
and a hole appeared in reality, a dark malignancy against the pristine white. And from that hole dropped
more demons—creatures of every description, with the heads of animals, with flaming eyes, with wings of
bats and insects and great scavenging birds. These demons joined the choir and the rift opened farther,
sucking more and more of the spawn of the Twisting Nether into the cold northern air.

Aegwynn paid the chanters and reinforcements no mind, but rather coolly concentrated on those
dropping on her from above.

 She passed her hand, palm up. Half of those that flew were turned to glass, and all of them were
knocked from the sky. Those that had been turned to crystal shattered where they struck with discordant
chords. Those that were still living landed with a heavy thump, and rose again, their ichor-splattered
weapons drawn. There were ten left.

 Aegwynn placed her left fist against her upright right palm, and four of the survivors melted, their ruddy
flesh melting off the bones as they slumped into the snow banks. They screamed until their decaying
throats filled with their own desiccated flesh. There were six left.

 Aegwynn clutched at the air and three more demons exploded as their interiors turned into insects and
ripped them from the inside out. They didn’t even have time to scream as their forms were replaced by
swarms of gnats, bees, and wasps, which boiled out toward the forests. There were three left.

Aegwynn pulled her hands apart and a demon had its arms and legs ripped from its torso by invisible
hands. Two left. Aegwynn raised two fingers and a demon turned to sand, its dying curse lost on the chill
breeze.

One left. It was the largest, the leader, the bellower of orders. At close range Khadgar could see that its
bare chest was a pattern of scars, and one eye socket was empty. The other burned with hate.

It did not attack. Neither did Aegwynn. Instead they stopped, frozen for a moment, while the valley
beneath them filled with demons.

Finally the great behemoth of a demon snarled. His voice was clear but distant to Khadgar’s ears.

 “You are a fool, Guardian of Tirisfal,” it said, wrapping its lips around the uncomfortable human
language.

Aegwynn let out a laugh, as sharp and as thin as a glass dagger. “Am I, foulspawn? I came here to spoil
your dragon hunt. It seems that I have succeeded.”

“You are an overconfident fool,” slurred the demon. “While you have been fighting only a few, my
brothers in sorcery have brought in others. A legion of others. Every incubus and petty demon, every
nightmare and shadow-hound, every dark lord and captain of the Burning Legion. All have come here
while you have fought these few.”

“I know,” said Aegwynn, calmly.

“Youknow?” bellowed the demon with a throaty laugh. “You know that you are alone in the wilderness,
with every demon raised against you. Youknow?”

 “I know,” said Aegwynn, and there was smile in the voice. “I know you would bring as many of your
allies as possible. A Guardian would be too great a target for you to resist.”

“You know?”shouted the demon again. “And you came anyway, alone, to this forsaken place?”

“I know,” said Aegwynn. “But I never said I was alone.”

Aegwynn snapped her fingers and the sky suddenly darkened, as if a great flock of birds had been
disturbed, and blocked the sun.

Except they were not birds. They were dragons. More dragons than Khadgar even imagined existing.
They hovered in place on their great wings, waiting for the Guardian’s signal.

“Foulspawn of the Burning Legion,” said Aegwynn. “It is you that are the fool.”

 The demonic leader let out a cry and raised its blood-spattered sword. Aegwynn was too quick for it,
and raised a hand, three fingers outstretched. The foulspawn’s scar-ridden chest evaporated, leaving only
a cloud of bloody motes. His brawny arms fell away to each side, its abandoned legs folded and it
collapsed, and its head, registering nothing so much as a look of shocked surprise, fell into the melting
snow and was lost.

 That was the signal for the dragons, for as one they turned on the collected horde of summoned demons.
The great flying creatures swooped down from all sides, and flame sprung from their open maws. The
front rows of demons were immolated, reduced to no more than ash in an instant, while others struggled
to pull out their weapons, to ready their own spells, to flee the field.

In the center of the army, a chant went up, this one an intense pleading, and a passionate cry. These
were the most powerful of the demonic spellcasters, who concentrated their energies as those at the
borders fought off the dragons at deadly cost.

 The demons regrouped and retaliated, and dragons now began to fall from the sky, their bodies riddled
by iron arrows and flaming bolt, by sorcerous poisons and by maddening visions. Still, the circle around
the center of the demons shrank as more and more of the dragons took their revenge against the demons
for the hunt, and the cries in the center became more desperate and indistinct.

 Khadgar looked at Aegwynn, and she was standing stock-still in the snow, her fists clenched, her green
eyes blazing with power, her teeth locked in a hideous grin. She was chanting, too, something dark and
inhuman and beyond even Khadgar’s ability to recognize. She was fighting the spell the demons had
constructed, but she was pulling energy from it as well, bending mystic force contained within back on
itself, like layers of steel in a sword’s blade are folded back on themselves to make the blade stronger
and more potent.

The cries of the demons in the center reached a fever pitch, and now Aegwynn was shouting herself, a
nimbus of energy coalesced around her. Her hair was loose and flying now, and she raised both arms and
unleashed the last words of her conjuration.

 And there was a flash at the center of the demonic horde, at the center where the casters chanted and
screamed and prayed. It was a rip in the universe, this time a bright rip, as if a doorway into the sun itself
had been opened. The energy spiraled outward, and the demons did not even have time to scream as it
overtook them, burning them out and leaving the shadows of their afterimage as their only testament.

 All of the demons were caught, and a few of the dragons as well who strayed too close to the center of
the demonic horde. They were caught like moths in a flame and snuffed out just as surely.

 Aegwynn let out a ragged breath and smiled. It was the smile of the wolf, of the predator, of the victor.
Where the demonic horde had been there was now a pillar of smoke, rising to the heavens in a great
cloud.

 But as Khadgar watched, the cloud flattened and gathered in on itself, growing darker and more intense,
like the anvil of a thunderhead. Yet in redoubling itself, it grew stronger, and its heart grew blacker,
verging on shades of purple and ebony.

And from out of the darkened cloud Khadgar saw a god emerge.

 It was a titanic figure, larger than any giant of myth, greater than any dragon. Its skin looked like it was
cast in bronze, and it wore black armor made of molten obsidian. Its great beard and wild hair were
made of living flames, and huge horns jutted from above its dark brow. Its eyes were the color of the
Infinite Abyss. It strode out of the dark cloud, and the earth shook where its feet fell. It carried a huge
spear engraved with runes that dripped burning blood, and it had a long tail ending in a fireball.

 What dragons were left fled the field, heading for the dark forest and the distant cliffs. Khadgar could
not blame them. As much power as Medivh held within him, as much great power that his mother now
showed, it was like two small candles compared to the raw power of this lord of the demons.

“Sargeras,” hissed Aegwynn.

 “Guardian,” thundered the great demon, in a voice as deep as the ocean itself. In the distance, the ice
cliffs collapsed rather than echo this hellish voice.

The Guardian pulled herself up to her full height, brushed back a stray blond hair, and said, “I have
broken your toys. You are finished here. Flee while you still have your life.”

 Khadgar looked at the Guardian as if she had lost her mind. Even to his eyes she was exhausted from
her experience, almost as empty as Khadgar had been against the orcs. Surely this titanic demon could
see through the ruse. The epic poem spoke of Aegwynn’s victory. Was he about to witness her death,
instead?

 Sargeras did not laugh, but his voice rolled across the land, pressing down on Khadgar nonetheless.
“The time of Tirisfal is about to end,” said the demon. “This world will soon bow before the onslaught of
the Legion.”

“Not as long as there is a Guardian,” said Aegwynn. “Not as long as I live, or those who come after
me.” Her fingers curled slightly, and Khadgar could see that she was summoning power within herself,
gathering her wits, her will, and her energy into one great assault. Despite himself, Khadgar took a step
back, then another, then a third. If his elder self could see him in the vision, if young Medivh could see
him, could not these two great powers, mage and monster, see him as well?

Or was he too small to notice, perhaps?

“Surrender now,” said Sargeras. “I have use of your power.”

“No,” said Aegwynn, her hands in tight balls.

 “Then die, Guardian, and let your world die with you,” said the titanic demon, and raised his bleeding
rune-spear.

 Aegwynn raised both hands, and unleashed a shout, half-curse and half-prayer. A flaming rainbow of
colors unseen on this world erupted from her palms, snaking upward like a sentient strike of lightning. It
struck like a dagger thrust in the center of Sargeras’s chest.

 It seemed to Khadgar like a bow-shot fired against a boat, as small and as ineffective. Yet Sargeras
staggered under the blow, taking a half-step backward and dropping his huge spear. It struck the ground
like a meteorite hitting the earth, and the snow rippled beneath Khadgar’s feet. He fell to one knee, but
looked up at the demon lord.

 When Aegwynn’s spell had struck, there was a darkness spreading. No, not a darkness, but rather a
coolness, the heated bronze flesh of the titan-demon dying and being replaced with a cold, inert mass. It
radiated from the center of its chest like a wildfire, leaving consumed flesh behind it.
 Sargeras regarded the growing devastation with surprise, then alarm, then fear. He raised a hand to
touch it, and it spread to that limb as well, leaving an inert mass of rough, black metal behind. Now
Sargeras starting chanting himself, pulling together what energies he possessed to reverse the process, to
staunch the flow, to put out the consuming fire. His words grew hotter and more passionate, and his
unaffected skin flicked with renewed intensity. He was glowing like a sun, shouting curses as the dark
coolness reached where his heart should have been.

 And then there was another flash, this one as intense as the one that consumed the demon horde,
centered on Sargeras himself. Khadgar looked away, looked at Aegwynn, who watched as the fire and
darkness consumed her foe. The brightness of the light dimmed the day itself, and long shadows
stretched out behind the mage.

 And then it was over. Khadgar blinked as his eyes regained their sight. He turned back to the vale and
there was the titanic Sargeras, inert as a thing made of wrought iron, the power burned out of him.
Beneath his weight, the heated arctic ground started to give way, and slowly his dead form fell forward,
remaining whole as it mashed into the ground. The air around them was still.

 Aegwynn laughed. Khadgar looked at her, and she looked drained, both by exhaustion and by madness.
She rubbed her hands and chuckled and started to walk down toward the toppled titan. Khadgar noticed
that she no longer rested delicately atop the drifts, but now had to slog her way down the hill.

 As she left him, the library began to return. The snow began to sublimate in thick clouds of steam, and
the shadowy forms of the shelves, the upper gallery, and the chairs slowly made themselves visible.

Khadgar turned slightly, back toward where the table should have been, and everything was back to
normal. The library reasserted its reality with a firm suddenness.

 Khadgar let out a chill breath and rubbed his skin. Cool, but not cold. The spell had worked well
enough, in generalities if not particulars. It had called the vision, but not the desired one. The question
was what went wrong, and what was the best way to fix it.

 The young mage reached for his scribe’s pouch, pulling from it a blank sheet of parchment and tools. He
fitted a metal nub to the end of his stylus, melted some of the octopus ink in a bowl, and quickly began to
note everything that happened, how he cast the initial spell, to Aegwynn sinking deeper in the snow as
she walked away.

He was still working an hour later when there was a cadaverous cough at the doorway. Khadgar was so
wrapped up in thought that he did not notice until Moroes coughed a second time.

 Khadgar looked up, mildly irritated. There was something important he was about to write, but it was
eluding him. Something that was just at the corner of his mind’s eye.

“The Magus is back,” said Moroes. “Wants you up at the observatory level.”

 Khadgar looked at Moroes blankly for a moment, before the words gained purchase in his mind.
“Medivh’s back?” he managed at last.

 “That’s what I said,” groaned Moroes, each word given grudgingly. “You’re to fly to Stormwind with
him.”

“Stormwind? Me? Why?” managed the younger mage.
“You’re the apprentice, that’s why,” scowled Moroes. “Observatory, top level. I’ve summoned the
gryphons.”

 Khadgar looked at his work—line upon line of neat handwriting, delving into every detail. There was
something else that he was thinking about. Instead he said, “Yes. Yes. Let me gather my things up. Finish
this.”

“Take your time,” said the castellan. “It’s only the Magus that wants you to fly with him to Stormwind
Castle. Nothing important.” And Moroes faded back into the hallway. “Top level,” came his
disembodied voice, almost as an afterthought.

 Stormwind!thought Khadgar,King Llane’s castle . What would be important enough for him to have to
go there? Perhaps a report of the orcs?

Khadgar looked at his writing. With the news that Medivh was back, and that they would leave soon,
his thoughts were disrupted, and now his mind was on the new task. He looked at the last words he
wrote on the parchment.

Aegwynn has two shadows,it said.

 Khadgar shook his head. Whatever course his mind was following was gone now. He carefully blotted
the excess ink to make sure it did not smear, and set the pages aside. Then he gathered his tools, and
quickly headed for his quarters. He would have to change into traveling clothes if he was going
gryphon-back, and would need to pack his good conjuring cloak if he was going to meet royalty.


 Seven
 Stormwind
 Up until then, the greatest buildings that Khadgar had ever seen had been the Violet Citadel itself, on
Cross Island outside the city of Dalaran. The majestic spires and great halls of the Kirin Tor, roofed by
thick slate the color of lapis lazuli, which gave the citadel its name, had been a point of pride for Khadgar.
In all his travels through Lordaeron and into Azeroth, nothing, not even Medivh’s Tower, came close to
the ancient grandeur of the citadel of the Kirin Tor.

Until he came to Stormwind.

 They had flown through the night, as before, and this time the young mage was convinced he had slept
while guiding the gryphon through the chill night air. Whatever knowledge Medivh had placed in his mind
was still operating, for he was sure with his ability to guide the winged predator with his knees, and felt
quite at home. The part of his brain where the knowledge resided felt no pain this time, but rather a slight
thrumming, like the mental tissue had healed over, leaving scar tissue, taking the knowledge within but still
recognizing it as a separate part of him.

He woke as the sun crested the horizon behind him, and panicked momentarily, causing the great flier to
bank slightly, dragging it away from following in Medivh’s wake. Ahead of him, sudden and brilliant in the
morning sun, was Stormwind.
It was a citadel of gold and silver. The walls in the morning light seemed to glow with their own radiance,
burnished like a chalice under a castellan’s cleaning. The roofs glittered as if crafted from silver, and for a
moment Khadgar thought they were set with innumerable small gems.

 The young mage blinked and shook his head. The golden walls became mere stone, though polished to a
fine luster in some places, intricately carved in others. The roofs of silver were merely dark slate, and
what he thought were gemstones merely collected dew rainbowing back the dawn.

 And yet Khadgar was still astounded by the city’s size. As great if not greater than anything in
Lordaeron, and seen from this great height, it spread out before him. He counted three full sets of walls
ribboned around the central keep, and lesser barriers separating different wards. Everywhere he looked,
there was more city beneath him.

 Even now, in the dawn hours, there was activity. Smoke rose from morning fires, and already people
were clotting in the open marketplaces and commons. Great wains were lumbered out of the main gates,
loaded with farmers heading for the neat, ordered fields that spread out from the city’s walls like skirts,
stretching almost to the horizon.

 Khadgar could not identify half the buildings. Great towers could have been universities or granaries, as
far as he could tell. A surging river cascade had been harnessed by massive waterwheels, but to what
purpose he could not guess. There was a sudden flame far to his right, though whether from a foundry, a
captive dragon, or some great accident was a mystery.

It was the greatest city he had ever seen, and at its heart was Llane’s castle.

It could be no other. Here the walls seemed to be truly made of gold, set with silver around the
windows. The royal roof was shod with blue slate, as deep and luxurious as a sapphire’s, and from its
myriad towers Khadgar could see pennants with the lion’s head of Azeroth, the sigil of King Llane’s
household and symbol of the land.

 The castle complex seemed to be a small city in itself, with innumerable side buildings, towers, and halls.
Arching galleries spanned between buildings, at lengths that Khadgar thought impossible without magical
aide.

 Perhaps such a structure could only be crafted with magic, thought Khadgar, and realized that perhaps
this was one reason Medivh was so valued here.

The older mage raised a hand and circled over one particular tower, its topmost floor a level parapet.
Medivh pointed down—once, twice, a third time. He wanted Khadgar to land first.

 Pulling from the scabbed-over memories, Khadgar brought the great gryphon down neatly. The great
eagle-headed beast churned its wings backward like a great sail, slowing to a delicate landing.

 There was a delegation already waiting for him. A group of retainers in blue livery surged forward to
take the reins and fit the gryphon’s head with a heavy hood. The alien memories told Khadgar that this
was similar to a falconer’s snood, restricting the raptor’s vision. Another had a bucket of warm cow guts,
which were carefully presented before the gryphon’s snapping beak.

 Khadgar slid from the gryphon’s back and was greeted warmly by Lord Lothar himself. The huge man
seemed even larger in an ornate robe and cape, topped with a inscribed breastplate and filigreed mantle
hanging on his shoulder.
 “Apprentice!” said Lothar, swallowing Khadgar’s hand in his huge meaty paw. “Good to see you’re still
employed!”

 “My lord,” said Khadgar, trying not to wince from the pressure of the larger man’s grip. “We flew
through the night to get here. I don’t…”

 The rest of Khadgar’s statement was swept away in a flurry of wings and the panicked squawk of a
gryphon. Medivh’s mount tumbled out of the sky, and the Magus was less graceful in his landing. The
huge flier slid across the width of the turret and almost fell off the other side, and Medivh pulled hard on
the reins. As it was, the gryphon’s great foreclaws clutched at the crenellated wall, and almost tipped the
older mage over the side.

Khadgar did not wait for comment from Lord Lothar, but bolted forward, followed by the host of
blue-clad retainers, and Lothar lumbering up behind them.

 Medivh had already dismounted by the time they had reached him, and handed the reigns to the first of
the retainers. “Blasted crosswind!” said the older mage irritably. “I told you this was the precisely wrong
spot for an aviary, but no one listens to the mage around here. Good landing, lad,” he added as an
afterthought, as the servants swarmed over his gryphon, trying to calm it down.

“Med,” said Lothar, holding out a hand in greeting. “It is good you could come.”

Medivh just scowled. “I came as soon as I could,” the wizard snapped, responding to some affront that
passed Khadgar by entirely. “You have to get along without me sometimes, you know.”

If Lothar was surprised by Medivh’s attitude, he said nothing of it. “Good to see you anyway. His
Majesty…”

 “Will have to wait,” finished Medivh. “Take me to the chamber in question, now. No, I know the way
myself. You said it was Huglar and Hugarin. This way, then.” And with that the Magus was off, toward
the side stairs that spiraled into the tower proper. “Five levels down, then a cross bridge, then three levels
up! Horrible place for an aviary!”

Khadgar looked at Lothar. The larger man rubbed his beefy hand up over his balding pate, and shook
his head. Then he started after the man, Khadgar in tow.

Medivh was gone by the time they reached the bottom of the spiral, though a litany of complaints and the
occasional curse could be heard up ahead, diminishing fast.

“He’s in a fine mood,” said Lothar, “Let me walk you to the mage-chambers. We’ll find him there.”

“He was very agitated last night,” said Khadgar, by way of apology. “He had been gone, and apparently
your summons reached Karazhan shortly after he had returned.”

“Has he told you what all this is about, Apprentice?” asked Lothar. Khadgar had to shake his head.

 Champion Anduin Lothar frowned deeply. “Two of the great sorcerers of Azeroth are dead, their
bodies burned almost beyond recognition, their heart pulled from their very chests. Dead in their
chambers. And there is evidence—” Lord Lothar hesitated for a moment, as if trying to choose the right
words. “There is evidence of demonic activity. Which is why I sent the fastest messenger to fetch the
Magus. Perhaps he can tell us what happened.”



“Where are the bodies?” shouted Medivh, as Lothar and Khadgar finally caught up with him. They were
near the top of another of the spires of the castle, the city spread out before them in a great open bay
window opposite the door.

The room was a shambles, and looked like it had been searched by orcs, and sloppy orcs at that. Every
book had been pulled from the shelves, and every scroll unrolled, and in many cases shredded. Alchemic
devices were smashed, powders and poultices scattered about in a fine dusting, and even the furniture
broken.

 In the center of the room was a ring of power, an inscription carved into the floor itself. The ring was
two concentric circles, incised with words of power between them. The incisions in the floor were deep
and filled with a sticky dark liquid. There were two scorch marks on the floor, each man-sized, situated
between the circle and the window.

Such incised rings had only one purpose to them, as far as Khadgar knew. The librarian in the Violet
Citadel was always warning about them.

 “Whereare the bodies?” repeated Medivh, and Khadgar was glad that he was not expected to provide
the answers. “Where are the remains of Huglar and Hugarin?”

“They were removed soon after they were found,” said Lothar calmly. “It was unseemly to leave them
here. We didn’t know when you would arrive.”

 “You didn’t knowif I would arrive, you mean,” snapped Medivh. “All right. All right. We can still salvage
something. Who has come into this room?”

“The Conjurer-Lords Huglar and Hugarin,” began Lothar.

“Well, ofcourse,” said Medivh sharply. “They had to be here if they died here. Who else?”

“One of their servants found them,” continued Lothar. “And I was called. And I brought several
guardsmen to move the bodies. They have not been interred yet, if you wish to examine them.”

 Medivh was already deeply in thought. “Hmmm? The bodies, or the guardsmen? No matter, we can
take care of that later. So that’s a servant, yourself, and about four guards, would you say? And now
myself and my apprentice. No one else?”

“No one I can think of,” said Lothar.

The Magus closed his eyes and muttered a few words under his breath. It might have been either a curse
or a spell. His eyes flew open. “Interesting. Young Trust!”

Khadgar took a deep breath. “Lord Magus.”

 “I need your youth and inexperience. My jaded eyes may see what I’m expecting to see. I need fresh
eyes. Don’t be afraid to ask questions, now. Come here and stand in the center of the room. No, don’t
cross the circle itself. We don’t know if it has any lingering enchantments on it. Stand here. Now. What
do you sense?”

“I see the wrecked room,” started Khadgar.

“I didn’t say see,” said Medivh sharply. “I said sense.”

 Khadgar took a deep breath and cast a minor spell, one that sharpened the senses and helped find lost
articles. It was a simple divination, one he had used hundreds of times in the Violet Citadel. It was
particularly good for finding things that others wanted to keep hidden.

 But even upon the first intoned words, Khadgar could feel it was different. There was a sluggishness to
the magic in this room. Often magic had a feel of lightness and energy, but this felt more viscous, almost
liquid in nature. Khadgar had never felt it before, and wondered if it was because of the circles of power,
or powers and cantrips of the late mages themselves.

 It was a thick feeling, like stale air in a room that had been shuttered for years. Khadgar tried to pull the
energies together, but they seemed to resist, to follow his desires with only the greatest reluctance.

 Khadgar’s face grew stern as he tried to pull more of the power of the room, of the magical energies,
into himself. This was a simple spell. If anything, it should be easier in a place where such castings would
be commonplace.

 And suddenly the young mage was inundated with the thick fetid feel of the magic. It was suddenly upon
him and surrounding him, as if he had pulled the bottom-most stone out and brought down a wall upon
himself. The force of the dark, heavy magic fell upon him in a thick blanket, crushing the spell beneath him
and driving him physically to his knees. Despite himself, he cried out.

Medivh was at his side at once, helping the young mage to his feet. “There, there,” said the Magus, “I
didn’t expect you to succeed even that well. Good try. Excellent work.”

“What is it?” managed Khadgar, suddenly able to breath again. “It was like nothing I’ve felt before.
Heavy. Resistant. Smothering.”

 “That’s good news for you, then,” said Medivh. “Good that you sensed it. Good that you carried
through. The magic has been particularly twisted here, a remnant of what occurred earlier.”

“You mean like a haunting?” said Khadgar. “Even in Karazhan, I never…”

“No, not like that,” said Medivh. “Something much worse. The two dead mages here were summoning
demons. It’s that taint that you feel here, that heaviness of magic. A demon was here. That is what killed
Huglar and Hugarin, the poor, powerful idiots.”



There was a silence of a moment, then Lothar said, “Demons? In the king’s towers? I cannot believe…”

 “Oh, believe,” said Medivh. “No matter how learned and knowledgeable, how wise and wonderful, how
powerful and puissant, there is always one more sliver of power, one more bit of knowledge, one more
secret to be learned by any mage. I think these two fell into that trap, and called upon forces from
beyond the Great Dark Beyond, and paid the price for it. Idiots. They were friends and colleagues, and
they were idiots.”
“But how?” said Lothar. “Surely there were to be protections. Wards. This is a mystic circle of power.”

 “Easily breached, easy broken,” said Medivh, leaning over the ring the glimmered with the dried blood
of the two mages. He reached down and produced a thin straw that had laid over the cooling stones.
“A-hah! A simple broom straw. If this was here when they began their summonings, all the adjurations
and phylacteries in the world would not protect them. The demon would consider the circle to be no
more than an arch, a gateway into this world. He would come out, hellfire blazing, and attack the poor
fools who brought him into this world. I’ve seen it before.”

 Khadgar shook his head. The thick darkness that seemed to press in on all sides of him seemed to lift
somewhat, and he gathered his wits about him. He looked around the room. It was already a disaster
area—the demon had torn everything apart in its assault. If there was a broom straw breaking the circle,
then it surely should have been moved elsewhere during the battle.

“How were the bodies found?” asked Khadgar.

“What?” said Medivh, with a sharpness that almost made Khadgar jump.

“I’m sorry,” Khadgar responded quickly. “You said I should ask questions.”

 “Yes, yes, of course,” said Medivh, cooling his harsh tone only a notch. To the King’s Champion he
said, “Well, Anduin Lothar, how were the bodies found?”

“When I came in, they were on the ground. The servant had not moved them,” said Lothar.

“Faceup or facedown, sir?” said Khadgar, as calmly as he could. He could feel the icy stare of the elder
mage. “Heads toward the circle or toward the window?”

 Lothar’s face clouded in memory. “Toward the circle. And facedown. Yes, definitely. They were badly
scorched all over, and we had to turn them over to make sure it was Huglar and Hugarin.”

“What are you driving at, Young Trust?” said the Magus, now seated by the open window, stroking his
beard.

 Khadgar looked at the two scorch marks between the malfunctioned protective circle and the window,
and tried to think of them both as bodies and not think of them as once-living mages. “If you hit someone
from the front, they fall backward. If you hit someone from the back, they fall forward. Was the window
open when you arrived?”

 Lothar looked at the open bay window, the great city beyond forgotten for the moment. “Yes. No. Yes,
I think it was. But it could have been opened by the servant. There was a horrible stench—that’s what
brought attention to it in the first place. I can ask.”

 “No need,” said Medivh. “The window was likely open when your servant entered.” The Magus rose
and walked to where the scorch marks were. “So you think, Young Trust,” he said, “that Huglar and
Hugarin were standing here, watching the magic circle, and something came in the window and hit them
from the back.” For effect he smacked himself against the back of the head with an open palm. “They fell
forward, and were burned in that position.”

“Yes, sir,” said Khadgar. “I mean, it’s a theory.”
 “A good one,” said Medivh. “But wrong, I’m afraid. In the first place, the two mages would be standing
there, facing nothing at all,unless they were looking at the magic circle. Therefore they were summoning a
demon. Such a circle would not be used otherwise.”

“But…” started Khadgar, and the Magus froze his words in his throat with a harsh glance.

 “And,”continued Medivh, “while that would work with a single attacker with a sap or a club, it does not
function as well for the dark energies of demons. Had the beast breathed fire, it could have caught both
men standing, killed them, and only after being set alight, the bodies fell forward. You said the bodies
were burned front and back?” He put that question to Lothar.

“Yes,” said the King’s Champion.

 Medivh held a palm up in front of him. “Demon breathes fire. Burns the front. Huglar (or Hugarin) falls
forward, flames spread to the back. Unless the demon hit Hugarin (or Huglar) in the back, then turned
them over to make sure the front was burned, then turned them over again. Hardly likely—demons are
not that methodical.”

Khadgar felt his face warm from embarrassment. “I’m sorry. It was just a theory.”

“And a good one,” said Medivh quickly. “Just in error, that’s all. You’re right, the window would be
open, because that was how the demon left the tower. It is at large in the city right now.”

Lothar cut short a curse, and said, “Are you sure?”

 Medivh nodded. “Completely. But it will probably be laying low for the moment. Even killing two fools
like Huglar and Hugarin by surprise would tax any but the most powerful creature’s abilities.”

“I can organize search parties within the hour,” said Lothar.

 “No,” said Medivh. “I want to do this myself. No use throwing away good lives after bad. I’ll want to
see the remains, of course. That will tell me what we’re dealing with here.”

“We moved them to a cool room in the wine cellar,” said Lothar. “I can take you there.”

 “In a moment,” said Medivh. “I want to look about here for a moment. Will you grant me and my
apprentice a moment or ten alone?”

 Lothar hesitated for a moment, then said, “Of course. I will be right outside.” As he said the last he
looked at Khadgar sharply, then left.

The door’s latch clicked shut and there was silence in the room. Medivh moved from table to table,
pawing through the shredded tomes and torn papers. He held up a piece of correspondence with a
purple seal, and shook his head. Slowly, he crumbled the piece of paper in his hand.

 “Incivilized countries,” he said, his voice slightly strained, “apprentices don’t disagree with their masters.
At least in public.” He turned toward Khadgar and the youth saw the older man’s face was a mass of
storm clouds.

“I am sorry,” said Khadgar. “You said I should ask questions, and the position of the bodies did not
seem right at the time, but now that you mention how the bodies were burned…”

 Medivh held up a hand and Khadgar silenced himself. He paused a moment, then let out a slow
exhalation. “Enough. You did the right thing, no more or less than asked by me. And if you hadn’t
spoken up, I wouldn’t have realized the demon probably skittered down the tower itself, and wasted
more time searching the castle complex. But, you asked questions because you don’t know much about
demons, and that is ignorance. And ignorance I willnot tolerate.”

 The elder Magus looked at Khadgar, but there was a smile at the corner of his lips. Khadgar, sure that
the storm had passed, lowered himself onto a stool. Despite himself, he still said, “Lothar…”

“Will wait,” said Medivh, nodding. “He waits well, that Anduin Lothar. Now, what did you learn of
demons in your time at the Violet Citadel?”

 “I’ve heard the legends,” said Khadgar. “In the First Days, there were demons in the land, and great
heroes arose to drive them out.” He thought of the image of Medivh’s mother blasting the demons to bits,
and facing down their Lord, but said nothing. No need to make Medivh angry again now that he’d
calmed down.

“That’s the basics,” said Medivh. “What we tell the hoi polloi. What do you know in addition?”

 Khadgar took a deep breath. “The official teachings in the Violet Citadel, in Kirin Tor, is that
demonology is to be eschewed, avoided, and abjured. Any attempt to summon demons are to be found
out and stopped at once, and those involved are to be expelled. Or worse. There were stories, among
the young students, when I was growing up.”

“Stories grounded in fact,” said Medivh. “But you’re a curious lad, you know more, I assume?”

 Khadgar tilted his head in thought, choosing words carefully. “Korrigan, our academic librarian, had an
extensive collection of…material at his disposal.”

“And needed someone to help organize it,” said Medivh dryly. Khadgar must have jumped, because
Medivh added, “That was a guess, only, Young Trust.”

 “The material is mostly folk legends and the reports of the local authorities involving demon worshipers.
Most of it was along the lines of individuals committing foul acts in the name of some old demon from the
legends or another. Nothing about the actions of truly summoning a demon. No spells, no arcane
writings.” Khadgar motioned toward the protective circle. “No ceremonies.”

“Of course,” said Medivh. “Even Korrigan would not inflict that on a student. If he has such things, he
would keep them separate.”

 “From that, the general belief is that when the demons were defeated, they were driven out of this world
entirely. They were pushed out of the world of light and living, and into their own domain.”

“The Great Dark Beyond,” said Medivh, intoning the phrase like a prayer.

 “They are still out there, or so the legend goes,” said Khadgar, “and they want to come back in. Some
say they come to the weak-willed in their sleep and urge them to find old spells and make sacrifices.
Sometimes it is to open the way for them to come back fully. Others say they want worshipers and
sacrifices to make this world like it once was, bloody and violent, and only then would they return.”
Medivh was quiet for a moment, stroking his beard, then said, “Anything else?”

 “There’s more. Details and individual stories. I’ve seen carvings of demons, pictures, diagrams.” Again
Khadgar felt a rising need to tell Medivh about the vision, about the demon army. Instead he said, “And
there is that old epic poem, the one about Aegwynn, fighting a horde of demons in a far-off land.”

The mention of that brought a gentle, knowing smile to Medivh’s face, “Ah yes, “The Song of
Aegwynn.” You’ll find that poem in a lot of powerful mages’ quarters, you know.”

“My teacher, Lord Guzbah was interested in it,” said Khadgar.

 “Is he, now?” said Medivh, smiling. “With all due respect, I don’t know if Guzbah is quite ready for that
poem. At least not in its true form.” He peaked his eyebrows. “What you have is basically true. A lot of
people couch it in the form of legends and fairy stories, but I think you know as well as I do that demons
are real, and are out there, and yes, form a threat to those of us who walk this sunlit world, as well as
other worlds. I think, now, I definitelythink, that your red-sunned world was another place, a different
world, on the far side of the Great Dark Beyond. The Beyond is a prison for these demons, a place
without light or succor, and they are very, very jealous and very, very anxious to get back in.”

 Khadgar nodded, and Medivh continued, “But your assumption that their victims are weak-willed is in
error, though again an error that is well-intended. There are more than enough venal farmhands who
invoke a demonic force for revenge against a former lover, or stupid merchants who burn an invoice from
a debtor with a black candle, badly mangling the ancient name of some once-great demonic power. But
just as often there are those who walk willingly to the abyss, who feel themselves safe and sure and
knowledgeable that they are beyond any blandishment or threat, that they are powerful enough to harness
the demonic energies that surge beyond the walls of the world. They are in many ways even more
dangerous than the common rabble, for as you know, a near-failure in spellcasting is more deadly than a
complete failure.”

Khadgar could only nod, and wondered if Medivh had the power of the mind, “But these were powerful
mages—Huglar and Hugarin, I mean.”

“The most powerful in Azeroth,” said Medivh. “The wisest and finest wizards, magical advisors to King
Llane himself. Safe, sage, and sinecured!”

“Surely they would know better?” asked Khadgar.

“You would think so,” said Medivh. “Yet, here we stand in the wreckage of their chambers, and their
demon-burned bodies lay in the wine cellar.”

“Why would they do it, then?” Khadgar knitted his brows, trying not to offend. “If they knew so much,
why did they try to summon a demon?”

“Many reasons,” said Medivh with a sigh. “Hubris, that false pride that goes before the fall.
Overconfidence, both in each individually and doubled it for working in tandem. And fear, I suppose,
most of all.”

“Fear?” Khadgar looked at Medivh quizzically.

“Fear of the unknown,” said Medivh. “Fear of the known. Fear of things more powerful than they.”
Khadgar shook his head. “What could be more powerful than two of the most advanced and learned
wizards in Azeroth?”

 “Ah,” said Medivh, and a small smile blossomed beneath his beard. “That would be me. They killed
themselves summoning a demon, playing with forces best left alone, because they fearedme.”

“You?” said Khadgar, the surprise in his voice greater than he had intended. For a moment he feared
offending the older mage once more.

 But Medivh just took a deep breath and blew the air out slowly. Then he said, “Me. They were fools,
but I blame myself as well. Come, lad, Lothar can wait. It’s time I told you the story of the Guardians
and of the Order of Tirisfal, which is all that stands between us and the Darkness.”


 Eight
 Lessons
 To understand the Order,” said Medivh, “you must understand demons. You must also understand
magic.” He lowered himself comfortably on one of the still-undamaged chairs. The chair also had one of
the few unripped pillows upon it.

 “Lord Medivh…Magus,” said Khadgar. “If there is a demon abroad in Stormwind, we should
concentrate on that, and not on history lessons that could wait until later.”

 Medivh looked down at his chest, and Khadgar feared that he risked another outburst from the elder
mage. But the master mage merely shook his head, and smiled as he said, “Your concerns would be valid
if the demon in question was a threat to those around it. Take my word for it, it is not. The demon, even
were it one of the more powerful officers within the Burning Legion, would have expended almost all its
personal power in dealing with the two powerful mages that summoned it. It is of little matter, at least for
the moment. What is important, is that you understand what the Order is, what I am, and why others are
so deeply interested in it.”

“But Magus…” started Khadgar.

“And the sooner I finish the sooner I will know that I can trust you with the information, and the sooner I
will go out to deal with this petty demon, so if you truly want me to go you should let me finish, eh?”
Medivh gave the younger mage a hard, knowing smile.

Khadgar opened his mouth to protest, but thought better of it. He slouched down against the wide ledge
by the open window. Despite the efforts of the servants to remove the bodies from the tower, the stench
of their death, a corrosive pallor, was still heavy in the air.

“So. What is magic?” asked Medivh, in the manner of a schoolmage.

 “An ambient field of energy that pervades the world,” said Khadgar, almost without thinking. It was
catechism, a simple answer for a simple question. “It is stronger in some locations than others, but it is
ever-present.”
“Yes it is,” said the older mage, “at leastnow. But imagine a time when it was not.”

 “Magic is universal,” said Khadgar, knowing as soon as he said it that it was soon to prove not to be.
“Like air or water.”

 “Yes, like water,” said Medivh. “Now imagine a time at the very start of things, when all the water in the
world was in one location. All the rain and rivers and seas and streams, all the showers and creeks and
tears, all in one location, in one well.”

Khadgar nodded, slowly.

 “Now, instead of water, it is magic we’re talking about,” said Khadgar. “A well of magic, the source, an
opening into other dimensions, a shimmering doorway into the lands beyond the Great Dark, beyond the
walls of the world. The first peoples to cast spells encamped around the well and distilled its raw power
into magic. They were called the Kaldorei then. What they are called now, I cannot say.” Medivh looked
at Khadgar, but the younger mage kept his silence now.

 Medivh resumed. “The Kaldorei grew powerful from their use of magic, but they did not understand its
nature. They did not understand that there were other, powerful forces in the Great Dark Beyond,
moving in the space between worlds, that hungered after magic and were very interested in any who
tamed it and refined it to their own ends. These malign forces were abomination and juggernauts and
nightmares from hundreds of worlds, but we call them simply demons. They sought to invade any world
where magic was mastered and grown, and destroy it, keeping the energies for themselves alone. And
the greatest of them, the master of the Burning Legion, was a demon named Sargeras.”

Khadgar thought of the vision with Aegwynn and suppressed a shudder.

 If Medivh noticed the young mage’s reaction he did not say anything. “The Lord of the Burning Legion
was both powerful and subtle, and worked to corrupt the early magic-users, the Kaldorei. He
succeeded, for a dark shadow fell upon their hearts, and they enslaved other races, the nascent humans
as well as others, in order to build their empire.”

 Medivh sighed, “Now in this time of the enslaving Kaldorei, there were those with greater vision than
their brethren, who were willing both to speak out against the Kaldorei and to pay the price for their
vision. These brave individuals, both Kaldorei and other races as well, saw the hearts of the ruling
Kaldorei grow cold and dark, and the demonic power grow.”

 “So it came to pass that the Kaldorei were corrupted by Sargeras such that they nearly damned this
world at its birth. The Kaldorei ignored those who spoke out against them, and opened the way for the
most powerful of demons, Sargeras and his lot, to invade. Only by the heroic actions of a few was the
shimmering doorway through the Great Dark shut, exiling Sargeras and his followers. But the victory was
at great cost. The Well of Eternity exploded when the doorway was shut down, and the resulting
explosion ripped the heart out of this world, destroying the Kaldorei lands and the very continent it rested
upon. Those that shut the door were never seen again by living eyes.”

“Kalimdor!” said Khadgar, interrupting despite himself.

 Medivh looked at him, and Khadgar continued, “Its an old legend in Lordaeron! Once there was an evil
race who meddled foolishly with great power. As punishment for their sins, their lands were broken and
set beneath the waves. It was called the Sundering of the World. Their lands were called Kalimdor.”
 “Kalimdor,” repeated Medivh. “Though you have the child’s version of the tale, the bit we tell would-be
mages to stress the dangers of what they are playing with. The Kaldorei were foolish, and destroyed
themselves and nearly our world. And when the Well of Eternity exploded, the magical energies within
scattered to the four corners of the earth, in an eternal rain of magic. Andthat’s why magic is
universal—it’s the power of the well’s death.”

“But Magus,” said Khadgar, “that was thousands of years ago.”

“Ten thousand years,” said Medivh, “give or take a score.”

 “How is it that the legend comes down to us? Dalaran itself has histories only going back twenty
centuries, and the earliest of those are wrapped in legends.”

 Medivh nodded and took up the story again. “Many were lost in the sinking of Kalimdor, but some
survived, and took their knowledge with them. Some of these surviving Kaldorei would found the Order
of Tirisfal. Whether Tirisfal was a person, or a place, or a thing, or a concept, even I cannot say. They
took the knowledge, of what had happened, and swore to keep it from ever happening again, and that is
the bedrock of the Order.

 “Now, the race of humans survived those dark days as well, and thrived, and soon, with magical energy
worked into the fabric of the world itself, they too were scratching at the doors of reality, beginning to
summon creatures from the Great Dark, prying at the shut gates of Sargaras’s prison. That was when
those Kaldorei who had survived and changed themselves came forward with the story of how their
ancestors had almost destroyed the world.

 “The first human mages considered what the surviving Kaldorei had said, and realized that even were
they to lay down their wands and grimoires and ciphers, that others would seek, innocently or less so,
ways to allow the demons access once more to our green lands. And so they continued the Order, now
as a secret society among the most powerful of their mages. This Order of Tirisfal would choose one of
its number, who would serve as theGuardian of theTirisfalen. This guardian would be given the greatest of
powers, and would be the gatekeeper of reality. But now the gate was not a single great well of power,
but rather an infinite rain that continues to fall even today. It is nothing less than the heaviest responsibility
in the world.”

Medivh fell silent, and his eyes lost their focus briefly, as if he were suddenly swept into the past himself.
Then he shook his head, returning to himself, but still did not speak.

“You are the Guardian,” said Khadgar, simply.

 “Aye,” said Medivh, “I am the child of the greatest Guardian of all time, and was given her power soon
after my birth. It was…too much for me, and I paid for it with a good piece of my youth.”

 “But you said the mages chose among themselves,” said Khadgar. “Couldn’t Magna Aegwynn have
chosen an older candidate? Why chose a child, especially her own child?”

 Medivh took a deep breath. “The first Guardians, for the first millennium, were chosen among the select
group. The very existence of the Order was kept hidden, as was the wishes of the original founders.
However, over time, politics and personal interests came into play, such that the Guardian soon became
little more than a servant, a magical dogsbody. Some of the more powerful mages felt it was the
Guardian’s job to keepeveryone else from enjoying the power that they themselves commanded. Like
the Kaldorei before us, a shadow of corrupting power was moving through the members of the Order.
More demons were getting through, and even Sargeras himself had manifested the smallest bits of
himself. A mere fraction of his power, but enough to slay armies and destroy nations.”

Khadgar thought of the image of Sargeras that fought Aegwynn in the vision. Could this have been a
mere fraction of the great demon’s power?

 “Magna Aegwynn,” Medivh said the words, then stopped. It was as if he was not used to speaking
those words. “She who bore me was herself born nearly a thousand years ago. She was greatly gifted,
and chosen by other members of the Order to become the Guardian. I believe the grayest of the
graybeards of that time thought they could control her, and in doing so continue to use the Guardian as a
pawn of their own political games.

 “She surprised them.”—and at this Medivh smiled. “She refused to be manipulated, and indeed fought
against some of the greatest mages of her age when they themselves fell into demonic lore. Some thought
that her independence was a passing thing, that when her time came, she would have to pass the mantle
on to a more malleable candidate. Again, she surprised them, using the magics within her to live for a
thousand years, unchanging, and to wield her power with wisdom and grace. So the Order and the
Guardian split. The former can advise the latter, but the latter must be free to challenge the former, to
avoid what happened to the Kaldorei.

“For a thousand years she fought the Great Dark, even challenging the physical aspect of Sargeras
himself, who had instilled himself into this plane and sought to destroy the mythical dragons, adding their
power to his own. Magna Aegwynn met him and defeated him, locking his body away in a place where
none knows, keeping him forever from the Great Dark that is his power. That’s in that epic poem, ‘The
Song of Aegwynn,’ the one Guzbah wants. But she could not do it forever, and there must always be a
Guardian.

 “And then…” And again Medivh’s voice faltered. “She had one more trick up her sleeve. Powerful she
was, but she was still of mortal flesh. She was expected to pass on her power. Instead she fathered an
heir on a conjurer from the Court of Azeroth itself, and she chose that child as her successor. She
threatened the Order, saying that if her choice was not honored, she would not step down, and would
rather take the power of the Guardian into death than allow another to have it. They felt theymight be
able to manipulate the child…me…better, and so they allowed it.

“The power was too much,” said Medivh. “When I was a young man, younger than you, it awoke within
me, and I slept for over twenty years. Magna Aegwynn had so much of a life, and I seem to have lost
most of it.” His voice faltered again. “Magna Aegwynn…my mother…” he began, but found he had
nothing more to say.

 Khadgar just sat there for a moment. Then Medivh rose, shook back his mane and said, “And while I
slept, evil crept back into the world. There are more demons, and more of these orcs as well. And now
members of my own Order are once more playing the dark road. Yes, Huglar and Hugarin were
members of the Order, as have been others, like ancient Arrexis among the Kirin Tor. Yes, something
similar happened to him, and while they covered it up neatly, you probably heardsomething about it. They
feared my mother’s power, and they fear me, and I have to keep their fear from destroying them. Such is
the charge laid upon the Guardian of Tirisfal.”

The older man launched himself to his feet. “I must be off!” he said.

“Off?” said Khadgar, suddenly surprised by the energy within the lanky frame.
“As you have so rightly noted, there is a demon abroad,” said Medivh with a renewed smile. “Sound the
hunter’s horn, I must find it before it regains its wits and strength and kills others!”

Khadgar pulled himself upright. “Where do we start?”

Medivh pulled himself up short, and turned, looking slightly sheepishly at the younger man. “Ah.We are
not starting anywhere. I am going to go. You’re talented, but you’re not up to demons quite yet. This
battle is my own, Young Apprentice Trust.”

“Magus, I am sure I can…”

But Medivh raised a hand to silence him.

 “I also need you here to keep your own ears open,” said Medivh, in a quieter voice. “I have no doubt
that Old Lothar has spent the past ten minutes with his ear to the door, such that there will be a
keyhole-shaped impression on the side of his face.” Medivh grinned. “He knows a lot, but not all. That’s
why I had to tell you, so he doesn’t pry too much out of you. I need someone to guard the Guardian, as
it were.”

Khadgar looked at Medivh and the older mage winked. Then the Magus strode to the door and pulled it
open with a quick motion.

 Lothar did not stumble into the room, but he was there, right on the other side. He could have been
listening, or just standing watch.

“Med,” said Lothar with a game smile. “His Majesty…”

 “His Majesty will understand perfectly,” said Medivh, breezing right past the larger man. “That I would
rather meet with a rampaging demon than the leader of a nation. Priorities and all that. In the mean time
will you look after my apprentice?”

He said it all in a single breath, and then he was gone, out into the hall and down the stairs, leaving
Lothar in mid-sentence.

 The old warrior rubbed a great hand up over his balding pate, letting out an exaggerated sigh. Then he
looked at Khadgar and let out another, deeper sigh.

“He’s always been like this, you know,” said Lothar, as if Khadgar truly did know. “I suppose you’re
hungry, at least. Let’s see if we can find some lunch.”



 Lunch consisted of a cold game fowl looted from the cold room and tucked under Lothar’s arm, and
two mugs of ale the size of ewers, one in each meaty hand. The King’s Champion was surprisingly at
ease, despite the situation, and guided Khadgar out to a high balcony overlooking the city.

“My lord,” said Khadgar. “Despite the Magus’s request, I realize you have other work.”

“Aye,” said Lothar, “and most of it was taken care of while you were talking to Medivh. His majesty
King Llane is in his quarters, as are most of the courtiers, under guard, in case that demon decided to
hide in the castle. Also I have agents already spreading through the city, with orders to both report
anything suspicious but not to make themselves suspicious. The last thing we need is a demon-panic. I’ve
cast all my lines, and now there is nothing to do but wait.” He looked at the younger man. “And my
lieutenants know that I’ll be on this balcony, as I always have a late lunch anyway.”

Khadgar considered Lothar’s words, and thought that the King’s Champion was very much like
Medivh—not only planning ahead a few moves, but delighting in telling others how he’s planned things
out. The apprentice picked at the sliced breast meat while Lothar tore into a drumstick.

 The pair ate in silence for a long time. The fowl was anything but foul, for it was treated with a
concoction of rosemary, bacon, and sheep’s butter placed beneath the skin before roasting. Even cold it
fell apart in the mouth. The ale for its part was pungent, rich with bottomland hops.

 Beneath them the city unfolded. The citadel itself was atop a rocky outcropping that already separated
the King from his subjects, and from the tower’s additional height, the citizens of Stormwind looked like
naught but small dolls busying themselves along crowded streets. Some sort of market day was playing
out beneath them, brightly-tarped storefronts occupied with vendors bellowing (very quietly, it seemed to
Khadgar at this altitude) the virtues of their wares.

For a moment Khadgar forgot where he was, and what he had seen, and why he was there in the first
place. It was a beautiful city. Only Lothar’s deep grumble brought him back to this world.

“So,” said the King’s Champion in his way of introspection. “How is he?”

Khadgar thought for a moment, and replied, “He is in good health. You have seen that yourself, milord.”

 “Bah,” spat Lothar, and for a moment Khadgar thought the knight was choking on a large piece of meat.
“I can see, and I know Med can dance and bluff his way past just about anyone. What I mean to say is,
Howis he?”

Khadgar looked out at the city again, wondering if he had Medivh’s talent to bluster his way past the
older man, to deny answers without causing affront.

 No, he decided, Medivh played on loyalties and friendships older than he was. He had to find another
way to respond. He let out a sigh and said, “Demanding. He’s very demanding. And intelligent. And
surprising. I feel I have apprenticed myself to a whirlwind, sometimes.” He looked at Lothar, his
eyebrows raised, hoping that this would be sufficient.

Lothar nodded, “A whirlwind, aye. And a thunderstorm, too, I suspect.”

Khadgar shrugged awkwardly. “He has his moods, like anyone.”

“Hmmpph,” said the King’s Champion. “An ostler has a mood and he kicks the dog. A mage has his
moods and a town disappears. No offense meant.”

“None taken, milord,” said Khadgar, thinking of the dead mages in the tower room. “You ask how he is.
He’s all these things.”

“Hmmmph,” said Lothar again. “He’s a very powerful person.”

Khadgar thoughtand you worry about him like the other wizards do. Instead he said, “He speaks well of
you.”
“What did he say?” said Lothar, more quickly than perhaps he meant to.

“Only,” Khadgar chose his words carefully, “that you served him well when he was ill.”

“True enough,” grunted the Champion, starting into the other drumstick.

“And that you are extremely observant,” added Khadgar, feeling that this was a sufficient distillation of
Medivh’s opinion of the warrior.

 “Glad to know he notices,” said Lothar, with a full mouth. There was a pause between the two of them,
as Lothar chewed and swallowed. “Has he mentioned the Guardian?”

 “We have spoken,” said Khadgar, feeling that he was on a very narrow verbal cliff. Medivh did not tell
him how much Lothar knew. He settled for silence as the best answer, and let the statement hang in the
air for a moment.

 “And it is not the Apprentice’s place to discuss the doings of the Master, eh?” said Lothar, with a smile
that seemed just a jot too forced. “Come now, you’re from Dalaran. That nest of mage-vipers has more
secrets per square foot than any other place on the continent. No offense, again.”

Khadgar shrugged off the comment. Diplomatically, he stated, “I notice that there is less obvious rivalry
between mages here than in Lordaeron.”

 “And you mean to tell me that your teachers didn’t send you out with a laundry list of things to pry out of
the high Magus?” Lothar’s grin deepened, and looked almost sympathetic.

 Khadgar felt some heat in his face. The older warrior was firing bow shots increasingly close to the gold.
“Any requests from the Violet Citadel are under Medivh’s consideration. He has beenvery
accommodating.”

 “Hmmph,” snorted Lothar. “Must mean they aren’t asking for the right stuff. I know the mages around
here, including Huglar and Hugarin, the saints rest their souls, were always pestering him for this and that,
and complaining to His Majesty or myself when they didn’t get it. Like we had any control over him!”

 “I don’t think anyone does,” said Khadgar, drowning any additional comment he might have made in his
ale.

 “Not even his mother, I understand,” said Lothar. It was a small comment, but it slipped in like a dagger
thrust. Khadgar found himself wanting to ask Lothar more about her, but contained himself.

“I fear I am too young to know,” he said. “I’ve read some on her. She seems like a powerful mage.”

 “And that power is inhim, now,” said Lothar. She whelped him from a conjurer of this very court, and
weaned him on pure magestuff, and poured her power into him. Yes, I know all about it, pieced it
together after he went into that coma. Too much, too young. Even now I’m concerned.”

“You think he’s too powerful,” said Khadgar, and Lothar froze him with a sudden, penetrating stare.
The young mage kicked himself for speaking his mind, practically accusing his host.

Lothar let out a smile and shook his head. “On the contrary, lad, I worry that he’s not powerfulenough.
There are horrible things afoot in the kingdoms. Those orc-things you saw a month ago, they’re
multiplying like rabbits after a rain. And trolls, nearly extinct, have been seen more often. And Medivh is
out hunting a demon even as we speak. Bad times are coming, and I hope, no, Ipray, that he’s up to it.
We went for twenty-some years without a Guardian, when he was in a coma. I don’t want to go another
twenty, particularly at a time like this.”

Khadgar felt embarrassed now. “So when you ask, How is he? You mean…”

 “Howis he?” finished Lothar. “I don’t want him weakening at a time like this. Orcs, trolls, demons, and
then there is…” Lothar let his voice trail off and looked at Khadgar, then said, “You know of the
Guardian, by now, I can assume?”

“You can assume,” said Khadgar.

“And the Order, too?” said Lothar, then he smiled. “No need to say anything, young man, your eyes
gave yourself away. Never play cards with me, eh?”

Khadgar felt on the very precipice itself. Medivh warned him not to let too much loose to the Champion,
but Lothar seemed to know as much as Khadgar knew. More, even.

Lothar spoke in a calm voice. “We would not send for Med for a simple matter of a magical misfire.
Nor even two common conjurers being caught in their own spells. Huglar and Hugarin were two of our
best, two of our most powerful. There was another, even more powerful, but she met an accident two
months back. All three, I believe, were members of your Order.”

 Khadgar felt a chill creep up his back. He managed to say, “I don’t think I’m comfortable speaking of
this.”

 “Then don’t,” said Lothar, his brows furrowed like the foothills of some ancient mountain chain. “Three
powerful mages, the most powerful in Azeroth. Not a patch on Med or his mother, mind you, but great
and powerful wizards nonetheless. All dead. I can buy one mage being unlucky, or being caught
unawares, but three of them? A warrior doesn’t believe in that much coincidence.

 “There’s more,” continued the King’s Champion. “I have my own ways of finding out things. Caravan
traders, mercenaries, and adventurers that come into the city often find a receptive ear with old Lothar.
Word comes from Ironforge and Alterac, and even from Lordaeron itself. There has been a plague of
such mishaps, one after another. I think someone, or worse yet, something is hunting the great mages of
this secret Order. Both here, and in Dalaran itself, I don’t doubt.”

 Khadgar realized that the older man was studying his face as he spoke, and with a start he realized that
this fit into the rumors he heard before leaving the Violet Citadel. Ancient mages, suddenly gone, and the
upper echelons quietly hushing it up. The great secret among the Kirin Tor, part of a greater problem.

 Despite himself, Khadgar looked away, out over the city. “Yes, Dalaran too, it seems,” said Lothar.
“Not much news comes from there, but I’m willing to bet that the news is similar, eh?”

“You think that the Lord Magus is in danger?” asked Khadgar. The desire to not tell Lothar anything
was eroding by the obvious concern of the older warrior.

 “I think Medivh is danger incarnate,” said Lothar. “And I admire anyone willing to be under the same
roof with him.” It sounded like a joke, but the King’s Champion did not smile. “But yes, something is out
there, and it may be tied with the demons or the orcs or something much worse. And I would hate to lose
our most powerful weapon at a time like this.”

 Khadgar looked at Lothar, trying to read the furrows of the older man’s face. Was this old warrior
worried about his friend, or worried about the loss of a magical protection? Was his concern about
Medivh’s safety, out in the middle of the wilderness, or that something was stalking them all? The older
man’s face seemed like a mask, and his deep sea-blue eyes gave no clue as to what Lothar was truly
thinking.

 Khadgar had expected a simple swordsman, a knight devoted to duty, but the King’s Champion was
more than this. He was pushing Khadgar, looking for weakness, looking for information, but to what
end?

I need someone to guard the Guardian,Medivh had said.

 “He is fine,” said Khadgar. “You are worried about him, and I share your concerns. But he is doing well,
and I doubt anything or anyone can truly hurt him.”

 Lothar’s unfathomable eyes seemed to deflate for a moment, but only a flickering moment. He was going
to say something else, to renew the prying, friendly inquisition, but a commotion within the tower drew
both their attention away from the discussion, away from the now-empty mugs and the bare bones of the
fowl.

Medivh swaggered into view, followed by a crew of servants and guardsmen. All complained about his
presence, but none would (wisely) place a hand on him, and as a result followed him like a living,
mewling comet’s tale. The older mage strode out onto the parapet.

 “I thought you a creature of habit, Lothar,” said Medivh. “I knew you’d be out here taking afternoon
tea!” The Magus beamed a warm smile, but Khadgar saw there was a slight, almost drunken sway to his
walk. Medivh kept one arm behind him, concealing something.

Lothar rose, concern in his voice. “Medivh are you all right? The demon…”

 “Ah, yes, the demon,” said Medivh brightly and pulled his bloodied prize out from behind his back. He
lobbed it at Lothar and Khadgar in a lazy, underhanded swing.

 The red orb spun as it flew, spilling the last bits of blood and brains out before landing at Lothar’s feet. It
was a demon’s skull, the flesh still adhered to it, with a mighty divot, like that of a great ax, driven into the
center, right between the ramlike horns. The demon’s expression, Khadgar thought, was one of both awe
and indignation.

“You might want to have that stuffed,” said Medivh, pulling himself seriously to his full height. “Had to
burn the rest of it, of course. No telling what the inexperienced might do with a draught of demon’s
blood.”

 Khadgar saw that Medivh’s face was more pinched than it had been earlier, and that the lines around his
eyes were more prominent. Lothar may have caught it as well, and remarked, “You caught it quite
quickly.”

 “Child’s play!” said Medivh. “Once Young Trust here pointed out how the demon fled the castle, it was
a simple matter to track it from the tower’s base to a small escarpment. It was over before I knew it.
Before it knew it either.” The Magus swayed slightly.

“Come then,” said Lothar, with a warm smile. “We should tell the King. There should be reveling in your
honor for this, Med!”

Medivh held up a hand. “You may revel without us, I am afraid. We should get back. Miles to go before
we rest. Isn’t that right, Apprentice?”

 Lothar looked at Khadgar, again with a questioning, imploring look. Medivh looked calm but worn. He
also looked expectant for Khadgar to support him this time.

The young mage coughed, “Of course. We left an experiment on the boil.”

 “Indeed!” said Medivh, picking up the lie immediately. “In our rush to get here, I had quite forgotten.
We should make haste.” The Magus wheeled and bellowed at the collected courtiers. “Make ready our
mounts! We leave at once.” The servants dissolved like a covey of quail. Medivh turned back to Lothar.
“You will make our apologies to His Majesty, of course.”

 Lothar looked at Medivh, then at Khadgar, then at Medivh again. At last he sighed and said, “Of
course. Let me lead you to the tower, at least.”

 “Lead on,” said Medivh. “Don’t forget to take your skull. I’d keep it myself, but I have one like it
already.”

Lothar hefted the ram-headed skull in one hand and brushed past Medivh, leading into the tower itself.
As he passed, the Magus seemed to deflate, the air going out of him. He looked more tired than before,
grayer than he had been moments earlier. He let out a heavy sigh and headed for the door himself.

Khadgar chased after him and caught him by the elbow. It was light touch, but the elder mage suddenly
pulled himself upright, flinching as if reacting to a blow. He turned to Khadgar, and his eyes seemed to
mist over for a moment as he looked at the younger mage.

“Magus,” said Khadgar.

“What is it now?” said Medivh in a hissing whisper.

 Khadgar thought about what to say, how to risk the Magus’s censure. “You’re not well,” he said,
simply.

 It was the right thing to say. Medivh gave an aged nod, and said, “I’ve been better. Lothar probably
knows as well, but he won’t challenge me on it. But I’d rather be home than here.” He paused for a
moment, and his lips formed a stiff line beneath his beard. “I was sick for a long time, here. Don’t want to
repeat the experience.”

Khadgar didn’t say anything, but only nodded. Lothar now stood at the door, waiting.

“You’re going to have to lead the way back to Karazhan,” said Medivh to Khadgar, loud enough for all
nearby to hear. “This city life takes too much out of a man, and I could use a nap about now!”


 Nine
 The Slumber of the Magus
 This is very important,” said Medivh, staggering slightly as he slid from the back of the gryphon. He
looked haggard, and Khadgar assumed the battle with the demon had been worse than even he let on.

 “I will be…unavailable for a few days,” continued the older Mage. “If any messengers arrive during this
time, I want you to keep track of my correspondence.”

“I can do that,” said Khadgar, “easily.”

 “No you can’t,” said Medivh, starting roughly down the stairs. “That is why I need to tell you how to
read the ones with the purple seal. The purple seal is always Order business.”

Khadgar said nothing this time, but just nodded.

 Medivh slid on the edge of the stairs and stumbled, pitching forward headlong. Khadgar lunged to grab
the older man, but the Magus had already caught himself against the wall and pulled himself upright. He
didn’t miss a beat, “In the library, there is a scroll. ‘The Song of Aegwynn.’ Tells of my mother’s battle
with Sargeras.”

 “The scroll that Guzbah wanted a copy of,” said Khadgar, now watching the mage carefully as he
lurched down the stairs ahead of him.

 “The very one,” said Medivh. “This is why he can’t have it—we use it as cipher for Order
communications. It is the master key. An identical scroll is with each of the members of the Order. If you
take the standard alphabet, and move everything down, so the first letter is represented by the fourth, or
the tenth, or the twentieth. It is a simple code. You understand?”

Khadgar started to say he did, but Medivh was already hurrying on, almost urgent in his need to explain.

 “The scroll is the key,” he repeated. At the top of the message, you’ll see what looks like a date. It’s
not. It’s a reference to the stanza, line, and word you start at. The first letter of that word becomes the
first letter of the alphabet in the code. From there it proceeds normally, the next letter in alphabetic
progression would be the second letter of the alphabet, and so on.”

“I understand.”

 “No, you don’t,” said Medivh, rushed now and tired. “That’s the cipher for the first sentence only.
When you hit a punctuation mark, you go to the second letter in the word. That becomes the equivalent
for the first letter of the alphabet for the cipher of that sentence. Punctuation is normal. Numbers are as
well, but they are supposed to write things out, not use numerals. There’s something else, but I’m missing
it.”

 They were outside Medivh’s personal quarters now. Moroes was already present, with a robe slung
over his arm and a covered bowl resting on an ornate table. From the doorway Khadgar could smell the
rich broth rising from the bowl.

“What should I do once I decipher the message?” asked Khadgar.
 “Right!” said Medivh, as if some vital connection had snapped closed in his mind. “Delay. Delay first.
Day or two, I may be up to it after that. Then equivocate. I am out on business, may return any time. Use
the same cipher as you got, but make sure you mark it as the date. If all else fails, delegate. Tell whoever
it is to use their own judgment, and I will lend what aid I can at the soonest moment. They always love
that. Donot tell them I am indisposed—the last time I mentioned that, a horde of would-be clerics arrived
to minister to my needs. I’m still missing silverware from that little visit.”

The old mage took a deep breath, and seemed to deflate, supporting himself against the door frame.
Moroes did not move, but Khadgar took a step forward.

“The fight with the demon,” said Khadgar. “It was bad, wasn’t it?”

“I’ve fought worse. Demons! Slope-shouldered, ram-headed brutes. Equal parts shadow and fire. More
beast than human, more raw bile than both. Nasty claws. That’s what you watch out for, the claws.”

Khadgar nodded. “How did you defeat it?”

“Massive trauma usually will force out the life essence,” said Medivh, “In this case, I took its head off.”

Khadgar blinked. “You didn’t have a sword.”

 Medivh smiled wearily. “Did I say I needed a sword? Enough. More questions when I am up to it.” And
with that he stepped into the room, and the ever-faithful Moroes closed the door on Khadgar. The last
sound the youth heard was the exhausted groan of an old man who had finally found a resting place.



 A week passed, and Medivh had not emerged from his quarters. Moroes would shuffle upstairs with a
daily bowl of broth. Finally, Khadgar summoned sufficient nerve to look in. The castellan made no move
to protest, other than a monosyllabic recognition of his presence there.

 In repose Medivh looked ghastly, the light gone out of his shuttered eyes, the tension of life gone from
his visage. He was dressed in a long nightshirt, propped up against the headboard, supported by pillows,
his mouth open, his face pale, his usually animate form thin and haggard. Moroes would carefully spoon
the broth into Medivh’s mouth, and he would swallow, but otherwise not awaken. The castellan would
change the bedding as well, then retire for the day.

 Khadgar got a frisson of recognition, and wondered if this was the same scene that played out in
Medivh’s youth, when his powers first surfaced, and when Lothar tended to him. He wondered how long
the Magus would truly be out. How much energy had the battle with the demon taken out of him?

 Normal communications came in, written in common hand and clear language. Some were delivered by
gryphon-rider, others by horseback, and more than a few came with the regular supply wagons of
traders seeking to fill Moroes’s larders. They were for the most part mundane—ship movements and
troop drills. Readiness reports. An occasional discovery of an ancient tomb or a forgotten artifact, or the
recovery of a time-worn legend. The sighting of a waterspout, or a great sea turtle, or a crimson tide.
Sketches of fauna that may have been new to the observer, but were better duplicated in the bestiaries
already in the library.

 And mention of the orcs, in ever-increasing numbers, particularly from the east. Rising sightings of them
in the vicinity of the Black Morass. Increased guards on the caravans, locations of temporary camps,
reports of raids, robberies, and mysterious disappearances. An increase in refugees heading for the
protection of the larger walled towns and cities. And sketches from the survivors and the slant-browed,
heavy-jawed creatures, including a detailed description of the powerful muscular systems that, Khadgar
realized with a start, could only come from vivisecting the subject.

 Khadgar began to read the mail to the wizard as he slept, reading aloud the more interesting or
humorous bits. The Magus made no response to encourage the younger mage, but neither did he forbid
it.

 The first purple-sealed letter arrived and Khadgar was immediately lost. Some of the letters made sense,
but others quickly descended into gibberish. At first the younger mage panicked, sure that he had
misunderstood some basic instruction. After a day of littering the quarters with notes and failed attempts,
Khadgar realized what he had been missing—that the space between the words was considered a letter
in the Order’s cipher, shifting everything one more letter in the process. Once that realization dawned, the
missive deciphered easily.

 It was less impressive than it had seemed earlier when it was gibberish. A note from the far south, the
peninsula of Ulmat Thondr, noting that all was quiet, there were no signs of orcs (though there was a rise
in the number of jungle trolls of late) and that a new comet was visible along the southern horizon, with
detailed notes (written out in words, not numbers). No response was requested, and Khadgar set it, and
its translation, aside.

 Khadgar wondered why the Order did not use a magical encoding or spell-based script. Perhaps not all
members of the Order of Tirisfal were mages. Or that they were trying to hide it from other wizards, like
Guzbah, and putting it in a magical script would draw their curiosity like bees to nectar. Most likely,
Khadgar decided, it was out of Medivh’s sheer cussedness to the point of making the other members of
the Order use a poem praising his mother as the key.

 A large package arrived from Lothar, distilling the previously-reported orc sightings and attacks and
translating them onto a large map. Indeed, it seemed like armies of orcs were pouring out of the swampy
territory of the Black Morass itself. Again, no response was asked. Khadgar considered sending Lothar
a note regarding Medivh’s state, but thought better of it. What could the Champion do, in any event,
other than to worry? He did send a note, over his own signature, thanking him for the information and
asking to be kept apprised.

 A second week passed and they moved into a third, the master comatose, the student searching. Now
armed with proper key, Khadgar started going through the older mail, some of it still held shut by violet
dabs of sealing wax. Going through the old documents, Khadgar began to understand Medivh’s often
ambivalent feelings toward the Order. Oftimes the letters were little more than demands—this
enchantment, that bit of information, a summons to come at once because the cows are off their feed or
their milk has gone sour. The more complementary of the missives usually held some sort of sting—a
request for a desired spell or a lost tome, wrapped up within its florid praise. Many held nothing but
pedantic advice, pointing out in detail how this candidate or that would be a perfect apprentice (these
were mostly unopened, he noticed). And there were continual reports of no news, no changes, nothing
out of the ordinary.

 The latter changed within the more recent messages (they were not dated, but Khadgar began to
determine where they fell within a timeline, both by the yellowing of the parchment and the increasing
fever pitch of demands and advice). The tone became more consolatory with the sudden appearance of
the orcs, particularly as they started raiding caravans. But the undercurrent of demands on Medivh’s time
remained, and even increased.
Khadgar looked at the old man lying on the bed and wondered what would possess him to help these
people and help them on a regular basis.

 And then there were the mystery letters—the occasional thanks, the references to some arcane text, a
response to an unknown question—“Yes,” “No,” and “The emu, of course.” During his vigil at Medivh’s
bedside one mystery letter arrived, without signature. It read “Prepare quarters. The Emissary will arrive
shortly.”

At the end of the third week two letters arrived one evening with a traveling merchant, one with the
purple seal, the other red-sealed and addressed to Khadgar himself. Both were from the Violet Citadel
of the Kirin Tor.

 The letter to Khadgar began, in a spidery hand, “We regret to inform you of the sudden and unexpected
death of the instructor mage Guzbah. We understand you have been in correspondence with the late
mage and we share your emotion and sympathy at this time. If you have any correspondence, moneys, or
information currently due to Guzbah, or are in possession of any of his property (in particular any of his
books on loan), the return of that correspondence, money, information, or property would be
appreciated, sent to the below address.” A set of numbers and a lazy, illegible scrawl marked the bottom
of the letter.

 Khadgar felt as if he had been struck in the gut. Guzbah, dead? He turned the letter over, but no further
information fell out. Stunned, he reached for the purple-sealed letter. This was in the same spider-hand,
but once it was decoded held more information.

 Guzbah was found slain in the library on the eve of the Feast of Scribes, in the midst of a reviewing
Denbrawn’s Treatise on the “Song of Aegwynn.” (Khadgar felt a pang of remorse for not sending his
former instructor the scroll.) He was apparently taken by surprise from a beast (presumably summoned)
which ripped him apart. The death was quick but painful, and the explanation of how the body was found
detailed to the point of excess. From the description of the body and the shambles of the library,
Khadgar could only conclude that the “summoned beast” was a demon of the type Medivh had fought in
Stormwind.

 The letter continued, the words maintaining a cold, analytical tone that Khadgar found excessive. The
writer noted that this was the seventh death within the year of a mage of the Violet Citadel, including that
of the archmage Arrexis. It went on further to note that this was the first death of this type where the
victim was not a member of the Order itself. The writer wanted to know if Medivh had been in contact
with Guzbah, either directly or through his apprentice (Khadgar had a moment of déjà vu looking at his
own name in print). The unknown author went forward to speculate that since he was not a member of
the Order, Guzbah might be responsible for the summoning of the beast for some other matter, and if this
was the case, then Medivh should be aware that Khadgar had been Guzbah’s student at one point.

 Khadgar felt a sharp pain of anger. How dare this mysterious writer (it had to be someone high within
the Kirin Tor hierarchy, but Khadgar had no idea who) impinge both Guzbah and himself! Khadgar
wasn’t even present when Guzbah was killed! Perhaps this writer was the one responsible, or someone
like Korrigan—the librarian was always researching demon-worshipers. Casting accusations about like
that!

 Khadgar shook his head and took a deep breath. No, such speculation was futile and fueled only by
personal indignation, like so much of the politics of the Kirin Tor. The anger faded to sadness and
realization that the mighty mages of the Violet Citadel were unable to stop this, that seven wizards (six of
them members of this supposedly secret and powerful Order) had died, and all this writer could do was
cast about aspersions in the desperate hope that there would be no additional deaths. Khadgar thought of
Medivh’s quick and decisive actions at Stormwind Keep, and marveled that there was no one of equal
wit, drive, and intelligence within his own community.

 The young mage picked up the encoded letter and examined it again in the wan candlelight. The Feast of
Scribes was over a month and a half ago. It took this long for the message to cross the sea and reach
them overland. A month and a half. Before Huglar and Hugarin were killed in Stormwind. If the same
demon was involved, or even the same summoner, it would have to move between the two points very,
very swiftly. Some of the demons in the vision had wings—was it possible for such a beast to move
between the locations without anyone spotting it?

An errant and unexpected breeze wafted through. The hairs on the back of Khadgar’s neck began to
bristle, and he looked up in time to see the figure manifest within the room.

 First there was smoke, red as blood, bubbling out from some pinprick hole in the universe. It coiled and
curdled upon itself like milk rising through water, quickly forming a swirling mass, through which stepped
the looming form of a great demon.

 Its form was reduced from when Khadgar had seen it before, on the field of snow in the timelost vision.
It had shrunk itself to allow it to fit within the confines of the room. Still its flesh was of bronze, its armor
of jet-black iron, and its beard and hair of animated fire, huge horns erupting from a massive brow. It
was weaponless, but seemed to need no weapons, for it moved with the comfortable grace of a predator
that fears nothing.

Sargeras.

 Khadgar was stunned into silence and immobility. Surely the wards Medivh had maintained would keep
such a beast at bay? Yet here it was, entering the tower, entering the Magus’s very room with the ease of
a noble entering a commoner’s shack.

 The Lord of the Burning Legion did not look around, instead glided to the foot of the bed. He stood
there for a long moment, the flames of his beard and hair flickering without sound, as he regarded the
unconscious form before him. The demon stood watching the sleeping mage.

 Khadgar held his breath and looked around the worktable. A few tomes, the candle backlit by a mirror
for greater illumination. A letter opener used to break the purple seals. The young mage slowly reached
for the opener, trying to move without attracting the great demon’s attention. His fingers wrapped around
it tightly, his knuckles white.

Still Sargeras stood at the foot of the bed. A long moment passed, and Khadgar tried to will himself to
move. Either to flee or to attack. His muscles felt locked in position.

 Medivh shifted in his bedding, mumbling something unheard. The demon lord raised a hand slowly, as if
to pronounce a benediction on the Magus’s inert form.

Khadgar gave a strangled cry and thrust himself up from his chair, letter opener clutched in his hand.
Only at this moment did he realize that he held the opener in his wrong hand.

The demon looked up, and it was a lazy, smooth motion, as if the demon himself was sleeping, or far
underwater. It regarded the charging youth, hand raised in a clumsy attack with a short, sharp dagger.
The demon smiled. Medivh shifted and muttered in his sleep. Khadgar drove the letter opener into the
demon’s chest.

 And through the creature’s body entirely. The thrust of his blow carried him forward, through the form of
Sargeras, and sent him spinning toward the opposite wall. Unable to stop, he slammed into the wall, and
the letter opener jangled to the stone floor.

Medivh’s eyes popped open, and the Guardian sat up. “Moroes? Khadgar? Are you here?”

 Khadgar pulled himself to his feet, looking around. The demon had vanished, popped like a soap bubble
at the first touch of steel. He was alone in the room with Medivh.

“What are you doing on the floor, lad?” said Medivh. “Moroes could have gotten you a cot.”

 “Master, your wards!” said Khadgar. “They have failed. There was…” he stumbled for a moment,
unsure that he should reveal he knew Sargeras by appearance. Medivh would catch something like that,
and pester him until he revealed how he knew it.

“A demon,” he managed. “There was a demon here.”

 Medivh smiled, looking well rested, the color returning to his face. “A demon? I think not. Hold.” The
Magus closed his eyes and nodded. “No, the wards are still in place. It would take more than a catnap
for them to run out of energy. What did you see?”

 Quickly Khadgar recounted the appearance of the demon from the cloud of boiling red milk, of it
standing there, of it raising its hand. The Magus shook his head.

 “I think that was another one of your visions,” he said at last. “Some bit of time unstuck and displaced
that fell into the tower, quickly banished.”

“But the demon…” started Khadgar.

 “The demon you described is no more, at least no more in this life,” said Medivh. “He was slain before I
was born, buried far beneath the sea. Your vision was of Sargeras, from ‘The Song of Aegwynn.’ You
have the scrolls there. Deciphering messages? Yes. Perhaps that’s what called that timelost wraith into
my quarters. You should not be doing work here while I slept.” He frowned slightly, as if he was thinking
if he should be more upset or not.

“I’m sorry, I thought…I thought it would be best to not leave you alone?” Khadgar twisted it into a
question, and it sounded a bit foolish.

 Medivh chuckled and let a smile creep across his weathered features. “Well, I didn’t say you couldn’t,
and I don’t suppose Moroes would have stopped you, since that would reduce his need to be here.” He
rubbed a finger and thumb over his lips and through his beard. “I think I’ve had enough broth for one
lifetime. And just to reassure you, Iwill check the tower’s mystic wards. And show you how to do it as
well. Now, aside from demon visions, did anything happen while I was gone?”

Khadgar summarized the messages he had received. The rising tide of orc incidents. Lothar’s map. The
mystery message about the Emissary. And the news of Guzbah’s death.
Medivh grunted at the description of Guzbah’s passing, and said, “So they’re going to blame Guzbah
until the next poor sod gets sliced open.” He shook his head, then added, “Feast of the Scribes. That
would be before Huglar and Hugarin died.”

“By about a week and a half,” said Khadgar. “Time enough for a demon to fly from Dalaran to
Stormwind Keep.”

 “Or a man on gryphon-back,” mused Medivh. “It’s not all demons and magic in this world. Sometimes a
simpler answer suffices. Anything else?”

 “It sounds like these orcs are becoming much more numerous and dangerous,” said Khadgar. “Lothar
says they are moving from caravan raids to attacks on settlements. Small ones, but there are more people
coming into Stormwind and the other cities all the time as a result.

“Lothar worries too much,” said Medivh with a grimace.

“He’s concerned,” said Khadgar flatly. “He doesn’t know what to expect next.”

 “On the contrary,” said Medivh, letting out a long, mournful sigh. “If everything you tell me is true, then
I’m afraid things are goingjust the way I expected!”


 Ten
 The Emissary
 With Medivh’s recovery things returned to normal, or as normal as anything was in the presence of the
Magus. When the Magus was absent, Khadgar was left with instructions as to honing his magical skill,
and when Medivh was in residence in the tower, the younger mage was expected to demonstrate those
skills at the drop of hat.

 Khadgar adapted well, and felt as if his power was a set of clothes, two sizes too big, that only now was
he growing into. He could control fire at will now, summon lightning without a cloud in the sky, and cause
small items to dance upon the table at the will of his own mind. He learned other spells as well—those
that allowed one to know when and how a man died from a single bone of his remains, how to cause a
ground-fog to rise, and how to leave magical messages for others to find. He learned how to restore the
age lost to an inanimate object, strengthening an old chair, and its reverse, to pull all the youth from a
newly-crafted club, leaving it dusty and brittle. He learned the nature of the protective wards, and was
entrusted with keeping them intact. He learned the library of demons, though Medivh would not permit
any to be summoned in his tower. This last order Khadgar had no desire to break.

 Medivh was gone for brief periods of a day here, a few days there. Always instructions were left behind,
but never explanations. Upon his return the Guardian looked more haggard and worn, and would push
Khadgar testily to determine the youth’s mastery over his craft, and to detail any news that had arrived in
his absence. But there was no further repeat of his comatose rest, and Khadgar assumed that whatever
the master was doing, it did not involve demons.

 One evening in the library, Khadgar heard noises from the common area and stables below. Shouts,
challenges, and responses, in low, illegible tones. By the time he reached a window overlooking that part
of the castle, a group of riders were leaving the tower’s walls.
Khadgar frowned. Were these some supplicants turned away by Moroes, or messengers with some
other dark tidings for his master? Khadgar descended the tower to find out.

 He caught sight of the new arrival only briefly—a flash of a black cloak stepping into a guest room along
the lower levels of the tower. Moroes was there, candle in hand, blinders in place, and as Khadgar
slipped down the last few steps he could hear the castellan say “…Other visitors, they were less careful.
They’re gone now.”

Whatever response the new arrival made was lost, and Moroes pulled the door shut as Khadgar came
up.

“A guest?” asked the young man, trying to see if there was any clue of the new arrival behind him. Only
a closed door greeted his view.

“Ayep,” replied the castellan.

“Mage or merchant?” asked the young mage.

 “Couldn’t say,” said the castellan, already moving down the hall. “Didn’t ask, and the Emissary didn’t
say.”

 “The Emissary,” repeated Khadgar, thinking of one of the mystery letters from Medivh’s great sleep.
“So it’s political, then. For the Magus.”

“Assume so,” said Moroes. “Didn’t ask. Not my place.”

“So it is for the Magus,” said Khadgar.

“Assume so,” said Moroes, with the same sleepy inflection. “We’ll be told when we need to know.”
And with that he was gone, leaving Khadgar to stare at the shut door.

 For the next day, there was the odd feeling of another presence in the tower, a new planetary body
whose very gravity changed the orbits of all the others. This new planet caused Cook to shift to a larger
set of pans, and Moroes to move through the halls at more random times than normal. And even Medivh
himself would send Khadgar on some errand within the tower, and as the young mage left he would hear
the whisper of a heavy cloak on the stonework behind him.

 Medivh volunteered nothing, and Khadgar waited to be told. He dropped hints. He waited patiently.
Instead he was sent to the library to continue his studies and practice his spells. Khadgar descended the
curved stairs for half a rotation, stopped, then slowly climbed back up, only to see the back of a black
cloak glide into the Guardian’s laboratory.

 Khadgar stomped down the stairs, considering options of who the Emissary was. A spy for Lothar?
Some secretive member of the Order? Perhaps one of the members from the Kirin Tor, the one with the
spidery handwriting and the venomous theories? Or maybe some other matter entirely? Not knowing was
frustrating, and not being trusted by the Magus seemed to make matters worse.

“We’ll be told when we need to know,” Khadgar muttered, stomping into the library. His notes and
histories were scattered on the tables, where he left them last. He looked at them, and the schematics of
his vision-summoning spell. He had made a few amendments since his last attempt, hoping to temporally
refine its results.

 Khadgar looked at the notes and smiled. Then he picked up his vials of crushed gemstones, and headed
downward—putting additional floors between himself and Medivh’s audience chamber—to one of the
abandoned dining halls.

Two levels lower was perfect. An ellipsoid of a room with stone fireplaces at each end, the great table
put into service elsewhere, the ancient chairs lined across the wall from the single entrance. The floor was
white marble, old and cracked but kept clean by Moroes’s relentless industry and drive.

 Khadgar laid out a magic circle of amethyst and rose quartz, still grinning as he laid out the lines. He was
confident in his castings now, and did not need his ceremonial conjuration robes for luck. As he laid out
the pattern of protection and abjuration, he smiled again. He was already shaping the energy within his
mind, calling the required shades and types of magic, conforming them to their requisite shape, holding
that fertile energy in abeyance until it was needed.

 He stepped within the circle, spoke the words that needed to be spoken, made the motions with his
hands in perfect harmony, and unleashed the energy within his mind. He felt the release as something
connected within his mind and soul, and he called the magic forth.

 “Show me what is happening in Medivh’s quarters,” he said, his mind giving off a nervous tic, hoping that
the Guardian’s wards did not apply to his apprentice.

 Immediately, he knew the spell had gone wrong. Not in a major fashion, with the magical matrices
collapsing upon themselves, but in a slight misfire. Perhaps the wards did work against him, redirecting his
vision elsewhere, to another scene.

 He knew he was off by several clues. First off, it was now daylight, Second, it was warm. And last, the
location was familiar.

 He had not been here before, exactly, at least not in this particular spire, but it was clear he was at
Stormwind Keep, overlooking the city below. This was one of the taller spires, and the room was similar
in general design to that where the two members of the Order had met their end months earlier. Yet here
the windows were large and opened onto great white parapets, and a warm scented breeze stirred
diaphanous draperies. Multicolored birds perched within golden hoops around the perimeter of the room.

 Before Khadgar a small table was set with white porcelain plates edged with gold, the knifes and forks
made of the precious metal as well. Crystal bowls held fruits—fresh and unblemished, the morning dew
still clinging to the dimples of the strawberries. Khadgar felt his stomach rumble slightly at the sight.

 Around the table hovered a thin man unknown to Khadgar, narrow-faced and wide-foreheaded, with a
slender moustache and goatee. He was draped in an ornate red quilt that Khadgar realized must be a
dressing gown, cinched at the waist with a golden belt. He touched one of the forks, moving it a
molecule’s length sideways, then nodded in satisfaction. He looked up at Khadgar and smiled.

“Ah, you are awake,” he said in a voice that almost sounded familiar to Khadgar as well.

 For an instant, Khadgar thought that this vision could see him, but no, the man was addressing someone
behind him. He turned to see Aegwynn, as youthful and beautiful as she had been on the snowfield. (Was
it earlier than that date? Later? He could not tell from her appearance.) She wore a white cape with
green lining, but this was made of silk now, not fur, and her feet were shod not in boots but in simple
white sandals. Her blond hair was held in place with a silver diadem.

“You seem to have gone to a great deal of trouble,” she said, and her face was unreadable to Khadgar.

“With sufficient magic and desire, nothing is impossible,” said the man, and turned over his hand, palm
upward. Floating above his palm, a white orchid bloomed.

 Aegwynn took the flower, raised it perfunctorily to her nose, then set it down on the table. “Nielas…”
she began.

“Breakfast first,” said the mage Nielas. “See what a court conjurer may whip up first thing in the
morning. These berries were picked from the royal gardens not more than a hour ago….”

“Nielas,” Aegwynn said again.

“Followed by slices of butter-fed ham and syrup,” continued the mage.

“Nielas,” Aegwynn repeated.

“Then perhaps some eggs of thevrocka, poached at the table in the shells by a simple spell I learned out
on the isles…” said the mage.

“I am leaving,” said Aegwynn, simply.

A cloud passed over the mage’s face. “Leaving? So soon? Before breakfast? I mean, I thought we
would have a chance to talk further.”

 “I am leaving,” said Aegwynn. “I have my own tasks to complete, and little time for the pleasantries of
the morning afterward.”

 The court conjurer still looked confused. “I thought that after last night you would want to remain in the
castle, at Stormwind, for a while.” He blinked at the woman, “Wouldn’t you?”

“No,” said Aegwynn. “Indeed, after last night, there is no need for me to remain at all. I have attained
what I have come here for. There is no need for me to stay any longer.”

 In the present, Khadgar winced as the pieces fell into place. Of course the mage’s voice sounded
familiar.

“But I thought…” stammered the mage Nielas, but the Guardian shook her head.

“You, Nielas Aran, are an idiot,” said Aegwynn simply. “You are one of the mightiest sorcerers in the
Order of Tirisfal, and yet, you remain an idiot. That says something about the rest of the Order.”

Nielas Aran bridled. He meant to look irritated, but only looked petulant. “Now, wait a moment….”

 “Surely you did not think that your natural charms alone brought me to your chamber, nor that your wit
and sense of whimsy distracted me from our discussion of conjuration rites? Surely you realize that I
cannot be impressed by your position as court conjurer like some village cowherd would? And surely
you must realize that seduction works both ways? You are notthat big an idiot, are you, Nielas Aran?”
 “Of course not,” said the court conjurer, clearly stung by her words but refusing to admit it. “I just
thought that, like civilized people, we might share a moment of breakfast.”

 Aegwynn smiled, and Khadgar saw that it was a cruel smile. “I am as old as many dynasties, and got
over my girlish indulgences early in my first century. I knew fully what I was doing coming to your
chambers last night.”

“I thought…” said Nielas. “I just thought…” He struggled for the right words.

 “That you, of all the Order, would be the one to charm and tame the great, wild Guardian?” said
Aegwynn, the smile growing wider. “That you could break her to your will, where all the others had
failed, through your charm and wit and parlor tricks? Harness the power of theTirisfalen to your own
chariot? Come now, Nielas Aran. You have wasted much of your potential as it is, do not tell me that life
in the royal court has corrupted you utterly. Leave me some respect for you.”

“But if you weren’t impressed,” said Nielas, his mind wrapping around what Aegwynn was saying, “if
you didn’t want me, then why did we…”

 Aegwynn provided the answer. “I came to Stormwind for one thing I could not provide for myself, a
suitable father to my heir. Yes, Nielas Aran, you can tell your fellow mages in the Order that you
managed to bed the great and mighty Guardian. But you will also have to tell them that you provided me
with a way of passing on my power without the Order having any further say in it.”

“I did?” The results of his actions began to sink in. “I suppose I did. But the Order would not like…”

 “To be manipulated? To be countered? To be fooled?” said Aegwynn. “No, they will not. But they will
not act against you, for fear that I truly do have some romantic interest in you. And take this solace—of
all the mages, wizards, conjurers, and sorcerers, you were the one with the most potential. Your seed will
protect and strengthen my child and make him the vessel for my power. And when he is born and
weaned, you will even raise him, here, for I know he will follow my path, and even the Order would not
want to miss that opportunity to influence him.”

 Nielas Aran shook his head. “But I…” He stopped for moment. “But did you…” He stopped again. At
last when he spoke, there was finally some fire in his eyes, and steel in his voice. “Good-bye, Magna
Aegwynn.”

 “Good-bye, Nielas Aran,” said Aegwynn. “It has been…pleasant.” And with that she turned on her heel
and was gone from the room.

 Nielas Aran, chief conjurer to the throne of Azeroth, conspirator in the Order of Tirisfal, and now father
to the future Guardian Medivh, sat by the perfectly set table. He picked up a golden fork, turned it over
and over in his fingers. Then he sighed, and dropped it on the floor.

The vision faded before the fork struck the marble floor, but Khadgar was aware of another noise, this
one behind him. The sound of a boot scraping against cold stone. The soft scraping of a cloak. He was
not alone.

 Khadgar wheeled, but all he caught was a tantalizing glimpse of a black cloak’s back. The Emissary was
spying on him. Bad enough he was sent away each time Medivh met with the stranger—now the
Emissary had run of the castle and was spying on him!
At once, Khadgar was on his feet and rushing for the entrance. By the time he reached the doorway, his
prey was gone, but there was the sound of fabric brushing along stone down the stairs. Down toward the
guest quarters.

 Khadgar barreled forward down the stairs as well. The curve of the stairs would keep her to the outside
rim, where the footing was broader and more sure. The younger mage had raced up and down these
steps so many times he deftly danced down along the inner wall, skipping the stairs in twos and threes.

 Halfway to the guest level Khadgar could see his prey’s shadow against the outer wall. As he reached
the guest level itself he could see the cloaked figure, moving swiftly out through the archway and toward
its door. Once the Emissary reached the guest quarters, he would lose his chance. Khadgar vaulted the
last four steps in a single bound, and leapt forward to grasp the cloaked figure by the arm.

 His hand closed on fabric and firm muscle, and he spun his prey toward the wall. “The Magus will want
to know you’re spying….” he began, but the words died in his mouth as the cloak fell open to reveal the
Emissary.

She was dressed in traveling leathers, with high laced boots and black trousers and black silk blouse.
She was well-muscled, and Khadgar had no doubt that she had ridden the entire way here. But her skin
was green, and as the hood fell back it revealed a jut-jawed, fanged orcish face. Tall greenish ears poked
up from the mass of ebony hair.

“Orc!” shouted Khadgar, and reacted with an automatic response. He raised a hand, muttering a word
of power, summoning the forces to drive a bolt of mystic power through her.

 He never had the chance to finish. At the first opening of his mouth, the orc woman lashed out with a
roundhouse kick, bringing her leg up to chest level. Her knee brushed aside Khadgar’s pointing hand,
forcing his aim off. Her booted foot slammed into the side of Khadgar’s cheek, staggering him.

 Khadgar staggered back and tasted blood—he must have bitten his cheek as a result of the blow. He
raised his hand again to fire a bolt, but the orc was still too fast, faster than the armor-bound warriors he
had fought earlier. Already she had closed the distance between them, driving a hard fist into his stomach,
driving the wind from his lungs and the concentration from his mind.

 The young mage snarled, abandoning magic for the moment in favor of a more direct approach. Still
smarting from the blow, he spun to one side, grasping the woman’s arm and pulling her off-balance. A
surprised look crossed the woman’s jade-shaded face, but only for a moment. She planted her feet firmly
on the ground, pulled Khadgar toward her, and neatly broke and reversed the hold.

 Khadgar caught a whiff of spices as he was drawn close to the orc, and then she threw him, bodily,
down the hallway. He slid along the stone floor, bumping into the wall and at last coming to rest at
someone else’s feet.

Looking up, Khadgar saw the castellan looking down on him, a look of vague concern on his face.

“Moroes!” shouted Khadgar. “Get back! Fetch the Magus! We have an orc in the tower!”

 Moroes did not move, but instead looked up at the orcish woman with his bland, blinkered eyes. “You
all right, Emissary?”

The woman smirked, her greenish lips tucked back, and wrapped her cloak around herself. “Never
better. Needed a little exercise. The whelp was kind enough to oblige.”

“Moroes!” spat the younger mage. “This woman is…”

 “The Emissary. A guest of the Magus,” said Moroes, adding blandly, “Came to get you. Magus wants to
see you.”

Khadgar pulled himself to his feet and looked sharply at the Emissary. “When you see the Magus,
you’re going to tell him you’re snooping around?”

“Doesn’t want to see her,” corrected Moroes. “Wants to see you, Apprentice.”



“She’s an orc!” said Khadgar, louder and harsher than he meant to.

 “Half-orc, really,” said Medivh. He was bent over his workbench, fiddling with a golden device, an
astrolabe. “I surmise her homeland has humans, or near-humans, or at least had them within living
memory. Hand me the calipers, Apprentice.”

“They tried to kill you!” shouted Khadgar.

“Orcs, you mean? Some did, true,” said Medivh calmly.“Some orcs tried to kill me. And kill you as well.
Garona wasn’t in that group. I don’t think she was, at any rate. She’s here as a representative for her
people. Or at least some of her people.”

 Garona. So the witch has a name,thought Khadgar. Instead he said, “We were attacked by orcs. I had a
vision of attacks of orcs. I have been reading the communications from all over Azeroth, speaking of
raids and attacks by orcs. Every mention of orcs speaks of their cruelty and violence. There seem to be
more of them every day. This is a dangerous and savage race.”

“And she dispatched you easily, I assume,” said Medivh, looking up from his work.

 Despite himself, Khadgar touched the corner of his mouth, where the blood had already dried. “That is
completely beside the point.”

“Completely,” said Medivh. “And your point would be?”

“She is an orc. She is dangerous. And you have given her free rein in the tower.”

 Medivh grumbled, and there was steel in his voice. “She is a half-orc. She is about as dangerous as you
are, given the situation and inclination. And she is my guest and should be accorded all the respect of a
guest. I expect this from you regarding my guests, Young Trust.”

Khadgar was silent for a moment, then tried a new approach. “She is the Emissary.”

“Yes.”

“Who is she the emissaryfor?”

“One or more of the clans that are currently inhabiting the Black Morass,” said Medivh. “I’m not quite
sure which ones, yet. We haven’t gotten that far.”

Khadgar blinked in surprise. “You let her into our tower, and she has no official standing?”

 Medivh laid down the calibers and gave out a weary sigh. “She has presented herself to me as a
representative of some of the orc clans that are presently raiding Azeroth. If this matter is going to be
solved by any manner other than by fire and the sword, then someone has to start talking. Here is as
good a place as any.And, by the way, this is consideredmy tower, not ours. You are my student here, my
apprentice, and are here at my whim. And as my student, as my apprentice, I expect you to keep an
open mind.”

 There was a silence as Khadgar tried to let this sink in. “So she represents whom? Some, none, or all of
the orcs?”

 “She represents, for the moment, herself,” said Medivh, letting out an irritated sigh. “Not all humans
believe the same thing. There is no reason to believe that all orcs do, either. My question for you is, given
your natural curiosity, why aren’t you already trying to pull as much information out of her as possible,
instead of telling me I should not do the same? Unless you doubt me and my abilities to handle a single
half-orc?”

 Khadgar was silent, doubly embarrassed both for his actions and for failing to see another way. Was he
doubting Medivh? Was there even a chance that the Magus would act in a fashion not to uphold his
Order? The thoughts churned within him, fueled by Lothar’s words, the vision of the demon, and the
politics of the Order. He wanted to warn the older man, but every word seemed to be turned back
against him.

“I worry about you, at times,” he said at last.

 “And I worry about you as well,” said the older mage, distractedly. “I seem to worry about a lot of
things these days.”

Khadgar had to make one last attempt. “Sir, I think this Garona is a spy,” he said, simply. “I think she is
here to learn as much as she can, to be used against you later.”

Medivh leaned back and gave the young man a wicked smile. “That is very much the pot calling the
kettle black, young mageling. Or have you forgotten the list of things your own masters of the Kirin Tor
wanted you to wheedle out of me when you first got to Karazhan?”

Khadgar’s ears were burning crimson as he left the room.


 Eleven
 Garona
He returned to his (well, Medivh’s) library to find her going over his notes. An immediate rage
blossomed in his chest, but the sting of her blows, and Medivh’s chastisement, kept his anger in check.

“What are you doing?” he still said sharply.
 Emissary Garona’s fingers danced up from the papers. “Snooping, I believe you called it? Spying?” She
looked up, a frown on her face. “Actually, I’m just trying to understand what you’re doing here. It was
left out in the open. Hope that is all right with you.”

 It is NOT all right with me,thought Khadgar, but instead he said, “Lord Medivh has instructed me to
extend to you every courtesy. However, he may take umbrage if, in doing so, I allow you to blow
yourself up in casting some ill-thought magical spell.”

 Garona’s face was impassive, but Khadgar noted that she did lift her fingers from the pages. “I have no
interest in magic.”

 “Famous last words,” said Khadgar. “Is there something here I can help you with, or are you just
snooping in general, seeing what you can come up with?”

“I was told you had a tome on Azeroth’s kings,” she said, “I would like to consult it.”

“You can read?” asked Khadgar. It sounded harsher than he meant it. “Sorry. I meant to say…”

 “Yes, surprisingly, I can read,” said Garona, quickly and officiously. “I have picked up many talents over
the years.”

 Khadgar scowled. “Second row, fourth shelf up. It’s a red-bound book with gold trim.” Garona
disappeared into the stacks, and Khadgar took the opportunity to gather up his notes from the table. He
would have to keep them elsewhere if the half-orc had free run of the place. At least it wasn’t Order
correspondence—even Medivh would have a fit if he turned over ‘The Song of Aegwynn’ to her.

 His eyes went to the section where the scroll used as the key was kept. From where he was standing it
looked undisturbed. No need to cause a scene here, but he would probably have to move it as well.

Garona returned with a massive tome in her hand, and raised a heavy eyebrow at Khadgar, forming a
question. “Yes, that’s the one,” said the apprentice.

“Human languages are a bit…wordy,” she said, setting the tome down in the empty space that
previously held Khadgar’s notes.

“Only because we always have something to say,” said Khadgar, trying to manage a smile. He
wondered, did orcs have books? Did they read at all? They had spellcasters, of course, but did that
mean they had any real knowledge?

“I hope I wasn’t too hard on you, earlier in the hall.” Her tone was glib, and Khadgar was sure that she
would rather have seen him spit out a tooth. Probably this was what passed for an apology among the
orcs.

“Never better,” said Khadgar. “I needed the exercise.”

 Garona sat down and started pouring through the text. Khadgar noticed that she moved her lips as she
read, and she had immediately turned toward the back of the book, to the recent additions about King
Llane’s reign.

 Now, not in the immediate fire of combat, he could see that Garona was not the standard orc he had
fought earlier. She was lean and well-muscled, unlike the lumpy, rough brutes he had battled at the
caravan site. Her skin was smoother, almost human, and a lighter shade of green than the jade flesh of the
orcs themselves. Her fangs were a bit smaller, and her eyes were a bit larger, more expressive than the
hard crimson orbs of the orc warriors. He wondered how much of this was from her human heritage and
how much from being female. He wondered if any of the orcs he had fought earlier were female—it was
not obvious, and he had no desire to check at the time.

 Indeed, without the green flesh, the disfigured, tusked face, and the hostile, superior attitude she might
almost be attractive. Still, she was inhis library, and going throughhis books (well, Medivh’s library, and
Medivh’s books, but the Magus had entrusted them tohim).

 “So you are an Emissary,” he said at last. He tried to keep his words light and conversational. “I was
told of your impending arrival.”

The half-orc nodded, concentrating on the words before her.

“Who are you emissaringfor, exactly?”

 Garona looked up, and Khadgar saw a flicker of irritation beneath her heavy brows. Khadgar felt good
about bothering her, but at the same time wondered where the woman drew the line. He did not want to
push too hard or too fast, lest he earn another beating, or another curt dismissal by the Magus.

At least this time he would get some information out before the battle. He said, “I mean, if you’re the
Emissary, that means that someone is giving you orders, someone is pulling your strings, someone you
have to report back to. Whom do you represent?”

 “I’m sure your Master, the Old Man, would tell you, if you asked,” said Garona smoothly, but her eyes
remained hard.

“I’m sure he would,” Khadgar lied. “If I had the effrontery to ask him. So I ask you instead. Whom do
you represent? What powers have you been granted? Are you here to negotiate, or demand, or what?”

Garona closed the book (Khadgar felt a small victory in distracting her from her task) and said, “Do all
humans think alike?”

“It would be boring if we did,” said Khadgar.

 “I mean, does everyone agree about everything? Are people always agreeing to what their masters or
superiors want?” said Garona. The hardness in her eyes faded just a touch.

 “Hardly,” said Khadgar. “One reason that there are so many tomes is that everyone has an opinion. And
that is just the literate ones.”

 “So understand that there are differences of opinions among the orcs as well,” said Garona. “The Horde
is made of up of a number of clans, all with their own chieftains and war leaders. All orcs belong to a
clan. Most orcs are loyal to their clan and their chieftain.”

“What are the clans?” asked Khadgar. “What are they called?”

 “Stormreaver is one,” said the half-orc. “Blackrock. Twilight’s Hammer. Bleeding Hollow. Those are
the major ones.”
“Sounds like a warlike bunch,” said Khadgar.

“The homeland of the orc peoples is a harsh place,” said Garona, “and only the strongest and best
organized survive. They are no more than what their land has made them.”

 Khadgar thought of the blasted, red-skied land he had seen in the vision. This was the orcs’ homeland,
then. Some wasteland in another dimension. Yet how did they get here? Instead he said, “So which is
your clan?”

Garona gave a snort that sounded like a bulldog sneezing. “I have no clan.”

“You said all of your people belonged to a clan,” said Khadgar.

“I said allorcs, ” said Garona. When Khadgar looked at her blankly, she held up her hand. “Look at this.
What do you see?”

“Your hand,” said Khadgar.

“Human or orc?”

 “Orc,” said Khadgar. It was obvious to him. Green skin, sharp yellowing nails, knuckles just a shade too
large to be human.

 “An orc would say that it’s a human hand—too slender to be really useful, not enough muscle to hold an
ax or bash a skull in properly—too pale, too weak, and too ugly.” Garona lowered her hand and looked
at the young mage through lowered brows. “You see the parts of me that are orcish. My orcish
superiors, and all other orcs, see the parts of me that are human. I am both, and neither, and considered
an inferior being by both sides.”

Khadgar opened his mouth to argue, but thought twice of the matter and kept silent. His first reaction
was to strike out at the orc he had found in the halls, not to see the human that was Medivh’s guest. He
nodded and said, “It must be difficult, then. Without a clan allegiance.”

 “I have turned it to my advantage,” said Garona. “I can move between the clans more easily. As a lesser
creature, I am assumed to not be always looking for an advantage to my native clan. I am disliked by all,
so therefore I am not biased. Some chieftains find that reassuring. It makes me a better negotiator, and
before you say it, a better spy. But better to have no allegiance than conflicting ones.”

 Khadgar thought of Medivh’s own castigation of his Kirin Tor ties, but said, “And which clan do you
represent at the moment?”

Garona gave a wry, fanged smile. “If I said Gizblah the Mighty, what would you say? Or perhaps I am
on a mission for Morgax the Gray or Hikapik the Blood-render. Would that tell you enough?”

“It might,” said Khadgar.

 “It wouldn’t,” said Garona, “because I made up all those names, just now. And the name of the faction
that has sent me here would mean nothing to you either, not at the moment. Similarly, the Old Man’s
stated friendship with King Llane means nothing to our chieftains, and the name Lothar is nothing more
than a curse invoked by the human peasants we encounter. Before we can have peace, before we can
even start negotiating, we have to learn more about you.”
“Which is why you’re here.”

 Garona let out a deep sigh. “Which is why I am praying that you will leave me alone long enough so I
can figure out what the Old Man is talking about when we have our discussions.”

 Khadgar was silent for a moment. Garona opened the volume again, leafing through the pages to where
she had stopped. “Of course, that goes both ways,” Khadgar said, and Garona closed the book with an
exasperated breath. “I mean, we need to know more about the orcs if we’re going to do more than just
battle them. If you’re serious about peace.”

 Garona glared at Khadgar, and for a moment the young mage wondered if the half-orc was going to
leap across the table and throttle him. Instead, her ears perked up, and she said, “Hold on. What’s that?”

 Khadgar felt it before he heard it. A sudden change in the air, like a window had been opened elsewhere
in the tower. A bit of wind stirring up the dust in the hall. A wave of warmth passing through the tower.

Khadgar said, “Something is…”

Garona said, “I heard…”

 And then Khadgar heard it as well, the sound of iron claws scraping against stone, and the warmth of the
air increased as the hairs on the back of his neck rose.

And the great beast slouched into the library.

 It was made of fire and shadow, its skin dark and containing the flickers of the flame within. Its wolflike
face was framed by a set of ram’s horns, that glowed like polished ebony. It looked biped, but walked
on all fours, its long front claws scraping along the stone floors.

“What is…” hissed Garona.

“Demon,” said Khadgar in a strangled voice, rising and backing away from the table.

“Your manservant said there were visions here. Ghosts. Is this one?” Garona stood up as well.

Khadgar wanted to explain no, that visions tended to encompass the area entirely, shifting you to the
new place, but he instead he just shook his head.

 The beast itself was perched in the doorway, sniffing the air. The creature’s eyes blazed with flame. Was
the beast blind, and could only detect by scent? Or was it detecting a new thing in the air, a spice that it
had not expected?

Khadgar tried to pull the energies into his mind, but at first his heart quailed and his mind went empty.
The beast continued to sniff, turning in place until it faced the pair.

“Get to the high tower,” said Khadgar quietly. “We have to warn Medivh.” Out of the corner of his eye
he saw Garona nod, but her eyes did not leave the beast. A trickle of sweat dropped down her long
neck. She shifted slightly to one side.

The movement was enough, and everything happened at once. The beast crouched and leapt across the
room. Khadgar’s mind cleared, and with a quick efficiency he pulled the energies into himself, raised his
hand, and buried a bolt of mystic energy into the creature’s chest. The energy ripped through the beast’s
chest and splattered out its back, sending pieces of flaming flesh in all directions, but it did not deter it in
the slightest.

 It landed on the study table, its claws digging into the hardwood, and bounded again, this time for
Khadgar. The young mage’s mind went blank for a second, but a second was all it took for the
slope-shouldered demon to close the distance between them.

 Something else grabbed him and yanked him out of the way. He smelled musky cinnamon and heard a
deep-throated curse as he spun out of the path of the loping demon. The beast sailed through the space
that until recently had been occupied by the apprentice, and let out a scream of its own. A long ragged
tear had appeared along the creature’s left side, and was oozing burning blood.

 Garona released Khadgar from her grip (a weak, humanish grip, but still enough to drive the air from his
lungs). In her other hand, the apprentice noticed that Garona held a long-bladed knife, crimson with its
first strike, and Khadgar wondered where she had hid it while they were arguing.

 The creature landed, wheeled, and tried to make an immediate, clumsy second assault, its iron-shod
talons outstretched, its mouth and eyes blazing with flame. Khadgar ducked, then came up with the heavy
red volume ofThe Lineage of Azeroth’s Kings. He hefted the massive tome into the creature’s face, then
ducked again. The beast sailed past him, landing back near the door. It let out a retching, choking noise,
and shook his ramhorned head to dislodge the weighty grimoire. Khadgar saw there was a line of burning
blood etched along the creature’s right side. Garona had struck a second time.

“Get Medivh,” shouted Khadgar. “I’ll get it away from the door.”

 “What if it wants me, instead?” responded Garona, and for the first time, Khadgar heard a ripple of fear
in her voice.

“It doesn’t,” said Khadgar grimly. “It kills mages.”

“But you…”

“Just go,” said Khadgar.

Khadgar broke to the left, and, true to his fears, the demon followed him. Instead of heading toward the
door. Garona broke for the right, and started climbing the far bookcase.

“Get Medivh!” shouted Khadgar, darting down one of the rows of books.

“No time,” responded Garona, still climbing. “See if you can delay it in one of the rows.”

 Khadgar turned at the far end of the long bookshelves, and turned. The demon had already leapt over
the study table and was now prowling down the row between the bookcases, between histories and
geographies. In the shadow between the rows the creature’s flaming eyes and mouth stood out in stark
relief, and acrid smoke now roiled from its wounded sides.

 Khadgar cleared his mind, stuffed down his fear, and fired off a mystic bolt. A globe of fire or a shard of
lightning might be more effective, but the beast was surrounded by his books.
The bolt smashed into the creature’s face, staggering it back a pace. It growled and crept forward again.

He repeated the process like a ritual—clear the mind, fight the fear, raise a hand, and invoke the word.
Another bolt splanged off its ebony horns, ricocheting upward. The beast halted, but only for a moment.
Now its maw seemed a twisted, flame-filled smile.

 A third time he invoked the power of the mystic bolt, but now the creature was close, and it flashed in its
face, but save for illuminating its amused features, did nothing. Khadgar smelled its sour, burning flesh,
and heard a deep clicking within the beast’s throat—laughter?

“Get ready to run!” shouted Garona, from somewhere to his right and above.

“What are you…” started Khadgar, already backing up.

“Run!”she shouted, and pushed off with her feet. The half-orc had climbed to the top of the bookcases,
and now shoved them apart, toppling the cases like giant dominos. A deep crash of thunder resounded
as each bookcase tipped over its neighbor, spilling volumes and crushing everything in its path.

 The last bookcase smashed against the wall and splintered, the force of the impact driving it to the
ground. Garona slid down from her now wobbling perch, long-bladed knife drawn. She tried to peer
through the churning dust.

“Khadgar?” she said.

“Here,” said the apprentice, plastered against the back wall, where the iron pedestals rose to support the
upper stacks on the balcony above. His face was pale even for a human.

“Did we get it?” she demanded, still in a half-crouch, expecting a new assault at any moment.

 Khadgar pointed to the edge of what was until seconds before the end of the row of shelves. Now the
entire lower floor was a ruins of shattered cases and ruined volumes. Reaching out of the tattered
wreckage was a muscular, mangled arm made of dull flame and twisted shadow. Its iron claws were
already red with rust, and warm blood was already pooling on the floor. Its outstretched hand was a
mere foot from where Khadgar splayed himself.

“Got it,” said Garona, sliding the knife back into sheath beneath her blouse.

“You should have listened,” said Khadgar, choking on the dust. “Should have gotten Medivh.”

“It would have sliced you open before I got up two flights of stairs,” said the half-orc. “And then who
would be left to explain things to the Old Man?”

Khadgar nodded, and then a thought furrowed his brow. “The Magus. Did he hear this?”

Garona nodded in agreement. “He should have come down. We made enough noise here to wake the
dead.”

“No,” said Khadgar, heading for the entrance to the library. “What if there was more than one demon?
Come on!”

Without thinking, Garona drew her knife and followed the human out of the room.
 They found Medivh sitting in his laboratory, at the same workbench that Khadgar had left him no more
than an hour previously. Now the golden instrument he was working on was in twisted pieces, and an
iron hammer rested at one side of the bench.

Medivh started when Khadgar burst into the room, followed closely by Garona. The apprentice
wondered, had he been dozing through all this?

“Master! There is a demon in the tower!” blurted Khadgar.

 “A demon, again?” said Medivh wearily, rubbing one eye with the flat of his palm. “It was a demon the
first time. The last time it was an orc.”

“Your student is correct,” said Garona. “I was in the library with him when it attacked. Large creature,
bestial, but cunning. Made of fire and darkness, and its wounds burned and smoked.”

“It was probably nothing more than another vision,” said Medivh, turning back to his work. He picked
up a mangled piece of the device and looked at it, as if seeing it for the first time. “They happen here, the
visions. I think Moroes warned you about them.”

“It was not a vision, Master,” said Khadgar. “It was a demon, of the type you fought at Stormwind
Keep. Something has gotten past the wards and attacked us.”

Medivh’s gray brows arched in suspicion. “Something get past my wards again? Ridiculous.” He closed
his eyes and traced a symbol in the air, “No. Nothing is amiss. None of the wards are tripped. You are
here. Cook is in the kitchen, and Moroes is in the hall outside the library right now.”

Khadgar and Garona exchanged a glance. Khadgar said, “Then you should come at once, Master.”

“Must I?” said Medivh. “I have other things to worry about, of this I’m sure.”

“Come and see,” said Khadgar.

“We believe the beast to be dead,” said Garona. “But we don’t want to risk the lives of your servants on
our beliefs.”

Medivh looked at the smashed device, shook his head, and set it down. He seemed irritated by it. “As
you wish. Apprentices are not supposed to be this much trouble.”

 By the time they reached the library, however, Moroes was standing there, dustpan and broom in hand,
surveying the damage. He looked up, slightly lost, as the two mages and the half-orc entered.

“Congratulations,” said Medivh, the lines of his frown cutting deeply across his face. “I think it’s a bigger
mess now than when you first arrived. At least then I had shelving. Where is this supposed demon?”

 Khadgar walked over to where the demon’s hand had jutted out, but now all that remained was one of
the bookcases pressed flat on the floor. Even the blood was missing.

“It was here,” said Garona, looking as surprised as Khadgar. “It came in, and attacked us.” She grasped
the edge of the case, trying to pry it up, but the massive oak was too heavy for her. After she struggled a
moment, she said, “We both saw it.”

“You saw a vision,” said Medivh sternly. “Didn’t Moroes warn you about this?”

“Ayep,” confirmed Moroes. “I did at that.” He tapped the sides of his blinders for effect.

“Master, it did attack us,” said Khadgar. “We damaged it with our own spells. The Emissary here
wounded it, twice.”

“Hmmph,” grunted the Magus. “More likely you overreacted when you saw it, and did most of the
damage yourselves. These are fresh scratches on the table. From the demon?”

“He had iron claws,” said Khadgar.

 “Or perhaps from your own mystic bolts, flung around like beads at a Stormwind streetfair?” Medivh
shook his head.

“My knife bit into something hard and leathery,” said Garona.

 “No doubt some of the books themselves,” said the Magus. “No, were there a demon, its body would
still be here. Unless someone cleaned it up. Moroes, do you happen to have a demon in your dustbin?”

“Don’t believe so,” said the castellan. “I could check.”

 “Don’t worry, but leave your tools for these two.” To the younger mage and the half-orc he said, “I
expect you to get along. In light of this, you two get to straighten up the library. Young Trust, you have
betrayed your name, and so must make restitution now.”

Garona would not relent, “But I saw—”

 “You saw a phantom,” interrupted Medivh in an authoritative tone, his brows knitted. “You saw a piece
of somewhere else. It would not have harmed you. It never does. Your friend here,” and he motioned at
Khadgar, “tends to see demons where there are none. That worries me a bit. Perhaps you can try not to
see any when you are cleaning up. Until you do, I am not to be disturbed!”

And with that, he was gone. Moroes laid the broom and dustpan on the floor and followed him.

 Khadgar looked around at the debris of the room. More than just a broom would be needed here.
Cases were toppled and in a couple places shattered entirely, and books were flung randomly about,
some with their spines broken and their covers torn. Could it have been a time-lost vision?”

“This was no illusion that attacked us,” said Garona moodily.

“I know,” said Khadgar.

“So why doesn’t he see it?” asked the half-orc.

“That I don’t know,” said the apprentice. “And I worry about finding out the answer.”
 Twelve
 Life in Wartime
 It took only several days to put the library back in proper order. Most of the scattered books were at
least near to where they needed to be, and the rarer, more magical, and trapped volumes were on the
upper balcony and had been untouched by the fracas. Rebuilding some of the cases took time, however,
and Garona and Khadgar turned the empty stables into a makeshift carpentry shop, and they tried to
restore (and in some cases replace) the shattered cases.

 Of the demon, there was no trace, save for the damage wrought. The claw marks remained in the table,
and the pages ofThe Lineage of Azeroth’s Kings were badly mangled and torn, as if by massive jaws.
Yet there was no body, no blood, no remains to drop at Medivh’s feet.

“Maybe it was rescued,” suggested Garona.

 “It was pretty dead when we left it,” responded Khadgar, at the time trying to remember if he had put
epic poetry on the shelf above or below romantic epics.

“Something rescued the body,” said Garona. “The same person who popped it in here would have
popped him out.”

“And the blood as well,” reminded Khadgar.

“And blood as well,” repeated the half-orc. “Perhaps it was a tidy demon.”

“That’s not the way magic works,” said Khadgar.

“Perhaps not your magic, the magic you learned,” said Garona. “Other peoples could have other magics.
The old shamans among the orcs had one way of magic, the warlocks that cast spells have different ones.
Maybe it’s a spell you never heard of.”

 “No,” said Khadgar simply. “It would have left some kind of a marker. A bit of the caster behind. Some
residual energy that I could feel, even if I could not identify it. The only spellcasters active in the tower
have been myself and the Magus. I know that through my own spells. And I checked the wards. Medivh
was right—they were all operating. No one should have been able to break into the tower, magically or
otherwise.”

 Garona shrugged. “But there are odd things about this tower as well, correct? Could the old rules not
apply here?”

It was Khadgar’s turn to shrug. “If that’s the case, we’re in a lot more trouble than I imagined.”

Khadgar’s relationship with the half-orc seemed to improve over the course of repairing the library, and
when his back was to her, or she was in the stacks, her voice sounded almost human. Still, she remained
guarded about whom she represented, and Khadgar for his part remained watchful. He kept track of
what references she used and what questions she asked.

He also tried to keep track of any communications she made, to the point of wrapping the guest quarters
with his own web of detection spells, to inform him if she had left the room or sent word out. If she had,
her methods foiled even Khadgar’s detection, which made him more nervous as opposed to assuring
him. If she was doing anything with the knowledge she had gained, she was keeping it to herself.

 And true to her word, Garona began sharing her own knowledge about the orcs. Khadgar began to
assemble a picture of how the orcs were ruled (by strength and warrior prowess) as well as the different
clans within. Once she got rolling, the Emissary made very clear her opinion of the various clans, whose
leaders she tended to think of as lumpen oafs who are only thinking of where their next battle is coming
from. As she described the multi-clan orcish nation, the Horde, Khadgar quickly understood that the
dynamics were ever-changing and fluid at best.

 A large chunk of the Horde was the conservative Bleeding Hollow clan. A powerful group with a long
history of conquest, the clan was less powerful in that its aged leader, Kilrogg Deadeye, had become
more unwilling to throw lives away in combat. Garona explained that in orcish politics, older orcs become
more pragmatic, which is often mistaken for cowardice by the younger generation. Kilrogg had killed
three of his sons and two grandsons already who thought they could rule the clan better.

 The clan known as the Blackrock appeared to have another large chunk of the Horde, its leader was
Blackhand, who had as his chief recommendation for leader the ability to thump anyone else who wanted
the title. A chunk of Blackrock had already splintered off, knocked out a tooth, and called themselves the
Black Tooth Grin. Charming names.

 There were other clans: Twilight’s Hammer, which reveled in destruction, and the Burning Blade, who
seemed to have no leader, but rather served as an anarchic gathering within the chaos of the Horde. And
smaller clans, like the Stormreavers, that were led by a warlock. Khadgar suspected that Garona was
reporting to someone within the Stormreavers, if only because she had less to complain about with them
than the others.

 Khadgar took what notes he could, and assembled into reports for Lothar. A larger amount of
communications was coming in from all points in Azeroth, and now it seemed that the Horde was spilling
out of the Black Morass in all directions. The orcs that were considered mere rumors a year ago were
now omnipresent, and Stormwind Keep was mobilizing to meet the threat. Khadgar kept the
ever-worsening news from Garona, but fed to Lothar what details he could glean, down to clan rivalries
and favorite colors (The Blackrock clan, for example, favored red for some reason).

 Khadgar also tried to communicate what he had learned to Medivh, but the Magus was surprisingly
disinterested. Indeed, the Magus’s conversations with Garona were not as common as they once were,
and on several occasions Khadgar discovered that Medivh had left the tower without informing him.
Even when he was present, Medivh seemed more distant. More than once Khadgar had come upon him,
seated in one of his chairs in the observatory, staring out into the Azerothean night. He seemed moodier
now, quicker to disagree, and less willing to listen than before.

 His disaffected mood was clear to the others as well. Moroes would give Khadgar a painful,
long-suffering look as he left the master’s chambers. And Garona herself brought up the subject as they
reviewed the maps of the known world (which were made in Stormwind, and as such woefully
incomplete even when talking about Lordaeron).

“Is he always like this?” she asked.

Khadgar responded stoically, “He has many moods.”
“Yes, but when I first encountered him, he seemed alive, engaged, and positive. Now he seems more…”

“Distracted?”

“Addled,” said Garona, twisting her lips in disgust.

 Khadgar could not disagree. Later that evening, Khadgar reported to the Magus a slew of new message
translations, all with the purple seal, all begging for aid against the orcs.

“The orcs are not demons,” said Medivh. “They are flesh and blood, and as such the worry of warriors,
not wizards.”

“The messages are quite dire,” said Khadgar. “It sounds like the lands closest to the Black Morass are
being abandoned, and refugees flooding into Stormwind and the other cities of Azeroth. They are
pressed thin.”

“And so they depend on the Guardian to ride to their rescue. Bad enough I must guard the watchtowers
on the Twisting Nether to watch for demons, and to hunt down the mistakes of these amateurs. Now I
must rescue them against other nations? Will I be asked to support Azeroth in a trade dispute with
Lordaeron next? Such matters should not be our worry.”

“There may not be an Azeroth without your help. Lothar is…”

 “Lothar is a fool,” muttered Medivh. “An old mother hen that sees threats everywhere. And Llane is little
better, seeing nothing that could break his walls. And the Order, all the mighty mages, they have
quarreled and argued and spat among themselves so now they don’t have the power to repel a new
invader. No, Young Trust, this is the little stuff. Even if the orcs succeeded in Azeroth, they would need a
Guardian, and I would be here for them.”

“Master, that’s…”

 “Sacrilege? Blasphemy? Betrayal?” The Magus sighed and pinched the bridge of his nose. “Perhaps. But
I am a man made old before my time, and I have paid a great price for my unwanted power. Permit me
to rail against the clockworks that rule my life. Go now. I’ll return to your tales of woe in the morning.”

As he was closing the door, Khadgar heard Medivh add, “I am so tired of worrying about everything.
When can I worry about myself?”



 “The orcs have attacked Stormwind,” said Khadgar. It was three weeks later. He laid the missive on the
table between him and Garona.

 The half-orc stared at the red-sealed envelope like it was a venomous snake. “I am sorry,” she said at
last. “They will not as a rule take prisoners.”

“The orc forces were repelled this time,” said Khadgar. “Thrown back before they reached the gates by
Llane’s troops. From the descriptions, it sounds like Kilrogg’s Bleeding Hollow and the Twilight’s
Hammer clans. There seemed to be a lack of coordination between the major forces.”

Garona gave a bulldog-sneeze grunt and said, “The Twilight’s Hammer should have never be put on an
assault in a siege situation. Kilrogg likely was trying to decimate a rival, and use Stormwind as his anvil to
do so.”

“So even in the midst of an attack, they continue to brawl and betray each other,” said Khadgar. He
wondered if his own reports to Lothar had given them the information they needed to break the assault.

 Garona shrugged, “Very much like humans.” She motioned to the books piled high on the study table.
“In your histories, there are continual justifications for all manner of hellish actions. Claims of nobility and
heritage and honor to cover up every bit of genocide, assassination, and massacre. At least the Horde is
honest in their naked lust for power.” She was silent for a moment, then added, “I don’t think I could
have helped them.”

“The orcs, or Stormwind?” asked Khadgar.

 “Either,” said Garona. “I did not know about any attack on Stormwind, if that’s what you’re hinting at,
though anyone with half an ounce of sense would know that a Horde would strike against the biggest
target as soon as possible. You know that from our discussions. You also know that they’ll pull back,
regroup, kill a few leaders, and then come back in greater numbers.”

“I can guess, yes,” said Khadgar.

Garona added, “And you already sent a letter to the Champion at Stormwind just to that affect.”

Khadgar thought he kept his face passive, but the orc emissary gave a wide smile. “Yes, you did.”

Khadgar now felt his face turn flush, but pressed his point. “Actually, the question I have is, Why haven’t
you been reporting to your masters?”

The green-fleshed woman leaned back in her seat. “Who’s to say I haven’t?”

“I do,” said Khadgar. “Unless you’re a better mage that I am.”

A small tic at the corner of Garona’s mouth betrayed her. “You haven’t been reporting in at all, have
you?” asked Khadgar.

 Garona was silent for a moment, and Khadgar let the silence fill the library. At length she said, “Let’s just
say I’ve been having a problem with divided loyalties.”

“I thought you had no allegiances,” said Khadgar.

Garona ignored him. “I was sent here, ordered here, by a warlock named Gul’dan. Spellcaster. Leader
of the Stormreavers. Very influential in the Horde. Very interested in the mages of your world.”

“And the orcs have the tendency to strike the biggest target first. Medivh,” said Khadgar.

 “Gul’dan said Medivh was special. From which secret divination or spice-fueled meditation he used to
come to that conclusion, I don’t know.” Garona avoided Khadgar’s glance. “I met several times with
Medivh in the field, then agreed to come to the tower here as an emissary. I was supposed to trade basic
information and report back to Gul’dan as much as I could about Medivh’s strengths. So you were right
from the start—I was here as a spy.”
 Khadgar sat down across from her. “You wouldn’t have been the first,” he said. “So why didn’t you
report back?”

 Garona was silent for a moment. “Medivh…” she started, then stopped. “The Old Man…” another
pause. “He saw through it all at once, of course, and he still told me what I wanted to know. Most of it,
at least.”

“I know,” said Khadgar. “He had the same affect on me.”

 Garona nodded. “At first I thought he was just being pompous, sure in his power, like some orc
chieftains I’ve known. But there’s something else. It’s as if he feels that by giving me the knowledge, he
knew I would be changed by it, and would not betray his trust.”

 “Trust,” said Khadgar. “That’s a big thing for Medivh. He seems to exude it. Standing next to him, you
feel he knows what he’s doing.”

“Right,” said Garona, “and orcs are drawn to power naturally. I figured I could tell Gul’dan that I was
held prisoner, unable to respond, and so I learned more, and eventually…”

“You didn’t want to see him hurt,” finished Khadgar.

“As Moroes would say, ‘ayep’,” said Garona. “He put a lot of trust in me, and he puts it in you, too.
After watching your vision-power thing, I told him about it. I figured that might have brought the demon
down on us. He said he knew and it didn’t bother him. That you were naturally curious, and it served you
well. He stands by his people.”

“And you can’t hurt someone like that,” said Khadgar.

“Ayep. He made me feel human. And I haven’t felt human in a long, long time. The Old Man, Magus
Medivh, seems to have a dream of more than one force battling another for domination. With his power,
he could have destroyed us all, yet he does not. I think he believes in something better. I want to believe
his dream as well.”

The two sat there for a while in silence. Somewhere in the distance, Moroes or Cook moved along the
hallway.

“And recently…” said Garona. “Has he ever been like this before?”

 She sounded like Lothar—trying to ask without seeming too concerned. Khadgar shook his head. “He’s
always been erratic. Eccentric. But I’ve never seen him this…depressed.”

“Brooding,” added Garona. “Neutral. Up to now I’ve always assumed he would be on the side of the
Kingdom of Azeroth. But if Stormwind itself is attacked and still he does nothing…”

 “It may be his own training,” said Khadgar, choosing his words carefully. He did not want to reveal the
Order to Garona, regardless of her current feelings. “He has to take a very long view on things. It
sometimes cuts him off from others.”

 “Which is why he takes in strays, I suppose,” said Garona. Another silence, then she added, “I am not
sorry that Stormwind repelled the invaders. You don’t destroy something like that from without. You
have to do something within to weaken the walls first.”
“I’m glad you’re not there as a general,” said Khadgar.

“Chieftain,” said Garona. “Like I’d get a chance.”

“There is something,” said Khadgar, then stopped. Garona tilted her heavily mawed head toward him.

“You sound like someone looking for a favor,” she said.

“I have never asked you about troop strengths, and positions….”

“About obvious spy stuff.”

 “But,” said Khadgar, “they were amazed by the huge numbers of orc warriors on the field. They fought
them back, but were surprised that the swamps of the Black Morass could hold that many soldiers. Even
now they’re worried about the forces that could be hiding within the marshlands.”

“I know nothing of troop dispositions,” said Garona. “I have been here, spying on you, remember?”

“True,” said Khadgar. “But I also know you talked of your homeland. How did you get from there to
here? Was it some spell?”

 Garona sat quietly for a moment, as if trying to resolve something in her mind. Khadgar expected a flip
comment, or a redirection of the subject, or even another question in response. Instead she said, “We
call our world Draenor. It is a savage world, filled with badlands and bluffs and hardscrabble vegetation.
Inhospitable and stormy…”

“And it has a red sky,” added Khadgar.

Garona looked at the young mage. “You have spoken with other orcs? Prisoners, perhaps? I was
unaware the humans took orc prisoners.”

 “No, a vision,” said Khadgar. The memory seemed half a lifetime away. “Much like you saw the first
time we met. It was the first time I had seen orcs. I remember there were huge numbers of them.”

Garona let out a bulldog snort. “Your visions probably reveal more than you say, but you have a good
picture. Orcs are fecund, and large litters are common, because so many die before they reach a
warrior’s age.

“It was a hard life, and only the strong, the powerful, and the smart survived. I was in the third group,
but still I was a near-outcast, surviving as best I could at the fringes of the clan. That would be the
Stormreavers, at the time, at least when the order went out.”

“Order?”

 “We were put on the march, every warrior and every capable hand. Grunt labor and swordsmen, all
ordered to pack up their weapons, tools, and belongings, and head for the Hellfire Peninsula. There a
great portal had been erected by Gul’dan and other powerful warlocks. A portal that broke through the
space between the worlds.”

Garona sucked on a fang, remembering. “It was a great set of standing stones, hauled there to frame a
rip in space itself. Within the rip were the colors of darkness, a swirl like oil on the surface of a polluted
pool. I got the feeling that rip had been forged by greater hands, and the warlocks had just contained it.

“Many of the most hardened warriors feared the space between the pillars, but the chieftains and
underchiefs made passionate speeches about what was to be found on the other side. A world of riches.
A world of plenty. A world of soft creatures who would be easily dominated. All this they promised.

“Some still resisted. Some were slain, and others were forced through with axes resting against their
backs. I was caught with a large group of laborers and shoved into the space between the pillars.”

 Garona fell silent for a moment. “It’s called the Twisting Nether, and it was both instantaneous and
eternal. I fell forever, and when I emerged into the strange light, I was in a mad new world.”

Khadgar added, “After promises of paradise, the Black Morass would be quite a letdown.”

Garona shook her head. “It was a shock. I remember quailing at the first sight of the blue, hostile sky.
And the land, covered with vegetation as far as the eye could see. Some could not take it and went mad.
Many joined the Burning Blade, the chaos orcs thronging beneath their fire-orange pennant, that day.”

 Garona stroked her heavy chin. “I feared, but I survived. And I found my half-breed life gave me insight
on these humans. I was part of an ambush party that attacked Medivh. He killed everyone else, but left
me alive, and sent me with a message back to the Warlock Gul’dan. And after a while, Gul’dan sent me
as his spy, but I found I had…difficulty…betraying the Old Man’s secrets.”

“Divided loyalties,” commented Khadgar.

 “But to answer your question,” said Garona, “no, I don’t know how many clans have poured through
the Dark Portal from Draenor. And I don’t know how long it will take for them to recover. And I don’t
know where the portal came from. But you, Khadgar, can find out.”

Khadgar blinked. “Me?”

 “Your visions,” said Garona. “You seem to be able to summon up the ghosts of the past, even of
faraway. I watched you call up a vision of Medivh’s mother when I first met you. That was Stormwind
we were at?”

“Yes,” said Khadgar. “And that’s why I still think the demon in the library was real—there was no
background to the vision.”

Garona waved off his comment. “But you can call up these visions. You can summon up the moment
when the rift was first created. You can find out who brought the orcs through to Azeroth.”

“Aye,” said Khadgar. “And I bet it’s the same mage or warlock that has been unleashing demons. It
makes sense, that the two be linked.” He looked at Garona. “You know, that would not be a question I
would have thought of.”

 “I will provide the questions,” said Garona, looking very pleased with herself, “if you provide the
answers.”
The empty dining room again. The ever-diligent Moroes had swept up the earlier casting circle, and
Khadgar had to recast it with streams of crushed rose quartz and amethyst. Garona fit lit torches into the
wall sconces, then stood in the center of the pattern, next to him.

“I’ll warn you,” he said to the half-orc. “This may not work.”

“You’ll do well,” replied Garona. “I’ve seen you do it before.”

 “I’ll probably get something,” said Khadgar. “I just don’t know what.” He made the motions with his
hands, and intoned the words. With Garona watching, he wanted to get everything just right. At last he
released the mystical energy from the cage within his mind and shouted, “Show me the origin of the rift
between Draenor and Azeroth!”

 There was a change in the pressure, in the very weight of the air around them. It was warm, and night,
but the night sky outside their window (for there was a window now in these quarters) was a deep red,
the color of old, dried blood, and only a few weak stars pierced the envelope.

 It was someone’s quarters, likely an orc leader. There were fur rugs on the floor and a large platform
that would serve as a bed. A low fire pit burned in the center of the room. Weapons hung on the stone
walls, and there were a plethora of cabinets as well. One was open, showing a line of preservedthings,
some of which might have once belonged to human or humanish creatures.

 The figure in the bed tossed, turned, and then sat up suddenly, as awakening from a bad dream. He
stared into the darkness, and his savaged, war-torn face was clear. Even by orc standards, he was an
ugly representative of his race.

Garona let out a sharp gasp, and said, “Gul’dan.”

 Khadgar nodded and said, “He should not see you.” This, then, was the warlock that had sent Garona
to spy. He looked about as trustworthy as a bent gold piece. For the moment, he wrapped himself in his
furs, and spoke.

 “I can still see you,” he said. “Even though I think I am awake. Perhaps I dream I am awake. Come
forth, dream creature.”

Garona gripped Khadgar’s shoulder, and he could feel her sharp fingernails dig into his flesh. But
Gul’dan was not speaking to them. Instead a new specter wafted into view.

It was tall and broad-shouldered, taller than any of the other three. It was translucent, as if it did not
belong here either. It was hooded, and its voice reedy and distant. Though the only light was from the fire
pit, the figure cast two shadows—one directly back from the flames, the other to one side, as if lit by a
different source.

“Gul’dan,” said the figure. “I want your people. I want your armies. I want your power to aid me.”

 “I have called upon my spirit protectors, creature,” said Gul’dan, and Khadgar could hear a tremor in
the orc’s voice. “I have called upon my warlocks and they have quailed before you. I have called upon
my mystic master and he has failed to stop you. You haunt my dreams, and now you come, a
dream-creature, into my world. Who and what are you, truly?”

“You fear me,” said the tall figure, and at the sound of his voice, Khadgar felt a cold hand run down his
spine, “for you do not understand me. See my world and understand your fear. Then fear no more.”

 And with that the tall hooded figure shaped a ball out of the air, as light and clear as a soap bubble. It
floated, about a foot in diameter, and within it showed a tableau of a land with blue sky and green fields.

The cloaked figure was showing him Azeroth.

Another bubble followed, and then another, and then a fourth. The sun-dappled fields of summer grain.
The swamps of the Black Morass. The ice fields of the north. The shining towers of Stormwind Keep.

 And a bubble that contained a lonely tower cradled within a crater of hills, lit by clear moonlight. He was
showing the orc spellcaster Karazhan.

 And there was another bubble, a fleeting one, that showed some dark scene far beneath the waves. It
seemed an errant thought, one that was quickly eradicated. Yet Khadgar got the feeling of power. There
was a grave beneath the waves, a crypt, one that surged with power like a heartbeat. It was there for an
instant, and then gone.

 “Gather your forces,” said the cloaked figure. “Gather your armies and warriors and laborers and allies,
and prepare them for a journey through the Twisting Nether. Prepare them well, for all this will be yours
when you succeed.”

Khadgar shook his head. The voice stung at him like an errant gnat. Then he realized who it was and his
heart quailed.

 Gul’dan was up on his knees, his hands clasped before him. “I shall do so, for yours in power most
supreme. But who are you truly, and how will we reach this world?”

The figure raised his hands to his hood, and Khadgar shook his head. He didn’t want to see it. He knew
but he did not want to see it.

A deeply lined face. Graying brows. Green eyes that sparkled with hidden knowledge and something
dangerous. Next to him, Garona let out a gasp.

 “I am the Guardian,” said Medivh to the orc warlock. “I will open the way for you. I will smash the cycle
and be free.”


 Thirteen
 The Second Shadow
 No!” shouted Khadgar, and the vision ebbed at once. They were alone in the dining hall once more, at
the center of an ornate pattern made of crushed agates and rose quartz.

 His ears tingled and the corners of his vision seemed to close in on him. He had sunk to one knee, but
was unaware that he had even moved. Above him and to his right, Garona’s voice sounded hushed,
almost strangled.

“Medivh,” she said quietly. “The Old Man. It couldn’t be.”
“It can be,” said Khadgar. His stomach felt like knotted snakes were churning within his flesh. His mind
was already racing, and though he fervently wished to deny it, he knew its destination.

 “No,” said Garona, grimly. “It must be a misfire. A false vision. We went looking for one thing and found
something else. You said that’s happened before.”

 “Not like this,” said Khadgar. “We may not be shown what we want, but we are always shown the
truth.”

“Perhaps its just a warning,” said the half-orc.

 “It makes sense,” said Khadgar, and there was the sound of rust and regret in his voice. “Think about it.
That’s why the wards were still intact after we were attacked. He was already within the wards, and
summoned the demon within.”

 “It didn’t seem like him,” said Garona. “Perhaps it was an illusion, some magical fakery. It didn’t seem
like him.”

 “It was him,” said the apprentice, rising now. “I know the master’s voice. I know the master’s face. In
all his moods and manners.”

“But it was like someone else was wearing that face,” said Garona. “Something false. Like he was a set
of clothes, or a suit of armor, that someone else was wearing.”

 Khadgar looked at the half-orc. Her voice was tremulous, and tears pooled in the corners of her wide
eyes. She wanted to believe. She truly wanted to believe.

 Khadgar wanted to believe as well. He nodded slowly. “It could be a trick. It still could be him. He
could be tricking that orc, convincing him to come here. Maybe a vision of the future?”

 Now it was Garona’s turn to shake her head. “No. That was Gul’dan. He’s here already. He herded us
through the portal. This was in the past, this was their first meeting. But why would Medivh want to bring
the orcs to Azeroth?”

 “It explains why he hasn’t done much to oppose them,” said Khadgar. He shook his head, trying to
loosen the thoughts that were lodged there. So many things suddenly made more sense. Odd
disappearances. Little interest in the increasing number of orcs. Even bringing a half-orc into the castle.

 He regarded Garona and wondered how deeply she was involved in the plot. She seemed completely
taken aback by the news, yet was she a conspirator, or another pawn in the shadowplay that Medivh
seemed to be running?

 “We need to find out,” he said simply. “We need to know why he was there. What he was doing. He is
the Guardian—we should not condemn him on a single vision.”

Garona nodded slowly. “So we ask him. How?”

Khadgar opened his mouth to respond, but another voice sounded through the halls.

“What’s all this brouhaha?” said Medivh, rounding the corner at the dining hall’s entrance.
Khadgar’s throat constricted and went dry.

 The Magus stood in the doorway, and Khadgar looked at him, hunting for something in his walk, his
appearance, his voice. Anything to betray his presence. There was nothing. This was Medivh.

“What are you children up to?” said the Magus, his gray brows furrowing.

Khadgar struggled for an answer, but Garona said, “The Apprentice was showing me a spell he was
working on.” Her voice fluttered.

 Medivh grunted. “Another of your visions, Young Trust? They’re bad enough around here, without you
calling up the past. Come out of there at once—we have work to do. And you as well, Emissary.”

 His voice was measured and understanding, but firm. The stern voice of the wise mentor. Khadgar took
a step forward, but Garona grabbed him by the arm.

“Shadows,” she hissed.

 Khadgar blinked, and looked at the Magus again. Impatience showed on his face now, and disapproval.
His shoulders were still broad, he held himself upright despite the pressures on him. He was dressed in
robes Khadgar had seen him wear often before.

 And behind him trailed two shadows. One directly away from the torch, and the other, equally dark, at
an odd angle.

Khadgar hesitated, and Medivh’s disapproval deepened, a storm gathering on his face. “What is the
matter, Young Trust?”

 “We should clean up our mess,” said Khadgar, trying to be light. “Don’t want to make Moroes work
too hard. We will catch up.”

“Negotiation is not part of an apprentice’s duties,” said Medivh. “Now come here at once.”

No one moved. Garona said, “Why doesn’t he come into the room?”

Why indeed,thought Khadgar. Instead he said, “One question, Master?”

“What now?” grunted the master mage.

 “Why did you visit the orc Gul’dan’s dreams?” said Khadgar, feeling his throat tighten as he asked,
“Why did you show the orcs how to come to this world?”

Medivh’s glare shifted to Garona. “I was unaware Gul’dan told you of me. He didn’t strike me as being
unwise, or a chatterbox.”

Garona took a step back, but this time Khadgar restrained her. She said, “I didn’t know. Until now.”

Medivh snorted. “It matters little. Now come here. Both of you.”

“Why did you show the orcs the way here?” repeated Khadgar.
“You do not negotiate with your betters!” snapped the mage.

“Why did you bring the orcs to Azeroth?” asked Khadgar, pleading now.

“It is none of your business, child. Youwill come here! Now!” The Magus’s face was livid and twisted.

“With respect, sir,” said Khadgar, and his words felt like dagger-thrusts, “no, I will not.”

Medivh thundered in rage. “Child, I will have you…” and as he spoke, he stepped into the room.

 Sparks flew up at once, bathing the older mage in a shower of light. The Magus staggered back a step,
then raised his hands, and muttered a curse.

“What?” began Garona.

 “Circle of Warding,” snapped Khadgar. “To keep summoned demons at bay. The Magus cannot cross
it.”

 “But if it only affects demons, why not? Unless…” Garona, looked at Khadgar. “No,” she said. “Can
the circle hold him back?”

Khadgar thought of jackstraw laid across the wards in the tower at Stormwind, and at the energy
blossoming by the doorway. He shook his head.

Instead he shouted at the Magus, “Is this what you did to Huglar and Hugarin? And Guzbah? And the
others? Did they figure things out?”

 “They were further from the truth than you were, child,” said the illuminated Magus through gritted teeth,
“But I had to be careful. I forgave your curiosity for your youth, and thought that loyalty—” He grunted
now as the protective wards resisted him. “—I thought that loyalty still mattered in this world.”

 The protective wards blazed as Medivh moved into them, and Khadgar could see the fields distorting
around the Magus’s outstretched palms. The flickering of the sparks seemed to catch Medivh’s beard on
fire, and smoke curled up like horns from his forehead.

And then Khadgar’s heart sank, for he realized that what he was seeing was another image, this one laid
over the image of the beloved mage. The image that belonged to the second shadow.

“He’s going to get through,” said Garona.

Khadgar gritted his teeth, “Eventually. He’s pouring huge amounts of power into breaking the circle.”

“Can he do that?” asked the half-orc.

“He’s the Guardian of Tirisfal,” said Khadgar. “He can do whatever he wants. It just takes time.”

“Well, can we get out of here?” Garona sounded panicked now.

“Only way out is past him,” said Khadgar.
Garona looked around. “Blow out a wall, then. New exit.”

Khadgar looked at the stonework of the tower, but shook his head.

“Well, try something!”

 “I’ll try this,” said Khadgar. Before them, the figure of Medivh, taller now and wreathed in lightning,
loomed up in the smoke.

Calming himself, he pulled the magical energies into himself. He made the motions he had made only
minutes before, and intoned the words lost to mortal men, and when he had compressed the energies into
a single ball of light, he released it.

“Bring me a vision,” said Khadgar, “of one who has fought this beast before!”

 There was a brief bit of disorientation, and for a moment Khadgar thought the spell had misfired and
transported them to the observatory atop the tower. But no, it was now night around them, and an
imperious, angry female voice split the air.

“Youdare strike your own mother?” shouted Aegwynn, her own face livid with rage.

 Aegwynn stood at one end of the observatory deck, Medivh at the other. It was Medivh as he knew
him—tall, proud, and apparently worried. Neither she nor the past-Medivh paid any attention to either
Khadgar or Garona. With a start, Khadgar realized that the present incarnation of Medivh was present
as well, sparkling along one wall. The pair from the past ignored him as well, but the present-Medivh was
watching the spectacle played out before them.

“Mother, I thought you were being hysterical,” said the past-Medivh.

“So a mystic bolt would bring me to my senses?” snapped the previous Guardian. Khadgar saw that she
was much older now. Her blond hair was now white, and there were tight wrinkles around her eyes and
mouth. Still, she held the presence of the earlier forms he had seen. “Now,” she said, “answer my
question.”

“Mother, you’re not seeing things right,” said the past-Medivh.

“Answer,” snapped Aegwynn sternly. “Why did you bring the orcs to Azeroth?”

 “No wonder he was so testy when you asked him that,” said Garona. Khadgar shushed her, and kept an
eye on the present-Medivh. The present incarnation had ceased to press against the walls of the wards,
and his face seemed to have lost its emotion.

“Mother?” said the present-Medivh. His face looked credulous.

 “You don’tHAVE an answer, do you?” said Aegwynn. “This is some little game you’re playing. Some
challenge for Llane and Lothar to amuse themselves with? The power of theTirisfalen is no game, child.
There are more orcs coming in all the time, and I am hearing of caravans being raided near the Black
Morass. A novice could track back to your Portal, but only your mother would be able to taste the
power that wrapped it. Again, child, how do you account for yourself?”

Khadgar wilted under the older woman’s invective, and half-expected the past-Medivh to flee the room.
Instead, Medivh surprised him. He laughed deeply.

“Does your mother’s disproval amuse you, child?” said Aegwynn sternly.

“No,” said Medivh, flashing a deep, predatory grin. “But my mother’s stupidity does.”

 Khadgar looked across the room, and saw the present-Medivh flinch at the sound of his past
incarnation’s words.

“You dare,” thundered Aegwynn, raising her hand. A sphere of blazing-white light erupted from her
palm and lanced toward the past-Medivh. The Magus raised a hand and turned it aside with ease.

 “I do, Mother,” said the phantom of the past. “And I have the power for it. The power that you invested
me with at my conception, a power that I did not want or request.” The phantom-Medivh gestured, and
the topmost floor was alight with a blazing bolt. Aegwynn caught the energy herself, but Khadgar noted
that she had to raise both hands, and still was staggered back.

“Butwhy did you let the orcs into Azeroth?” hissed the older woman. “There is no need. You put entire
populations at risk, and to what end?”

“To break the cycle, of course,” said the past-Medivh. “To smash the clockwork universe that you have
built for me. Everything in its place, including your child. If you could not continue on as Guardian, your
hand-picked, born and groomed successor would, but would be locked into his script as tightly as any of
your other pawns.”

The present-Medivh had sunk to his knees, his eyes locked on the tableaux before him. He was
mouthing the words that his past-self had spoken.

 Garona tugged on Khadgar’s sleeve, and he nodded. The pair left the heart of the wards, and began to
edge around the room, trying to ease behind the present incarnation of the Magus.

“But, the risk, child…” said Aegwynn.

 “Risk?” said Medivh. “Risk to whom? Not to me, not with the power of theTirisfalen at my command.
To the rest of the Order? They worry more about internal politics than demons. To the human nations?
Fat and happy, protected from dangers that they do not even know about? Is anyone important really at
risk?”

“You’re playing with forces greater than yourself, Son,” said Aegwynn. Khadgar and Garona were
nearly to the door, but the present-Medivh was held rapt by the vision.

“Oh, of course,” said the Magus’s past with a snarl. “Thinking that I could handle powers like that would
be the sin of Pride. Sort of like thinking you could match wits with a demon lord and come out on top.”

 They were behind Medivh now, and Garona reached for the knife inside her blouse. Khadgar stopped
her hand and shook his head. They slipped behind Medivh. Tears were starting to form at the old man’s
eyes.

“What happens if these orcs succeed?” said Aegwynn. “They worship dark gods and shadows. Why
would you give Azeroth to them?”
“Whenthey succeed,” said the past Medivh, “they will make me their leader. They respect strength,
Mother, unlike you or the rest of this sorry world. And thanks to you, I am the strongest thing in this
world. And I will have broken the shackles that you and others have placed on me, and I will rule.”

There was a silence in the vision, and Khadgar and Garona froze, holding their breath. Would the
present Medivh notice them in the silence?

Aegwynn, speaking from the years past, held his attention. “You are not my son,” she said.

The present Medivh put his face in his hands. His past version said, “No. I have never been your son.
Never truly yours, in any case.”

 And the past Magus laughed. It was a deep, thundering laugh that Khadgar had heard before, on the icy
steppes, when last these two battled.

Aegwynn looked shocked, “Sargeras?” she spat, in final recognition. “I killed you.”

 “You killed a body, witch. You only killed my physical form!” snarled the Medivh of the past, and
already Khadgar could see the overlay of the second being, the alternate shadow, that consumed him. A
creature of shadow and flame, with a beard of fire and great ebon horns. “Killed it and hid it away in a
tomb beneath the sea. But I was willing to sacrifice it to gain a greater prize.”

Despite herself, Aegwynn put a hand over her stomach.

 “Yes, Mother dear,” said the past Medivh, the flames licking at his beard, the horns forming out of
smoke before his brows. He was Medivh, but Sargeras as well. “I hid in your womb, and passed into the
slumbering cells of your unformed child. A cancer, a blight, a birth defect that you would never surmise.
Killing you was impossible, seducing you unlikely. So I made myself your heir.”

 Aegwynn shouted a curse and lurched her hands upward, her anger wrapped around words not made
for human voices. A bolt of scintillating rainbow energy struck the Medivh/Sargeras creature full in the
chest.

 The phantom of the past staggered back one step, then two, then raised a single hand and caught the
energy cast at him. The room smelled of cooking meat, and the Sargeras/Medivh snarled and spat. He
invoked a spell of his own, and Aegwynn was flung across the room.

“I cannot kill you, Mother,” snapped the demonic form. “Some part of me keeps me from doing that.
But Iwill break you. Break you and banish you, and by the time you’ve healed, by the time you’ve
walked back from where I will send you, this land will be mine. This land, and the power of the Order of
Tirisfal!”

In the present day, Medivh let out the howl of a lost soul, screaming to the heavens for forgiveness that
will never be forthcoming.

“That’s our cue,” said Garona, pulling on Khadgar’s robe. “Let’s get while the getting is good.”

Khadgar hesitated for a moment, then followed her to the stairs.

They tumbled down the stone stairs three at a time, almost slamming into Moroes.
“Excited,” he noted calmly. “Problem?”

Garona hurdled down past the castellan, but Khadgar grabbed the older man and said, “The master has
gone mad.”

“More than usual?” replied Moroes.

“It’s not a joke,” said Khadgar, then his eyes lit up. “Do you have the whistle to summon gryphons?”

The servant raised a rune-carved piece of metal. “Wish me to summon…”

“I’ll do it,” said Khadgar, grabbing the item from his hands, and hurtling after Garona. “He’ll be after us,
but you had better run as well. Take Cook and flee as far as you can.”

And with that Khadgar was lost to view.

“Flee?” said Moroes to the apprentice’s retreating form; then he snorted. “Wherever would I go?”


 Fourteen
 Flight
 They had made it several miles when the gryphon began to misbehave. Only a single beast had answered
Khadgar’s summons, and bridled as Garona approached it. Only by sheer strength of will did the young
mage get the gryphon to accept the half-orc’s presence. They could hear Medivh screaming and cursing
long after they have left the circle of hills. They tilted the gryphon toward Stormwind, and Khadgar dug
his heels deeply into the gryphon’s haunches.

 They had made good speed, but now the gryphon bucked beneath him, trying to tear at the reins, trying
to turn back toward the mountains. Khadgar tried to break the beast, to keep it to its course, but it
became increasingly agitated.

“What’s wrong with it?” asked Garona over his shoulder.

“Medivh is calling it back,” said Khadgar. “It wants to go back to Karazhan.”

 Khadgar wrestled with the reins, even tried the whistle, but at last had to admit defeat. He brought the
gryphon down on a low, bare tor, and slid from its back after Garona had climbed off. As soon as he
touched ground, the gryphon was aloft again, beating its heavy wings against the darkening air, climbing
to return the call of its master.

“Think he will follow?” asked Garona.

“I don’t know,” said Khadgar. “But I don’t want to be here if he does. We’ll make for Stormwind.”

 They stumbled about for most of the evening and night, finding a dirt track, then following it in the general
direction of Stormwind. There was no immediate pursuit nor strange lights in the sky, and before dawn
the pair rested briefly, huddling beneath a great cedar.
They saw no one alive during the next day. There were houses burned to the foundations, and clumps of
newly hummocked earth that marked buried families. Overturned and smashed carts were common, as
were great burned circles heaped with ash. Garona noted that this was how the orcs dealt with their
dead, after the bodies had been looted.

 The only animals they saw were dead—disemboweled pigs by a shattered farmhouse, the skeletal
remains of a horse, consumed save for the frightened, twisted head. They moved in silence through one
despoiled farmstead after another.

“Your people have been thorough,” Khadgar said at last.

“They pride themselves on such matters,” said Garona, grimly.

“Pride?” said Khadgar, looking around him. “Pride in destruction? In despoiling? No human army, no
human nation would burn down everything in its path, or kill animals without purpose.”

 Garona nodded. “It is the orc way—do not leave enough standing that their foes could use against them.
If they could not use it immediately—as fodder, as quarters, as plunder, then it should be put to the torch.
The borders of orc clans are often desolate places, as each side seeks to deny the other resources.”

Khadgar shook his head. “These arenot resources,” he said hotly. “These are lives. This land was once
green and verdant, with fields and forests. Now it’s a wasteland. Look at this! Can there be any peace
between humans and orcs?”

 Garona said nothing. They continued in on silence that day, and camped in the shambles of an inn. They
slept in separate rooms, he in the wreckage of the common room, she moving farther back to the kitchen.
He didn’t suggest they stay together, and neither did she.

Khadgar was awakened by the growls of his stomach. They had fled the tower with little but what they
had on their backs, and save for some foraged berries and ground nuts, they had not eaten in over a day.

The young mage extricated himself from the raindamp straw tic that made his bed, his joints protesting.
He had not camped in the open since his arrival at Karazhan, and he felt out of shape. The fear of the
previous day had ebbed entirely, and he wondered about his next move.

 Stormwind was their stated target, but how would he get someone like Garona into the city? Maybe find
something to disguise her. Or did she even want to come? Now that she was free of the tower, maybe it
would be better for her to rejoin Gul’dan and the Stormreaver clan.

Something moved along the wrecked side of the building. Probably Garona. She had to be as hungry as
Khadgar. She hadn’t complained, but he assumed from the wreckage left behind that orcs required a lot
of food to keep them in top fighting form.

Khadgar stood up, shook the cobwebs from his mind, and leaned out the remains of a window to ask
her if there was anything left in the kitchen.

And was faced with one edge of a huge double-bladed ax, leveled at his neck.

At the opposite end of the ax was the jade-green face of an orc. A real orc. Khadgar had not realized
until now how accustomed to Garona’s face he had become, such that the heavy jaw and sloped brow
were a shock to him.
The orc growled, “Wuzzat?”

 Khadgar slowly raised both hands, all the while calling up in his mind the magical energy. A simple spell,
enough to knock the creature aside, to get Garona and get away.

Unless Garona had brought them here, he suddenly realized.

 He hesitated, and that was enough. He heard something behind him, but did not get to turn as something
large and heavy came down on the back of his neck.

He could not have been out long—long enough for a half-dozen orcs to spill into the room and start
pushing through the rubble with their axes. They wore green armbands. Bleeding Hollow clan, his
memory told him. He stirred, and the first orc, the one with the double-bladed ax, spun on him again.

“Wharsyurstuth?” said the orc. “Wharyuhidit?”

 “What?” asked Khadgar, wondering if it was the orc’s voice or his own ears that were mangling the
language.

“Your stuff,” said the orc, slower. “Your gear. You gots nothing. Where did you hide it?”

Khadgar spoke without thinking. “No stuff. Lost it earlier. No stuff.”

The orc snorted. “Then you die,” he snarled, and raised his blade.

 “No!” shouted Garona from the ruined doorway. She looked like she had spent a bad night, but had a
brace of hares on a leather thong hanging from her belt. She had been out hunting. Khadgar felt mildly
embarrassed for his earlier thoughts.

“Git out, half-breed,” snapped the orc. “None of your business.”

“You’re killing my property, that makes it my business,” said Garona.

Property?thought Khadgar, but held his tongue.

“Prop’ty?” lisped the orc. “Who’s you to have prop’ty?”

“I am Garona Halforcen,” snarled the woman, twisting her face into a mask of rage. “I serve Gul’dan,
warlock of the Stormreaver clan. Damage my property and you’ll have to deal with him!”

The orc snorted again. “Stormreavers? Pah! I hear they are a weak clan, pushed around by their
warlock!”

Garona gave him a steely glare. “What Ihear was that Bleeding Hollow failed to support the Twilight
Hollow clan in the recent attack on Stormwind, and that both clans were thrown back. Ihear that humans
beat you in a fair fight. Is that true?”

“Dat’s beside the point,” said the Bleeding Hollow orc. “Dey had horses.”

“Maybe I can…” said Khadgar, trying to rise to his feet.
 “Down, slave!” shouted Garona, cuffing him hard and sending him backward. “You speak when spoken
to, and not before!”

 The lead orc took the opportunity to take a step forward, but as soon as Garona had finished she
wheeled again, and a long-bladed dagger was pointed at the orc’s midsection. The other orcs backed
away from the brewing fight.

“Do you dispute my ownership?” snarled Garona, fire in her eyes and her muscles tensed to drive the
blade through the leather armor.

There was silence for a moment. The Bleeding Hollow orc looked at Garona, looked at the sprawled
Khadgar, and looked at Garona again. He snorted and said, “Go get something worth fighting for, first,
half-breed!”

 And with that the orc leader backed away. The others relaxed, and started to file out of the ruined
common room.

 One of his subordinates asked him as they left the building, “What duz she have a use for human slave
anyway?”

 The orc leader said something that Khadgar could not hear. The subordinate shouted from outside,
“Dat’sdisgusting!”

 Khadgar tried to stand, but Garona waved her hand for him to stay down. Despite himself, Khadgar
flinched.

Garona moved to the empty window, watched for a moment, then returned to where Khadgar had
propped himself up against the wall.

 “I think they’re gone,” she said at last. “I was afraid they might double back to even the score. Their
leader is probably going to be challenged tonight by his subordinates.”

Khadgar touched the tender side of his face. “I’m fine, thanks for asking.”

Garona shook her head. “You idiot of a paleskin! If I hadn’t knocked you down, the orc leader would
have killed you outright, and then turned on me because I couldn’t keep you in line.”

Khadgar sighed deeply. “Sorry. You’re right.”

 “You’re right I’m right,” said Garona. “They kept you alive long enough for me to get back only because
they thought you’d hidden something in the inn. That you wouldn’t be dumb enough to be out in the
middle of a war zone without equipment.”

“Did you have to hit that hard?” asked Khadgar.

“To convince them? Yes. Not that I didn’t enjoy it.” She threw the hares at him. “Here, skin these and
get the water boiling. There’re still pots and some tubers left in the kitchen.”

“Despite what you’re telling your friends,” said Khadgar, “I am not your slave.”
Garona chuckled. “Of course. But I caught breakfast. You get to cook it!”



 Breakfast was a hearty stew of rabbit and potato, seasoned with herbs Khadgar found in the remains of
the kitchen garden and mushrooms Garona picked in the wilderness. Khadgar checked the mushrooms
to see if any of them were poisonous. None of them were.

 “Orcs use their young as taste-testers,” said Garona. “If they survive, they know its good for the
community.”

 They set out on the road again, heading for Stormwind. Once more, the woods were eerily quiet, and all
they encountered was the remains of war.

 About midday, they came upon the Bleeding Hollow orcs once more. They were in a wide clear space
around a shattered watchtower, all facedown. Something large, heavy, and sharp had torn through their
back armor, and several were missing their heads.

Garona quickly moved from body to body, pulling salvageable gear from them. Khadgar scanned the
horizon.

Garona shouted over, “Are you going to help?”

“In a moment,” said Khadgar. “I want to make sure that whatever killed our friends is not still around.”

 Garona scanned the edges of the clearing, then looked skyward. Nothing was overhead but low,
ink-spattered clouds.

“Well?” she said. “I don’t hear anything.”

 “Neither did the orcs, until it was too late,” said Khadgar, joining her at the orc leader’s body. “They
were hit in the back, while running, and from an attacker taller than they were.” He pointed at hoof prints
in the dust. They were those of iron-shod, heavy horses. “Cavalry. Human cavalry.”

 Garona nodded. “So we’re getting close, at least. Take what you can from them. We can use their
rations—they’re nasty but nutritious. And take a weapon, at least a knife.”

Khadgar looked at Garona. “I’ve been thinking.”

Garona laughed. “I wonder how many human disasters start withthat line.”

“We’re within range of Stormwind patrols,” said Khadgar. “I don’t think Medivh is following us, at least
not directly. So maybe we should split up.”

 “Thought of that,” said Garona, rummaging through one of the orc’s packs, and pulling out first a cloak,
and then a small cloth-wrapped parcel. She opened the parcel to find a flint and steel and a vial of oily
liquid. “Fire-starting kit,” she explained. “Orcs love fire, and this is a quick starter.”

“So you think we should split up,” said Khadgar.

“No,” said Garona. “I said I thought about it. The trouble is that no one is in control of this area, human
or orc. You might walk fifty yards away and hit another patrol of the Bleeding Hollow clan, and I might
get ambushed by your cavalry buddies. If the two of us are together, there’s a better chance of survival.
One is the other’s slave.”

“Prisoner,” said Khadgar. “Humans don’t take slaves.”

“Sure you do,” said Garona. “You just call them something else. So we should stay together.”

“And that’s it?” said Khadgar.

 “Mostly,” said Garona. “Plus there is the little fact that I haven’t reported in to Gul’dan for some time. If
and when we do run into him, I will explain that I was held prisoner at Karazhan, and he should have
shown more wisdom than to send one of his followers into a trap.”

“You think he’d believe that?” asked Khadgar.

“I am uncertain that he would,” said Garona. “Which is another good reason to stay with you.”

“You could buy yourself a lot of influence with what you’ve learned,” said Khadgar.

Garona nodded. “Yeah. If I don’t get an ax through my brain before I get to tell anyone. No, for the
moment I’ll take my chances with the paleskins. Now, I need one more thing.”

“What’s that?”

“I need to gather the bodies together, and heap some brush and tinder over them. We can cache what
we don’t need, but we need to burn the bodies. It’s the least we can do.”

Khadgar frowned. “If the heavy horse are still in the area, a plume of smoke will bring them at once.”

“I know,” said Garona, looking around at the fragments of the patrol. “But it’s the right thing to do. If
you found human soldiers killed in an ambush, wouldn’t you want to bury them?”

 Khadgar’s mouth made a grim line, but he didn’t say anything. Instead, he went to grab the farthest orc
and drag him back to the remains of the watchtower. Within an hour, they had stripped the bodies and
set the remains ablaze.

“Now we should go,” said Khadgar, as Garona watched the smoke spiral upward.

“Won’t this call the horsemen?” said Garona.

 “Yes,” said Khadgar. “And it will also send a message—there are orcs here. Orcs who feel secure
enough to burn the bodies of their comrades. I’d rather have a chance to explain ourselves at close range
than facing a charging warhorse, thank you very much.”

Garona nodded, and, stolen cloaks flapping behind them, they left the burning watchtower.



Garona spoke truly, in that the orc version of field rations were a nasty concoction of hardened syrup,
nuts, and what Khadgar swore was boiled rat. Still, it kept them going, and they made good time.
 A day and a day passed and the country opened up now into sprawling fields that rippled with growing
crops. The land was no less desolate, though, the stables empty and the houses already collapsed in on
themselves. They found several more burned spots of orc funerals, and an increasing number of
hummocks marking the passing of human families and patrols.

 Still, they kept to the brush and fence lines as much as possible. The more open terrain made it easier to
see any other units, but left them more exposed. They holed up in a mostly intact farmhouse while a small
army of orcs moved along the ridgeline.

 Khadgar watched the line of units surge forward. Grunts, cavalry mounted on great wolves, and
catapults done up in fanciful decorations of skulls and dragons. Beside him, Garona watched the
procession and said, “Idiots.”

Khadgar shot her a questioning glance.

 “They could not be more exposed,” she explained. “We can see them, and the paleskins can see them
as well. This lot doesn’t have an objective—they’re just rolling through the countryside, looking for a
fight. Looking for a noble death in battle.” She shook her head.

“You don’t think much of your people,” said Khadgar.

“I don’t think much ofany people, right now,” said Garona. “The orcs disown me, the humans will kill
me. And the only human I really trusted turned out to be a demon.”

“Well, there’s me,” said Khadgar, trying not to sound hurt.

 Garona winced. “Yes, there is you. You are human, and I trust you. But I thought, I really thought, that
Medivh was going to make a difference. Powerful, important, and willing to talk. Unprejudiced. But I
deceived myself. He’s just another madman. Maybe that’s just my place—working for madmen. Maybe
I’m just another pawn in the game. What did Medivh call it? The unforgiving clockwork of the universe?”

“Your role,” said Khadgar, “is whatever you choose it to be. Medivh always wanted that as well.”

“You think he was sane when he said that?” asked the half-orc.

 Khadgar shrugged. “As sane as he ever was. I believe he was. And it sounds like you want to believe
that as well.”

 “Ayep,” drawled Garona. “It was all so simple, when I was working for Gul’dan. His little eyes and
ears. Now I don’t know who’s right and who’s wrong. Which people are my people? Either of them? At
least you don’t have to worry about divided loyalties.”

 Khadgar didn’t say anything, but looked out into the gathering dusk. Somewhere, over the horizon, the
orc army had run into something. There was the low glow of a false dawn along the edge of the world in
that direction, marked with the reflection of sudden flashes off the low clouds, and the echoes of war
drums and death sounded like distant thunder.

Another day and a day passed. Now they moved through abandoned towns and marketplaces. The
buildings were more whole now, but still abandoned. There were signs of recent inhabitation, both by
human and orc troops, but now the only inhabitants were ghosts and memories.
Khadgar broke into a likely-looking shop, and while its shelves had been stripped bare, the hearth still
had wood in the hopper and there were potatoes and onions in a small bin in the basement. Anything
would be an improvement after the orc’s iron rations.

 Khadgar laid the fire and Garona took a cauldron to the nearby well. Khadgar thought about the next
step. Medivh was a danger, perhaps a greater danger than the orcs. Could he be reasoned with, now?
Convinced to shut the portal? Or was it too late?

 Just the knowledge that therewas a portal would be good news. If the humans could locate it, even shut
it, it would strand the orcs on this world. Deny them reinforcements from Draenor.

The apprentice was pulled from his thoughts by the commotion outside. The clash of metal on metal.
Human voices, bellowing.

“Garona,” muttered Khadgar, and headed for the door.

 He found them by the well. A patrol of about ten footmen, dressed in the blue livery of Azeroth, swords
drawn. One of them was cradling a bleeding arm, but another pair had Garona in their grip, one
restraining each arm. Her long-bladed dagger was on the ground. As Khadgar rounded the corner, the
sergeant backhanded her across the face with a mailed glove.

“Where are the others?” he snarled. The half-orc’s mouth leaked blackish-purple blood.

“Leave her alone!” shouted Khadgar. Without thinking, he pulled the energies into his mind and released
a quick spell.

 A brilliant light blossomed around Garona’s head, a miniature sun that caught the humans unaware. The
two footmen holding Garona let go of her, and she slid to the ground. The sergeant raised a hand to
protect his eyes, and the remainder of the patrol was sufficiently surprised, so that Khadgar was among
them and at Garona’s side in a matter of moments.

“S’prised,” muttered Garona through a split lip. “Lemme get my wind back.”

 “Stay down,” said Khadgar softly. To the blinking sergeant he barked, “Are you in charge of this
rabble?”

By now most of the footmen had recovered, and had their swords level. The two next to Garona had
backed up a pace, but they were watching her, not Khadgar.

The sergeant spat, “Who areyou to interfere with the military? Get him out of the way, boys!”

 “Hold!” said Khadgar, and the soldiers, having experienced his spells once, only advanced a single pace.
“I am Khadgar, apprentice to Medivh the Magus, friend and ally to your King Llane. I have business with
him. Take us at once to Stormwind.”

The sergeant just chuckled. “Sure you are, and I am Lord Lothar. Medivh doesn’t take apprentices.
Even I know that. And who is your sweetheart, there, then?”

“She is…” Khadgar hesitated for a moment. “She is my prisoner. I am taking her to Stormwind for
questioning.”
 “Huh,” grunted the sergeant. “Well, boyo, wefound your prisoner out here, armed, with you nowhere in
sight. I’d say your prisoner escaped. Pity the orc would rather die than surrender.”

“Don’t touch her!” said Khadgar, and he raised his hand. Flames danced within his curled fingers.

 “You’re flirting with your own death,” snarled the sergeant. In the distance, Khadgar could hear the
heavy footfalls of horses. Reinforcements. But would they be any more willing to listen to a half-orc and a
spellcaster than this lot were?

“You’re making a horrible mistake, sir,” said Khadgar, keeping his voice level.

“Stay out of this, boy,” commanded the sergeant. “Take the orc. Kill her if she resists!”

 The footmen took another step forward, those closest to Garona bending down to grab her again. She
tried to squirm away and one kicked her with a heavy boot.

Khadgar bit back tears and unleashed the spell against the sergeant. The ball of flame slammed into his
knee. The sergeant howled and dropped to the ground.

“Now stop this,” hissed Khadgar.

“Kill them!” shouted the sergeant, his eyes wide in pain. “Kill them both!”

 “Hold!” came another voice, darker and deeper, muffled by a great helm. The horsemen had arrived in
the town square. About twenty riders, and Khadgar’s heart sank. More here than even Garona could
take care of. Their leader was in full armor, with a visored helm. Khadgar could not see his face.

The young apprentice rushed forward. “Sir,” he said. “Call off these men. I am the apprentice to Magus
Medivh.”

“I know who you are,” said the commander. “Stand down!” he ordered. “Keep the orc guarded, but let
her go!”

 Khadgar gulped and continued. “I have a prisoner and important information for King Llane. I need to
see Lord Lothar, at once!”

The commander lifted his visor. “So you shall, lad,” said Lothar. “So you shall.”


 Fifteen
 Beneath Karazhan
 The discussion at Stormwind Castle had not gone well, and now they were circling Medivh’s Tower on
gryphon-back. Beneath them, in the gathering dusk, Karazhan loomed large and empty. No lights shone
from any of its windows, and the observatory atop the structure was dark. Beneath a now-moonless sky,
even the pale stones of the tower were dark and brooding.

There had been a heated discussion in the King’s Privy Quarters the previous evening. Khadgar and
Garona were there, although the half-orc was asked to surrender her knife to Lothar in the presence of
His Majesty. The King’s Champion was there as well, and a gaggle of advisors and courtiers all hovering
around King Llane. Khadgar could not smell a single spellcaster in the group, and surmised that any that
had survived Medivh’s poaching were either on the battlefield or squirreled away for safekeeping.

 As for the King himself, the young man from the early visions had grown up. He had the broad shoulders
and sharp features of his youth, only now starting to surrender to middle age. Of all present, he was
resplendent, and his blue robes shone among the others. He kept an open-faced helm to one side of his
seat, a great helm with white wings, as if he expected to be called onto the battlefield at any moment.

 Khadgar wondered if such a call was not exactly what Llane desired, remembering the headstrong youth
of the troll-vision. A direct conflict on an open and level field, with his forces’ eventual triumph never in
doubt. He wondered how much of the assuredness derived from the faith in the Magus’s eventual
support. Indeed, it seemed that one led naturally to the other—that the Magus will always support
Stormwind, and Stormwind will always hold as a result of the Magus’s support.

 The healers had tended to Garona’s split lip, but could do nothing for her temper. Several times
Khadgar winced as she bluntly described the orcish opinions of the master mage’s sanity, of the paleskins
in general, and Llane’s troops in particular.

“The orcs are relentless,” she said. “And they will not let up. They will be back.”

 “They did not get within bowshot of the walls,” countered Llane. To Khadgar, his majesty seemed more
amused than alarmed by Garona’s direct manner and blunt warnings.

 “They did not get within bowshot of the walls,” repeated Garona. “This time. Next time they will. And
the time after that they will get over the walls. I don’t think you are taking the orcs sufficiently seriously,
sire.”

 “I assure you, I take this very seriously,” said Llane. “But I am also aware of the strengths of Stormwind.
Of its walls, of its armies, of its allies, and of its heart. Perhaps if you saw them, you too would be less
confident in the power of the orcs.”

 Llane was similarly adamant about the Magus as well. Khadgar laid everything out before the privy
council, with assurances and additions from Garona. The visions of the past, the erratic behavior, the
visions that were not visions at all but rather true demonstrations of Sargeras’s presence in Karazhan. Of
Medivh’s culpability in the present assault on Azeroth.

 “If I had a silver groat for every man who has told me that Medivh is mad, I would be richer than I am
today,” said Llane. “He has a plan, young sir. It’s as simple as that. More times than I can count he has
gone off on some mad dash or another, and Lothar here had worried his beard to tatters. And each time
he’s proved to be right. The last time he was here did he not hare off to hunt a demon, and bring it back
within a few hours? Hardly the action of one demon-possessed to decapitate one of his own.”

“But it might be the action of one who was trying to maintain his own innocence,” put in Garona. “No
one saw him kill this demon, in the heart of your city. Could he not have summoned it up, then killed and
provided it as the one responsible?”

“Supposition,” grumbled the king. “No. With respect to both of you, I do not deny that you saw what
you saw. Not even these ‘visions’ of the past. But I think the Magus is crazy like a fox, and all this is part
of some larger plan of his. He always speaks of larger plans and greater cycles.”
“With all due respect,” said Khadgar. “The Magus may have a larger plan, but the question is, does
Stormwind and Azeroth truly have a place within that plan?”

 So went most of the evening. King Llane was adamant on all points—that Azeroth could, with their
allies, destroy or drive back the orc hordes to its home world, that Medivh was working on some plan
that no one else could understand, and that Stormwind could withstand any assault “as long as men with
stout hearts were manning the walls and the throne.”

Lothar for his part was mostly silent, only breaking in to ask a relevant question, then shaking his head
when Khadgar or Garona gave him a truthful answer. Finally, he spoke up.

 “Llane, don’t let your security blind you!” he said. “If we cannot count on Magus Medivh as an ally, we
are weakened. If we discount the capabilities of the orcs, we are lost. Listen to what they are saying!”

 “I am listening,” said the King. “But I hear not only with my head but with my heart. We spent many
years with young Medivh, both before and during his long sleep. He remembers his friends. And once he
reveals his thinking, I’m sure even you will appreciate what a friend we have in the Magus.”

At last the King rose and dismissed all, promising to take the matters under proper consideration.
Garona was muttering under her breath, and Lothar gave them rooms without windows and with guards
on the doors, just to be sure.

 Khadgar tried to sleep, but the frustration kept him pacing the floor for most of the night. Finally, when
exhaustion had finally claimed him, there was a sound pounding on the door.

It was Lothar, in full armor, with a uniform draped over his arm. “Sleep like the dead, will you?” he said,
holding out the livery with a smile. “Put this on and meet us at the top of the tower in fifteen minutes. And
hurry, lad.”

Khadgar struggled into the gear, which included trousers, heavy boots, blue livery marked with the lion
of Azeroth, and heavy-bladed sword. He thought twice about the sword, but slung it onto his back. It
might prove useful.

There were no less than six gryphons clustered on the towers, rustling their great wings in agitation.
Lothar was there, and Garona as well. She was similarly dressed to Khadgar, with the blue tabard
marked with the lion of Azeroth, and a heavy sword.

“Don’t,” she growled at him, “say a word.”

“You look very good in it,” he said. “It goes with your eyes.”

 Garona snorted. “Lothar said the same thing. He tried to convince me by saying that you were wearing
the outfit, too.And that he wanted to make sure that none of the others shot me thinking I was someone
else.”

 “Others?” said Khadgar, and looked around. In the morning light, it was clear that there were other
flights of gryphons on other towers. Around six, including theirs, the gryphons’ wings pink with the
unrisen sun. He was unaware that there were this many trained gryphons in the world, much less
Stormwind. Lothar must have gone to talk to the dwarves. The air was cold and sharp as a dagger thrust.
Lothar hurried up to them, and adjusted Khadgar’s sword so he could ride gryphon-back with it.

 “His Majesty,” grumbled Lothar, “has an abiding faith in the strength of the people of Azeroth and the
thickness of the walls of Stormwind. It doesn’t hurt that he also has good people who take care of things
when he’s wrong.”

“Like us,” said Khadgar, grimly.

“Like us,” repeated Lothar. He looked at Khadgar hard and added, “I had asked you how he was, you
know.”

 “Yes,” said Khadgar. “And I told you the truth, or as much of it as I understood it at the time. And I felt
loyal to him.”

“I understand,” said Lothar. “And I feel loyal to him as well. I want to make sure what you say is true.
But I also want you to be able to do what needs to be done, if we have to do it.”

Khadgar nodded. “You believe me, don’t you?”

 Lothar nodded grimly. “Long ago, when I was your age, I was tending to Medivh. He was in his coma,
then, that long sleep that denied him much of his youth. I thought it was a dream, but I swore there was
another man opposite me, also watching over the Magus. He seemed to be made of burnished brass, and
he had heavy horns on his brow, and his beard made of flames.”

“Sargeras,” said Khadgar.

 Lothar let out a deep breath. “I thought I had fallen asleep, that it was a dream, that it could not be what
I thought it was. You see, I too felt loyal to him. But I never forgot what I saw. And as the years passed I
began to realize that I had seen a bit of the truth, and that it may come to this. We may yet save Medivh,
but we might find that the darkness is too deeply rooted. Then we will have to do something sudden,
horrible, and absolutely necessary. The question is—Are you up to it?”

 Khadgar thought for a moment, then nodded. His stomach felt like ice. Lothar raised a hand. On his
command, the other flights of gryphons strained aloft, springing to life as the first rays of the dawn crested
the earth’s rim, the new sunlight catching their wings and turning them golden.

The chill feeling in the pit of Khadgar’s stomach did not ebb on the long flight to Karazhan. Garona rode
behind him, but neither spoke as the land fled beneath their wings.

 The land had changed beneath their wings. Great fields were little more than blackened wreckage,
dotted by the remnants of toppled foundations. Forests were uprooted to feed the engines of war,
creating huge scars in the landscape. Open pits yawned wide, the earth itself wounded and stripped to
reach the metals beneath. Columns of smoke rose up along the horizon, though whether they were from
battlefields or forges Khadgar could not say. They flew through the day and the sun was ebbing along the
horizon now.

 Karazhan rose like an ebon shadow at the center of its crater, sucking in the last dying rays of the day
and giving nothing back. No lights shone from the tower nor from any of the hollow windows. The
torches that flamed without consuming their source had been extinguished. Khadgar wondered if Medivh
had fled.
 Lothar kneed his gryphon down, and Khadgar followed, quickly setting down, and slipping from the
back of the winged beast. As soon as he touched the ground, the gryphon shot aloft again, letting out a
shrieking cry and heading north.

 The Champion of Azeroth was already at the stairs, his huge shoulders tensed, his heavy frame moving
with the quiet, agile grace of a cat, his blade drawn. Garona slunk forward as well, her hand dipping into
her tabbard and coming up with her long-bladed dagger. The heavy blade from Stormwind clattered
against Khadgar’s hip, and he felt like a clumsy creature of stone compared to the other two. Behind him,
more gryphons landed and discharged their warriors.

 The observatory parapet was empty, and the upper level of the master mage’s study deserted but not
empty. There were still tools scattered about, and the smashed remnants of the golden device, an
astrolabe, rested on the mantel. So if the tower was truly abandoned, it was done quickly.

Or it had not been abandoned at all.

 Torches were fired and the party descended the myriad stairs, with Lothar, Garona, and Khadgar in the
lead. Once these walls were familiar, were home, the many stairs a daily challenge. Now, the
wall-mounted torches, with their cool, frozen flame, had been extinguished, and the moving torches of the
invaders cast myriad armed shadows against the wall, giving the halls an alien, almost nightmarish cast.
The very walls seemed to hold menace, and Khadgar expected every darkened doorway to hold a
deadly ambush.

 There was nothing. The galleries were empty, the banquet halls bare, the meeting rooms as devoid of life
and furnishings as ever. The guest quarters were still furnished, but unoccupied. Khadgar checked his
own quarters: Nothing had changed there.

 Now the torchlight cast strange shadows on the walls of the library, twisting the iron frames and turning
the bookcases into battlements. The books were untouched, and even Khadgar’s most recent notes
were still on the table. Had Medivh not thought enough of the library to take any of his volumes?

Tatters of paper caught Khadgar’s eye, and he crossed to the shelves containing the epic poetry. This
was new. Fragments of a scroll, now smashed and torn. Khadgar picked up a large piece, read a few
words, then nodded.

“What is it?” said Lothar, looking like he expected the books to come to life at any moment and attack.

“‘The Song of Aegwynn,’” said Khadgar. “An epic poem about his mother.”

 Lothar grunted a note of understanding, but Khadgar wondered. Medivh had been here, after they had
left. Yet only to destroy the scroll? Out of harsh memories of the Magus’s conflict with his mother? Out
of revenge for Sargeras’s decisive loss to Aegwynn? Or did the act of destroying the scroll, the cipher
used by the Guardians of Tirisfal, symbolize his resignation and final betrayal of the group?

 Khadgar risked a simple spell—one used to divine magical presences—but came up with nothing more
than the normal response when surrounded by magical tomes. If Medivh had cast a spell here, he had
masked its presence sufficiently to beat anything Khadgar could manage.

 Lothar noted the young mage tracing symbols into the air, and when he was done, said, “You’d best
save your strength for when we find him.”
Khadgar shook his head and wondered if they were going to find the Magus.

 They found Moroes, instead, at the lowest level, near the entrance to the kitchen and larder. His
crumpled form was splayed in the middle of the hallway, a bloody rainbow arcing along the floor to one
side. His eyes were wide and open, but his face was surprisingly composed. Not even death seemed to
surprise the castellan.

 Garona dodged into the kitchen, and returned a moment later. Her face was a paler shade of green, and
she held something up for Khadgar to see.

A set of rose-colored lenses, smashed. Cook. Khadgar nodded.

 The bodies seemed to make the troops more alert now, and they moved to the great vault-like
entranceway, and out into the courtyard itself. There had been no sign of Medivh, and only a few broken
clues of his passing.

“Could he have another lair?” Lothar asked. “Another place he would hide?”

“He was often gone,” said Khadgar. “Sometimes gone for days, then reappearing without warning.”
Something moved along the balcony overlooking the main entrance—just a slight wavering of the air.
Khadgar started and stared at the location, but it looked normal.

“Perhaps he went to the orcs, to lead them,” suggested the Champion.

Garona shook her head. “They would never accept a human leader.”

 “He couldn’t vanish into thin air!” thundered Lothar. To the troops he shouted, “Form up! We’re going
to head back!”

Garona ignored the Champion, then said, “He didn’t. Back into the tower.” She parted the troops like a
boat cutting through a choppy sea.

 She disappeared once more in the open maw of the tower. Lothar looked at Khadgar, who shrugged
and followed the half-orc.

Moroes had not moved, his blood smeared across the floor in a quarter circle, away from the wall.
Garona touched that wall, as if trying to feel something along it. She frowned, cursed, and slapped the
wall, which gave a very solid response.

“It should be here,” she said.

“What should be?” asked Khadgar.

“A door,” said the half-orc.

“There’s never been a door here,” said Khadgar.

 “There’salways been a door, probably,” said Garona. “You’ve just never seen it. Look. Moroes died
here,” she stomped her foot next to the wall, “And then his body was moved, creating the smear of blood
in the quarter-circle, to where we found it.”
Lothar grunted assent, and started to run his hands along the wall as well.

Khadgar looked at the apparently blank wall. He had passed it five or six times a day. There should be
nothing but earth and stone on the far side. Still…

“Stand away,” the young mage said. “Let me try something.”

The Champion and half-orc stood back, and Khadgar pulled the energies together for a spell. He has
used it before, on real doors and locked books, but this was the first time he tried to work it on a door
he could not see. He tried to envision the door, figuring how large it would have to be to move Moroes’s
body in the quarter circle, where the hinges would be, where the frame would be, and, if he wanted to
keep it secure, where he would place the locks.

 He envisioned the door, and flung a bit of magic into its unseen frame to unfasten those hidden locks.
Half to his surprise, the wall shifted, and a seam appeared along one side. Not a lot, but enough to define
the clear edges of a door that had not been there a moment before.

 “Use your swords and pry it open,” snarled Lothar, and the squad surged forward. The stone door
resisted their attempts for a few moments, until some mechanism within it snapped loudly and the door
swung outward, nuzzling Moroes’s corpse as it did so, and revealed a stairway descending into the
depths.

“He didn’t vanish into thin air,” said Garona grimly. “He stayed here, but went someplace no one else
knew about.”

Khadgar looked at Moroes’s crumpled form. “Almost no one. But I wonder what else he has hidden.”

 They moved down the stairs, and a sense grew within Khadgar. While the upper levels felt spookily
abandoned, the depths beneath the tower had a palpable aura of immediate menace and foreboding. The
rough-hewn walls and floor were moist, and in the light of the torches seemed to undulate like living flesh.

 It took a moment for Khadgar to realize that as the stairs continued to spiral down, they now had
reversed their direction, moving opposite to the tower above, as if this descent was a mirror of that
above.

Indeed, where an empty meeting room would be within the tower, here was a dungeon bedecked with
unoccupied iron chains. Where a banquet hall stood unused above the surface was a room strewn with
detritus and marked with mystic circles. The air felt heavy and oppressive here, as it had in the tower in
Stormwind, where Huglar and Hugarin had been slain. Here was where the demon that attacked them
had been summoned.

 When they reached the level that mirrored the library, they found a set of iron-shod doors. The stairs
continued to spiral down into the earth, but the company was brought up short here, regarding the mystic
symbols carved deeply into the wood and dabbed with brownish blood. It seemed as if the wood itself
was bleeding. Two huge rings of iron hung from the wounded doors.

“This would be the library,” said Khadgar.

Lothar nodded. He had noted the similarities between the tower and this burrow as well. “See what he
keeps here, if the books are all upstairs.”
 Garona said, “His study is at the top of the tower, with his observatory, so if heis here, he should be at
the very bottom. We should press on.”

 But she was too late. As Khadgar touched the iron-shod doors, a spark leapt from his palm to the door,
a signal, a magical trap. Khadgar had time to curse as the doors were flung open, back into the darkness
of the library.

 A kennel. Sargeras had no need for knowledge, so he turned the room over to his pets. The creatures
lived within a darkness of their own making, and acrid smoke wafted out into the hallway.

 There were eyes within. Eyes and flaming maws and bodies made of fire and shadow. They stalked
forward, snarling.

 Khadgar sketched runes in the air, pulling the energy together in his mind, to pull the doors closed again,
as soldiers struggled with the great rings shut again. Neither spellcraft nor muscle could move the rings.

The beasts let out a harsh, choppy laugh, and crouched to spring.

Khadgar raised his hands to cast another spell, but Lothar batted them down.

“This is to waste your time and energy,” he said. “It is to delay us. Head down and find Medivh.”

“But they are…” started Khadgar, and the large demon-beast in the front leapt at them.

Lothar took two steps forward and brought up his blade to meet the leaping beast. As he pulled his
blade upward, the runes etched deep into the metal blazed with a bright yellow light. For a half-second,
Khadgar saw fear in the eyes of the demon-beast.

 And then the arc of Lothar’s cut intersected with the demon-beast’s leap and the blade bit deep into the
creature’s flesh. Lothar’s blade erupted from the creature’s back, and he neatly bisected the forward
portion of its torso in two. The beast had only a moment to squeal in pain as the blade pulled forward
through its skull, completing the arch. The smoldering wreckage of the demon-beast, weeping fire and
bleeding shadow, fell at Lothar’s feet.

“Go!” thundered the Champion. “We’ll take care of this and catch up.”

 Garona grabbed Khadgar, and pulled him down the stairs. Behind them, the soldiers had pulled their
blades, as well, and the runes danced in brilliant flames as they drank deep of the shadows. The young
mage and half-orc rounded the curve of the stairs, and behind them they heard the cries of the dying,
from both human and inhuman throats.

 They spiraled into the darkness, Garona holding a torch in one hand, dagger in the other. Now Khadgar
noticed that the walls glowed with their own faint phosphorescence, a reddish hue like some nocturnal
mushrooms deep within the forest. It was also growing warmer, and the sweat was beading along his
forehead.

 As they came to one of the dining halls, suddenly Khadgar’s stomach wrenched and they were
somewhere else. It moved suddenly upon them, like a leading edge of a summer storm.

They were atop one of the larger towers of Stormwind, and around them the city was in flames. Pillars
of smoke rose from all sides, spreading into a black blanket above that snared the sun. A similar blanket
of blackness surrounded the city walls, but this was made of orcish troops. From their viewpoint
Khadgar and Garona could see the armies spread out like beetles on the verdant corpse that had been
Stormwind’s cropland. Now there were only siege towers and armed grunts, the colors of their banners
a sickening rainbow.

 The forests were gone as well, transformed into catapults that now rained fire down on the city itself.
Most of the lower city was in flames, and as Khadgar watched, a section of the outer walls collapsed,
and small dolls dressed in green and blue fought each other among the rubble.

“How did we get…?” started Garona.

 “Vision,” said Khadgar bluntly, but he wondered if this was a random occurrence of the tower, or
another delaying action by the Magus.

“I told the King. I told him, but he would not listen,” she muttered. To Khadgar she said, “This is a vision
of the future, then? How do we get out of the vision?”

The young mage shook his head. “We don’t, at least for the moment. In the past these would come and
go. Sometimes a good shock will break it.”

 A flaming piece of debris, a fiery missile from a catapult, passed within bowshot of the tower. Khadgar
could feel the heat as it fell to earth.

Garona looked around. “At least it’s just orc armies,” she said grimly.

“That’s good news?” said Khadgar, his eyes stinging as a column of smoke wafted over the tower.

“No demons in the orc armies,” noted the half-orc. “If Medivh was with them, we would see much
worse as well. Maybe we convinced him to help.”

 “I’m not seeing Medivh among our troops, either,” said Khadgar, forgetting who he was speaking to for
the moment. “Is he dead? Did he flee?”

“How far in the future are we?” asked Garona.

 Behind them, there was a rise of voices in argument. The pair turned away from the parapet and saw
that they were outside one of the royal audience halls, now converted into a coordination center against
the assault. A small model of the city had been laid out on the table, and toy soldiers in the shapes of men
and orcs were scattered around it. There was a constant flow of reports coming in as King Llane and his
advisors hunched over the table.

“Breech along the Merchant’s District Wall!”

“More fires in the lower city!”

“Large forces massing at the main gates again. It looks like spellcasters!”

 Khadgar noted that none of the earlier courtiers were now present, replaced with grim-faced men in
uniforms similar to their own. No sign of Lothar at the table, and Khadgar hoped he was on the front
lines, carrying the battle to the foe.
 Llane moved with a deft hand, as if his city was attacked on a regular basis. “Bring up the Fourth and
Fifth Company to reinforce the breech. Get the militia to organize bucket brigades—take the water from
the public baths. And bring up two squads of lancers to the main gate. When the orcs are about to
attack, then launch a sortie against them. That will break the assault. Bring two mages over from the
Goldsmith’s street; are they done there?”

“That assault has been turned,” came the report. “The mages are exhausted.”

 Llane nodded and said, “Have them stand down, then, pull back for an hour. Bring the younger mages
from the academy instead. Send twice as many, but tell them to be careful. Commander Borton, I want
your forces on the East wall. That’s where I would hit next, if I were them.”

 To each commander in turn, Llane gave an assignment. There was no argument, no discussion, no
suggestions. Each warrior in turn nodded and left. In the end, all that was left was King Llane and his
small model of a city that was now in flames outside his window.

 The king leaned forward, resting his knuckles on the table. His face looked worn and old. He looked up
and said to the empty air, “You can make your report now.”

The curtains opposite hissed against the floor as Garona stepped out. The half-orc at Khadgar’s side let
out a gasp in surprise.

The future Garona was dressed in her customary black pants and black silk blouse, but wore a cloak
marked with the lion’s head of Azeroth. She had a wild look in her eyes. The present Garona gripped
Khadgar’s arm, and he could feel her nails dig into his arm.

 “Bad news, sire,” said Garona, approaching the King’s side of the table. “The various clans are working
together in this assault, unified under the Blackhand the Destroyer. None of them will betray the others
until after Stormwind has fallen. Gul’dan is bringing up his warlocks by nightfall. Until then, the Blackrock
clan will be trying to take the Eastern Wall.” Khadgar heard a tremor in the half-orc’s voice.

Llane let out a deep sigh, and said, “Expected and countered. We will throw this one back, just like the
others. And we will hold until the reinforcements come. As long as men with stout hearts are manning the
walls and the throne, Stormwind will hold.”

 The future-Garona nodded, and Khadgar now saw that large tears were pooling in the corners of her
eyes. “The orc leaders agree with your assessment,” she said, and her hand dipped into her black blouse.

 Both Khadgar and the real Garona shouted as one as the future-Garona pulled her long-bladed dagger
and shoved it upward beneath the King’s left breast. She moved with a quickness and grace and left
King Llane with nothing more than a puzzled expression on his face. His eyes were wide, and for a
moment he hung there, suspended on her blade.

 “The orc leaders agree with your assessment,” she said again, and tears were running freely down the
sides of her wide face. “And have enlisted an assassin to remove that strong heart on the throne.
Someone you would let come close. Someone you would meet with alone.”

Llane, King of Azeroth, Master of Stormwind, ally of wizard and warrior, slid to the floor.

“I’m sorry,” said Garona.
 “No!”shouted Garona, the present Garona, as she slipped to the floor herself. Suddenly they were back
in the false dining hall. The wreckage of Stormwind was gone and the corpse of the king with it. The
half-orc’s tears remained, now in the eyes of the real Garona.

“I’m going to kill him,” she said in a small voice. “I’m going to kill him. He treated me well, and listened
when I talked, and I’m going to kill him. No.”

Khadgar knelt down besides her. “It’s okay. It may not be true. It may not happen. It’s a vision.”

“Its true,” she said. “I saw it and I knew that it was true.”

 Khadgar was silent for a moment, reliving his own vision of the future, beneath a red-hued sky, battling
Garona’s people. He saw it and knew it was true as well. “We have to go,” he said, but Garona just
shook her head. “After all this, I thought I found someplace better than the orcs. But now I know, I’m
going to destroy it all.”

 Khadgar looked up and down the stairs. No idea how Lothar’s men were doing with the demons, no
idea what lay at the base of the underground tower. His face formed a grim line, and he took a deep
breath.

And slapped Garona hard across the face.

His own palm bled from striking a tusk, but the response on Garona was immediate. Her teary eyes
widened and a mask of rage hardened on her expression.

“You idiot!” she shouted, and leapt on Khadgar bearing him over backward. “You never do that! You
hear me! Do that again and I’ll kill you!”

Khadgar was sprawled on his back, the half-orc on top of him. He didn’t even see her draw the dagger,
but now its blade was resting against the side of his neck.

 “You can’t,” he managed with a harsh smile. “I had a vision of my own future. I think its true as well. If it
is, then you can’t kill me now. Same thing applies to you.”

Garona blinked and rocked back on her haunches, suddenly in control again. “So if I am going to kill the
King…”

“You’re going to get out of here alive,” said Khadgar. “So am I.”

“But what if we’re wrong,” said Garona. “What if the vision is false?”

Khadgar pulled himself to his feet. “Then you die knowing that you’ll never kill the King of Azeroth.”

Garona sat for a moment, her mind working over the possibilities. At length she said, “Give me a hand
up. We have to move on.”

 They continued to spiral downward, through false analogs of the tower levels above. Finally they
reached the level that would be the uppermost level, of Medivh’s observatory and lair. Instead the stairs
spilled out on a reddish plain. It seemed to be poured out of cooling obsidian, dark, reflective puzzle
pieces floating on fire beneath their feet. Khadgar instinctively jumped back, but the footing seemed solid
and the heat, while sweltering, was not oppressive.
 In the center of the great cave was a simple collection of iron furniture. A work bench and stool, a few
chairs, a gathering of cabinets. For a moment it looked oddly familiar, then Khadgar realized that it was
set up in an exact duplicate to Medivh’s tower room.

 Standing among the iron furniture was the broad-shouldered form of the Magus. Khadgar strained to see
something in his manner, in his bearing, that would betray him, that would reveal this figure to not be the
Medivh he had come to know and trust, the older man who had shown his faith and encouraged his
work. Something that would declare this to be an imposter.

There was nothing. This was the only Medivh he had ever known.

 “Hello, Young Trust,” said the Magus and flames ignited along his beard as he smiled. “Hello, Emissary.
I’ve been expecting you both.”


 Sixteen
 The Breaking of a Mage
 It was inspired, I must say,” said the Medivh who was and was not Medivh. “Inspired to summon the
shadow of my past, a piece that would stop me from pursuing you. Of course, while you were out
gathering your strength, I was out gathering my own.”

 Khadgar looked at Garona and nodded. The half-orc moved a few steps to the right. They would
surround the old man if they had to.

 “Master, what happened to you?” said Khadgar, taking a step forward, trying to focus the Magus’s
attention on him.

 The older mage laughed. “Happened to me? Nothing happened to me. This is who I am. I was tainted
from birth, polluted from before my conception, a bad seed grown to bear bitter fruit. You have never
seen the true Medivh.”

 “Magus, whatever has happened, I’m sure it can be fixed,” said Khadgar, walking slowly toward him.
Garona orbited out to the right, and her long-bladed dagger had vanished again—her hands were
apparently empty.

 “Why should I fix it?” said Medivh with an evil smile. “All goes as planned. The orcs will slay the humans
and I will control them through warlock-chiefs like Gul’dan. I will lead these misshapened creations to the
lost tomb where Sargeras’s body is, protected against demon and human but not against orc, and my
form will be free. And then I can shed this lumpish body and weakened spirit and burn this world as it so
richly deserves.”

Khadgar stepped to the left as he spoke. “You are Sargeras.”

 “Yes and no,” said the Magus. “I am, for when Aegwynn killed my physical body I hid within her womb,
and invested her very cells with my dark essence. When she finally chose to mate with a human mage, I
was already there. Medivh’s dark twin, completly subsumed within his form.”
“Monstrous,” said Khadgar.

Medivh grinned. “Little different than what Aegwynn had planned, for she placed the power of the
Tirisfalen within the child as well. Small wonder that there was so little room for the young Medivh
himself, with the demon and the light both fighting over his very soul. So when the power truly manifested
within him, I shut him down for a while, until I could put my own plans into operation.”

Khadgar continued to move left, trying not to watch as Garona crept up behind the older mage. Instead
he said, “Is there anything of the real Medivh within you?”

 “Some,” said Medivh. “Enough to deal with you lesser creatures. Enough to fool the kings and wizards
as to my intent. Medivh is a mask—I have left enough of him at the surface to display to others. And if in
my workings I seem odd or even mad, they write it off to my position and responsibility, and to the
power invested in me by my dear mother.”

 Medivh gave a predatory grin. “I was crafted first by Magna Aegwynn’s politics to be her tool, and then
shaped by demonic hands to be their tool. Even the Order saw me as little more than a weapon to be
used against demons. And so it not surprising at all that I am nothing more that the sum of my parts.”

Garona was behind the mage now, blade drawn, moving on the softest of steps on the obsidian floor.
There were no tears in her eyes, but rather a steely determination. Khadgar kept himself focused on
Medivh, not wanting to betray her with a single glance.

 “You see,” continued the mad mage, “I am nothing but one more component in the great machine, one
that has been running since the Well of Eternity was first shattered. The one thing that the original bits of
Medivh and myself agree on is that this cycle needs to be shattered. Of this, I assure you, we are of one
mind.”

Garona was within a step now, her dagger raised. She took the last step.

“Excuse me,” said Medivh, and lashed out with a fist. Mystic energies danced along the older man’s
knuckles, and he caught the half-orc square in the face. She staggered backward under the blow.

Khadgar let loose a curse and raised his hands to cast a spell. Something to knock the mage off his
balance. Something simple. Something quick.

 Medivh was quicker, turning back to him and raising a claw-like hand. Immediately, Khadgar felt the air
around him tighten into a restraining cloak, trapping his arms and legs and making it impossible for him to
move. He shouted but his voice sounded muffled and coming from a great distance.

 Medivh raised his other hand, and pain shot through Khadgar’s body. The joints of his skeleton seemed
to seethe with red-hot spikes that subsided quickly into dull, throbbing pains. His chest tightened, and his
flesh felt like it dried out and crawled along his frame. He felt like the fluids were being pulled from his
body, leaving a shriveled husk behind. And with it he felt his magic pulled away as well, his body drained
of his ability to cast spells, to summon the requisite energies. He felt like a vessel being emptied.

As suddenly as the attack descended upon him, it had passed, and Khadgar toppled to the floor, the
wind knocked out of him. It hurt his chest to breath.

 Garona had recovered at this point, and came in screaming this time, bringing her dagger-hand upward,
to catch Medivh beneath the left breast. Instead of trying to back up, Medivh stepped toward the
charging half-orc, inside the arc of her blow. He raised a hand and caught her forehead in his hand. She
froze in midcharge.

 Mystic energy of a sickening yellow hue pulsed beneath his hand and the half-orc hung there, her body
twitching helplessly, as the mage held her by the forehead.

“Poor, poor Garona,” said Medivh. “I thought with your conflicting heritages, you of all people would
understand what I’m going through. That you would understand the importance of making your own way.
But you’re just like the others, aren’t you?”

The wide-eyed half-orc could only manage a spittle-drenched gurgle in response.

“Let me show you my world, Garona,” said Medivh. “Let me drive my own divisions and doubts into
you. You’ll never know who you serve and why. You’ll never find your peace.”

Garona tried to scream, but it died in her throat as her face was bathed in a radiant sunburst issued from
Medivh’s palm.

Medivh laughed and let the half-orc collapse to the floor, sobbing. She tried to rise, but slumped again.
Her eyes were wide and wild, and her breath was short and ragged, torn by tears.

 Khadgar could breathe now, but the breath was short and tight. His joints burned, and his muscles
ached. He saw his reflection in the obsidian floor….

And it was the old man of the vision looking back at him. Heavy, tired eyes surrounded by wrinkles and
gray hair. Even his beard had turned white.

And Khadgar’s heart sank. Robbed of his youth, of his magic, he no longer felt like he would survive this
battle.

“That was instructive,” said Medivh, turning back to Khadgar. “One of the negative things about this
humaniform cell I am trapped in is that the human part keeps reaching out. Making friends. Helping
people. It makes it so difficult to destroy them later on. I almost wept when I killed Moroes and Cook,
did you know? That’s why I had to come down here. But it’s like anything else. Once you get used to it,
you can kill friends as easily as anyone else.”

 Now he stood a few paces in front of Khadgar, his shoulders straight, his eyes vibrant. Looking more
like Medivh than at any time Khadgar had seen him. Looking confident. Looking at ease. Looking
frighteningly, damnedly sane.

“And now you get to die, Young Trust,” said the Magus. “It seems your trust was misplaced after all.”
Medivh raised a hand cupped with magical energy.

There was a throaty scream from the right. “Medivh!” bellowed Lothar, Champion of Azeroth.

Medivh looked up, and his face seemed to soften for a moment, though his hand still burned with the
mystic power. “Anduin Lothar?” he said. “Old friend, why are you here?”

“Stop it now, Med,” said Lothar, and Khadgar could hear the pain the Champion’s voice. “Stop it
before it is too late. I don’t want to fight you.”
 “I don’t want to fight you either, old friend,” said Medivh raising his hand. “You have no idea what it’s
like to do the things I’ve done. Harsh things. Necessary things. I don’t want to fight you. So lay down
your weapon, friend, and let this be done.”

Medivh opened his palm and the bits of magic droned toward the Champion, bathing him in stars.

“You want to help me, don’t you, old friend,” said Medivh, the harsh smile once more on his face. “You
want to be my servant. Come help me dispose of this child. Then we can be friends again.”

 The spangling stars around Lothar faded, and the Champion took a slow, firm step forward, then
another, then a third, and now Lothar charged forward. As he charged, the Champion raised his
rune-carved blade high. He charged at Medivh, not at Khadgar. A curse rose in his voice, a curse
backed by sorrow and tears.

 Medivh was surprised, but just for a moment. He dodged backward and Lothar’s first cut passed
harmlessly through the space the Magus had occupied a half-second before. The Champion checked the
swing and brought it back in a solid blocking motion, driving the mage another step back. Then an
overhand chop, driving back another step.

 Now Medivh had recovered himself, and the next blow landed squarely on a shield of bluish energy, the
yellow fires of the sword spattering harmlessly like sparks. Lothar tried to cut upward, then thrust, then
chop again. Each attack was met and countered by the shield.

 Medivh snarled and raised a clawed hand, mystic energy dancing in his palm. Lothar screamed as his
clothes suddenly burst into flames. Medivh smiled at his handiwork, then waved his hand, tossing the
burning form of Lothar aside like a rag doll.

“Just. Gets. Easier,” said Medivh, biting off the words and turning back to where Khadgar had been
kneeling.

 Except Khadgar had moved. Medivh turned to find the no-longer young mage right behind him, with the
sword Lothar had provided drawn and pressed against the Magus’s left breast. The runes along the
blade glowed like miniature suns.

“Don’t even blink,” said Khadgar.

A moment paused, and a bead of sweat trickled down Medivh’s cheek.

“So it comes to this,” said the Magus. “I don’t think you have the skill or the will to use that properly,
Young Trust.”

 “I think,” said Khadgar, and it seemed that his voice wheezed and burbled as he spoke, “that the human
part of you, Medivh, kept others around despite your own plans. As a backup. As a plan for when you
finally went mad. So your friends could put you down. So we could break the cycle where you cannot.”

 Medivh managed a small sigh, and his features softened. “I never meant to really harm anyone,” he said.
“I only wanted to have my own life.” As he spoke, he jerked his hand upward, his palm glowing with
mystic energy, seeking to scramble Khadgar’s mind as he had Garona’s.

 Medivh never got the chance. At the first flinch, Khadgar lunged forward, driving the thin blade of the
runesword between Medivh’s ribs, into the heart.
Medivh looked surprised, even shocked, but his mouth still moved. He was trying to say something.

 Khadgar drove the blade home to the hilt, the tip erupting from the back of the mage’s robes. The mage
sunk to his knees, and Khadgar dropped with him as well, keeping his hands firmly locked on the blade.
The old mage gasped and struggled to say something.

“Thank you,” he managed at last. “I fought it for as long as I could….”

 Then the master mage’s face began to transform, the beard turning fully to flame, the horns sprouting
from his brow. With the death of Medivh, Sargeras finally came fully to the surface. Khadgar felt the hilt
of the runeblade grow warm, as the fires danced along Medivh’s flesh, transforming him to a thing of
shadow and flame.

Behind the kneeling, wounded Magus, Khadgar could see the smoldering form of Lothar rise once
more. The Champion stumbled forward, his flesh and armor still smoking. He raised his runeblade once
more, and brought it across in a hard, level swing.

 The edge of the blade burst like a sun as it struck Medivh’s neck, and severed the master mage’s head
from the neck in one smooth blow.

 It was like unstoppering a bottle, for everything within Medivh rushed out at once through ragged
remnants of his neck. A great torrent of energy and light, shadow and fire, smoke and rage, all spilling
upward like a fountain, splashing against the ceiling of the underground vault, and dissipating away.
Within the seething caldron of energies, Khadgar thought he could make out a horned face, crying in
despair and rage.

 And when it was over, all that was left was the skin and clothes of the Magus. All that was within him
had been eaten away, and now that his human form had been ripped asunder, there was no way to
contain it.

Lothar used the tip of his sword to stir aside the rags and flesh that had been Medivh and said, “We
need to go.”

 Khadgar looked around. There was no sign of Garona. The Magus’s head had boiled away all the flesh,
leaving only a glistening red-white skull.

The former apprentice shook his head. “I need to stay here. Attend to a few things.”

Lothar growled, “The greatest danger may be passed, but the obvious one is still there. We have to
drive back the orcs and close the portal.”

 Khadgar thought of the vision, of Stormwind burning and Llane’s death. He thought of his own vision, of
his now-aged form in final battle with the orcs. Instead he said, “I must bury what’s left of Medivh. I
should find Garona. She couldn’t have gone far.”

Lothar grunted an assent and shambled toward the entrance. At last he turned and said, “It couldn’t
have been helped, you know. We tried to alter it, but it was all part of a larger scheme.”

Khadgar nodded slowly, “I know. All part of a greater cycle. A cycle that now at last may be broken.”
 Lothar left the former apprentice beneath the citadel, and Khadgar gathered up what was left of the
physical remains of the Magus. He found a shovel and a wooden box in the stable. He put the skull and
the bits of skin in the box with the tattered remains of “The Song of Aegwynn,” and buried them all deep
in the courtyard in view of the tower. Perhaps later he would raise a monument, but for the time being it
would be best to not let others know where the master mage’s remains were. After he had finished
burying the Magus, he dug two more graves, human-sized, and laid Moroes and Cook to rest to one side
of Medivh.

 He let out a deep sigh, and looked up at the tower. White-stoned Karazhan, home of the most mighty
mage of Azeroth, the Last Guardian of the Order of Tirisfal loomed above him. Behind him the sky was
lightening, and the sun threatened to touch the topmost level of the tower.

 Something else caught his eye, above the empty, entrance hall, along the balcony overlooking the main
entrance. A bit of movement, a fragment of a dream. Khadgar let out a deeper sigh and nodded at the
ghostly trespasser that watched his every move.

“I can see you, now, you know,” he said aloud.


 Epilogue
 Full Circle
The trespasser from the future looked down from the balcony at the no-longer young man of the past.

“How long have you been able to see me?” asked the trespasser.

“I have felt bits of you as long as I have been here,” said Khadgar. “From my first day. How long have
you been there?”

“Most of an evening,” said the trespasser in his tattered red robes. “The dawn is coming up here.”

“Here as well,” said the former apprentice. “Perhaps that is why we can talk. You are a vision, but
different than any I have seen before. We can see each other and converse. Are you future or past?”

“Future,” said the trespasser. “Do you know who I am?”

 “Your form is different than when I last saw you, you are younger, and calmer, but yes, I know,” said
Khadgar. He motioned toward the three heaps of turned earth—two large and one small. “I thought I
just buried you.”

“You did,” said the trespasser. “At least you buried much of what was the worst about me.”

“And now you’re back. Or you will be back,” said Khadgar. “Different, but the same.”

The trespasser nodded. “In many ways, I was never here the first time around.”

“More is the pity,” said Khadgar. “So what are you in the future? Magus? Guardian? Demon?”
 “Be reassured. I am a better being than I was,” said the trespasser. “I am free of the taint of Sargeras
thanks to your actions this day. Now I may deal directly with the Lord of the Burning Legion. Thank you.
There cannot be success without sacrifice.”

 “Sacrifice,” said Khadgar, the words bitter in his mouth. “Tell me this then, ghost of the future. Is all that
we have seen true? Will Stormwind truly fall? Will Garona slay King Llane? Must I die, in this aged flesh,
in some nether-spawned land?”

 The being on the balcony paused for a long moment, and Khadgar feared that he would fade away.
Instead he said, “As long as there are Guardians, there is Order. And as long as there is Order, the parts
are there to be played. Decisions made millennia ago set both your path and mine. It is part of greater
cycle, one that has held us all in its sway.”

 Khadgar craned his head upward. The sun was now touching the top half of the tower. “Perhaps there
should not be Guardians then, if this has been the price.”

 “Agreed,” said the trespasser, and as the strong light of day began to grow, he began to fade. “But for
the moment, for your moment, we must all play our part. We all must pay this price. And then, when we
have the chance, we will start anew.”

 And with that the trespasser was gone, the last fragments of his being swept back into the future by an
errant wind of magic.

 Khadgar shook his aged head and looked at the three newly-dug graves. Lothar’s surviving men took
their dead and wounded back with them to Stormwind. There was no sign of Garona, and though
Khadgar would search the tower once more, he doubted that she was within. He would take what books
he thought were valuable, what supplies he could, and set protective wards over the rest. Then he would
leave as well, and follow Lothar into battle.

Hefting his shovel, he walked back into the now-abandoned keep of Karazhan, and wondered if he
would ever return.



 As the trespasser spoke a small breeze kicked up, a mere churning of the leaves, but it was enough to
scatter the vision. The no-longer young man broke up and faded like dying fog, and the no-longer old
man watched him go.

 A single tear ran down the side of Medivh’s face. So much sacrifice, so much pain. Both to keep the
plan of the Guardians in place, and then so much sacrifice to break that plan, to break the world free of
its lock-step. To bring about true peace.

 And now, even that was at risk. Now one more sacrifice would have to be made. He would have to pull
the power from this place if he would succeed in what was to come. In the final conflict with the Burning
Legion.

The sun had risen farther now, and was almost to the level of his balcony. He would have to work
quickly now.

He raised a hand, and the clouds began to swirl above the peak of the tower. Slowly first, then more
quickly, until the upper ranges of the tower itself were encased within a hurricane.

 Now he reached deep within himself, and released the words, words made up of equal parts regret and
anger, words caught within him since the day that his life ended the first time. Words that laid claim to the
whole of that previous life, for good and ill. Accepting its power, and in doing so, accepting the
responsibility for what was done the last time he wore flesh.

 The hurricane around the tower howled, and the tower itself resisted his claim. He stated it again, and
then a third time, shouting to be heard over the winds that he himself had summoned. Slowly, almost
grudgingly, the tower gave up its secrets.

 The power burned from within the stones and mortars, and leached outward, channeled by the force of
the winds toward the base, toward Medivh. All the visions began to bubble loose of its fabric, and
stream downward. The fall of Sargeras, with its hundreds of screaming demons, fell in on him, as did the
final conflict with Aegwynn and Khadgar’s own battle beneath the dull red sun. Medivh’s appearance
before Gul’dan and the boyish battles of three young nobles and Moroes breaking Cook’s favorite
crystal, all were pulled into him. And with those visions came memories, and with those memories
responsibilities. This must be avoided. This must never happen again. This must be corrected.

 So too did the images and power leach upward from the hidden tower, from the pits beneath the tower
itself. The fall of Stormwind flamed upward at him, and the death of Llane, and the myriad demons
summoned in the middle of the night and unleashed against those in the Order too close to the truth. All of
them fountained upward and were consumed within the form of the mage standing on the balcony.

All the shards, all the pieces of history, known and unrevealed, spiraled down the tower or rose from its
dungeons and flowed into the man who had been the Last Guardian of Tirisfal. The pain was great, but
Medivh grimaced and accepted it, taking the energy and the bittersweet memories it bore with equal
measure.

 The last image to fade was the one beneath the balcony itself, an image of a young man, a rucksack at
his feet, a letter marked with the crimson seal of the Kirin Tor, hope in his heart and butterflies in his
stomach. That youth was the last to fade, as he moved slowly toward the entrance, the magic surrounding
his vision, his shard of the past, spiraled upward, unraveling him and letting the energy pass into the
former Magus. As the last bit of Khadgar fell into him, a tear pooled at the corner of Medivh’s eye.

Medivh held both hands to his chest tightly, containing all that he had regained. The tower of Karazhan
was just a tower now, a pile of stone in the remote reaches, far from the traveled paths. Now the power
of the place was within him. And the responsibility to do better with it, this time.

“And so we start anew,” says Medivh.

And with that, he transformed into a raven, and was gone.


 About the Author
 Jeff Grubb is the author ofStarcraft: Liberty’s Crusade. He is also author or coauthor of books in the
Forgotten Realms, Dragonlance, and Magic: The Gathering Lines. His job is building worlds, his hobby is
explaining them to other people. He lives in Seattle with his wife and oft-times cowriter Kate Novak, and
two cats.
This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are products of the author's
imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons living or dead
is entirely coincidental.


AnOriginalPublication of POCKET BOOKS




    POCKET BOOKS, a division of Simon & Schuster, Inc. 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New
York, NY 10020


Visit us on the World Wide Web:
http://www.SimonSays.com


Copyright © 2001 by Blizzard Entertainment


All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever.
For information address Pocket Books, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020


ISBN: 0-7434-2315-1



POCKET and colophon are registered trademarks of Simon & Schuster, Inc.




ONE



War.

 It had once seemed to some of the Kirin Tor, the magical conclave that ruled the small nation of Dalaran,
that the world of Azeroth had never known anything but constant bloodshed. There had been the trolls,
before the forming of the Alliance of Lordaeron, and when at last humanity had dealt with that foul
menace, the first wave of orcs had descended upon the lands, appearing out of a horrific rip in the very
fabric of the universe. At first, nothing had seemed able to stop these grotesque invaders, but gradually
what had looked to be a horrible slaughter had turned instead into an agonizing stalemate. Battles had
been won by attrition. Hundreds had died on both sides, all seemingly for no good reason. For years, the
Kirin Tor had foreseen no end.

 But that had finally changed. The Alliance had at last managed to push back the Horde, eventually
routing them entirely. Even the orcs' great chieftain, the legendary Orgrim Doomhammer, had been
unable to stem the advancing armies and had finally capitulated. With the exception of a few renegade
clans, the surviving invaders had been rounded up into enclaves and kept under secure watch by military
units led personally by members of the Knights of the Silver Hand. For the first time in many, many years,
lasting peace looked to be a promise, not a faint wish.

 And yet . . . a sense of unease still touched the senior council of the Kirin Tor. Thus it was that the
highest of the high met in the Chamber of the Air, so-called because it seemed a room without walls, only
a vast, ever-changing sky with clouds, light, and darkness, racing past the master wizards as if the time of
the world had sped up. Only the gray, stone floor with its gleaming diamond symbol, representing the
four elements, gave any solidity to the scene.

 Certainly the wizards themselves did nothing in that regard, for they, clad in their dark cloaks that
covered not only face but form, seemed to waver with the movements of the sky, almost as if they, too,
were but illusion. Although their numbers included both men and women, the only sign of that was
whenever one of them spoke, at which point a face would become partially visible, if somewhat indistinct
in detail.

 There were six this meeting, the six most senior, although not necessarily the most gifted. The leaders of
the Kirin Tor were chosen by several means, magic but one of them.

“Something is happening in Khaz Modan,” announced the first in a stentorian voice, the vague image of a
bearded face briefly visible. A myriad pattern of stars floated through his body. “Near or in the caverns
held by the Dragonmaw clan.”

 “Tell us something we don't already know,” rasped the second, a woman likely of elder years but still
strong of will. A moon briefly shone through her cowl. “The orcs there remain one of the few holdouts,
now that Doomhammer's warriors have surrendered and the chieftain's gone missing.”

 The first mage clearly took some umbrage, but he kept himself calm as he replied. “Very well! Perhaps
this will interest you more. . . . I believe Deathwing is on the move again.”

 This startled the rest, the elder woman included. Night suddenly changed into day, but the wizards
ignored what, for them, was a common thing in this chamber. Clouds drifted past the head of the third of
their number, who clearly did not believe this statement.

 “Deathwing is dead!” the third declared, his form the only one hinting at corpulence. “He plunged into
the sea months ago after this very council and a gathering of our strongest struck the mortal blow! No
dragon, even him, could withstand such might!”

Some of the others nodded, but the first went on. “And where was the corpse? Deathwing was like no
other dragon. Even before the goblins sealed the adamantium plates to his scaly hide, he offered a threat
with the potential to dwarf that of the Horde. . . .”

“But what proof do you have of his continued existence?” This from a young woman clearly in the bloom
of youth. Not as experienced as the others, but still powerful enough to be one of the council. “What?”
“The death of two red dragons, two of Alexstrasza's get. Torn asunder in a manner only one of their
own kind— one of gargantuan proportions—could have managed.”

“There are other large dragons.”

 A storm began to rage, the lightning and rain falling upon the wizards and yet touching neither them nor
the floor. The storm passed in the blink of an eye, a blazing sun once more appearing overhead. The first
of the Kirin Tor gave this latest display not even the least of his interest. “You have obviously never seen
the work of Deathwing, or you'd never make that statement.”

 “It may be as you say,” interjected the fifth, the outline of a vaguely elven visage appearing and
disappearing faster than the storm. “And, if so, a matter of import. But we hardly can concern ourselves
with it for now. If Deathwing lives and now strikes out at his greatest rival's kind, then it only benefits us.
After all, Alexstrasza is still the captive of Dragonmaw clan, and it is her offspring that those orcs have
used for years to wreak bloodshed and havoc all over the Alliance. Have we all so soon forgotten the
tragedy of the Third Fleet of Kul Tiras? I suspect that Lord Admiral Daelin Proudmoore never will. After
all, he lost his eldest son and everyone else aboard those six great ships when the monstrous red
leviathans fell upon them. Proudmoore would likely honor Deathwing with a medal if it proved true that
the black beast was responsible for these two deaths.”

 No one argued that point, not even the first mage. Of the mighty vessels, only splinters of wood and a
few torn corpses had been left to mark the utter destruction. It had been to Lord Admiral Proudmoore's
credit that he had not faltered in his resolve, immediately ordering the building of new warships to replace
those destroyed and pushing on with the war.

“And, as I stated earlier, we can hardly concern ourselves with that situation now, not with so many
more immediate issues with which to deal.”

 “You're referring to the Alterac crisis, aren't you?” rumbled the bearded mage. “Why should the
continued sniping of Lordaeron and Stromgarde worry us more than Deathwing's possible return?”

“Because now Gilneas has thrown its weight into the situation.”

 Again the other mages stirred, even the unspeaking sixth. The slightly corpulent shade moved a step
toward the elven form. “Of what interest is the bickering of the other two kingdoms over that sorry piece
of land to Genn Greymane? Gilneas is at the tip of the southern peninsula, as far away in the Alliance as
any other kingdom is from Alterac!”

“You have to ask? Greymane has always sought the leadership of the Alliance, even though he held
back his armies until the orcs finally attacked his own borders. The only reason he ever encouraged King
Terenas of Lordaeron to action was to weaken Lordaeron's military might. Now Terenas maintains his
hold on the Alliance leadership mostly because of our work and Admiral Proudmoore's open support.”

 Alterac and Stromgarde were neighboring kingdoms that had been at odds since the first days of the
war. Thoras Trollbane had thrown the full might of Stromgarde behind the Lordaeron Alliance. With
Khaz Modan as its neighbor, it had only made sense for the mountainous kingdom to support a united
action. None could argue with the determination of Trollbane's warriors, either. If not for them, the orcs
would have overrun much of the Alliance during the first weeks of the war, certainly promising a different
and highly grim outcome overall.

Alterac, on the other hand, while speaking much of the courage and righteousness of the cause, had not
been so forthcoming with its own troops. Like Gilneas, it had provided only token support; but, where
Genn Greymane had held back out of ambition, Lord Perenolde, so it had been rumored, had done so
because of fear. Even among the Kirin Tor it had early on been asked whether Perenolde had thought to
perhaps make a deal with Doomhammer, should the Alliance crumble under the Horde's unceasing
onslaught.

 That fear had proven to have merit. Perenolde had indeed betrayed the Alliance, but his dastardly act
had, fortunately, been short-lived. Terenas, hearing of it, had quickly moved Lordaeron troops in and
declared martial law in Alterac. With the war in progress, no one had, at the time, seen fit to complain
over such an action, especially Stromgarde. Now that peace had come, Thoras Trollbane had begun to
demand that, for its sacrifices, Stromgarde should receive as just due the entire eastern portion of its
treacherous former neighbor.

 Terenas did not see it so. He still debated the merits of either annexing Alterac to his own kingdom or
setting upon its throne a new and more reasonable monarch . . . presumably with a sympathetic ear for
Lordaeron causes. Still, Stromgarde had been a loyal, steadfast ally in the struggle, and all knew of
Thoras Trollbane's and Terenas's admiration for one another. It made the political situation that had come
between the pair all the more sad.

 Gilneas, meanwhile, had no such ties to any of the lands involved; it had always remained separate from
the other nations of the western world. Both the Kirin Tor and King Terenas knew that Genn Greymane
sought to intervene not only to raise his own prestige, but to perhaps further his dreams of expansion.
One of Lord Perenolde's nephews had fled to that land after the treachery, and rumor had it that
Greymane supported his claim as successor. A base in Alterac would give Gilneas access to resources
the southern kingdom did not have, and the excuse to send its mighty ships across the Great Sea. That, in
turn, would draw Kul Tiras into the equation, the maritime nation being very protective of its naval
sovereignty.

“This will tear the Alliance apart. . . .” muttered the young mage with the accent.

 “It has not come to that point yet,” pointed out the elven wizard, “but it may soon. And so we have no
time to deal with dragons. If Deathwing lives and has chosen to renew his vendetta against Alexstrasza, I,
for one, will not oppose him. The fewer dragons in this world the better. Their day is done, after all.”

“I have heard,” came a voice with no inflection, no identifiable gender, “that once the elves and dragons
were allies, even respected friends.”

 The elven form turned to the last of the mages, a slim, lanky shape little more than shadow. “Tales only, I
can assure you. We would not deign to traffic with such monstrous beasts.”

 Clouds and sun gave way to stars and moon. The sixth mage bowed slightly, as if in apology. “I appear
to have heard wrong. My mistake.”

 “You're right about the importance of calming this political situation down,” the bearded wizard rumbled
to the fifth. “And I agree it must take priority. Still, we can't afford to ignore what is happening around
Khaz Modan! Whether or not I'm wrong about Deathwing, so long as the orcs there hold the
Dragonqueen captive, they're a threat to the stability of the land!”

“We need an observer, then,” interjected the elder female. “Someone to maintain watch on matters and
only alert us if the situation there becomes critical.”
“But who? We can spare no one now!”

 “There is one.” The sixth mage glided a step forward. The face remained in shadow even when the figure
spoke. “There is Rhonin. . . .”

 “Rhonin?!?” burst out the bearded mage. “Rhonin! After his last debacle? He isn't even fit to wear the
robes of a wizard! He's more of a danger than a hope!”

“He's unstable,” agreed the elder woman.

“A maverick,” muttered the corpulent one.

“Untrustworthy . . .”

“Criminal!”

 The sixth waited until all had spoken, then slowly nodded. “And the only skilled wizard we can afford to
be without at this juncture. Besides, this is simply a mission of observance. He will be nowhere near any
potential crisis. His duty will be to monitor matters and report back, that is all.” When no more protests
arose, the dark mage added, “I am certain that he has learned his lesson.”

 “Let us hope so,” muttered the older of the women. “He may have accomplished his last mission, but it
cost most of his companions their lives!”

 “This time, he will go alone, with only a guide to bring him to the edge of Alliance-controlled lands. He
shall not even enter Khaz Modan. A sphere of seeing will enable him to watch from a distance.”

“It seems simple enough,” the younger female responded. “Even for Rhonin.”

 The elven figure nodded brusquely. “Then let us agree on this and be done with the topic. Perhaps if we
are fortunate, Deathwing will swallow Rhonin, then choke to death, thus finishing forever the matters of
both.” He surveyed the others, then added, “And now I must demand that we finally concentrate on
Gilneas's entry into the Alterac situation and what role we may play to diffuse it. . . .”


He stood as he had for the past two hours, head down, eyes closed in concentration. Around him, only a
dim light with no source gave any illumination to the chamber, not that there was much to see. A chair he
had left unused stood to the side, and behind him on the thick, stone wall hung a tapestry upon which had
been sewn an intricate, knowing eye of gold on a field of violet. Below the eye, three daggers, also gold,
darted earthward. The flag and symbols of Dalaran had stood tall in their guardianship of the Alliance
during the war, even if not every member of the Kirin Tor had performed their duties with complete
honor.

“Rhonin . . .” came a voice without inflection, from everywhere and nowhere in the chamber.

 From under thick, fiery hair, he looked up into the darkness with eyes a startling green. His nose had
been broken once by a fellow apprentice, but despite his skills, Rhonin had never bothered to have it
fixed. Still, he was not unhandsome, with a strong, clean jaw and angular features. One permanently
arched brow ever gave him a sardonic, questioning look that had more than once gotten him in trouble
with his masters, and matters were not helped by his attitude, which matched his expression.
 Tall, slim, and clad in an elegant robe of midnight blue, he made for quite a sight, even to other wizards.
Rhonin hardly appeared recalcitrant, even though his last mission had cost the lives of five good men. He
stood straight and eyed the murk, waiting to see from which direction the other wizard would speak to
him.

“You summoned. I've waited,” the crimson-tressed spellcaster whispered, not without some impatience.

 “It could not be helped. I myself had to wait until the matter was brought up by someone else.” A tall
cloaked and hooded figure half-emerged from the gloom—the sixth member of the Kirin Tor inner
council. “It was.”

For the first time, some eagerness shone in the eyes of Rhonin. “And my penance? Is my probation
over?”

“Yes. You have been granted your return to our ranks . . . under the provision that you accede to taking
on a task of import immediately.”

“They've that much faith left in me?” Bitterness returned to the young mage's voice. “After the others
died?”

“You are the only one they have left.”

“That sounds more realistic. I should've known.”

 “Take these.” The shadowy wizard held out a slim, gloved hand, palm up. Above the hand there
suddenly flashed into existence two glittering objects—a tiny sphere of emerald and a ring of gold with a
single black jewel.

 Rhonin held out his own hand in the same manner . . . and the two items appeared above it. He seized
both and inspected them. “I recognize the sphere of seeing, but not this other. It feels powerful, but not,
I'm guessing, in an aggressive manner.”

“You are astute, which is why I took up your cause in the first place, Rhonin. The sphere's purpose you
know; the ring will serve as protection. You go into a realm where orc warlocks still exist. This ring will
help shield you from their own devices of detection. Regrettably, it will also make it difficult for us to
monitor you.”

“So I'll be on my own.” Rhonin gave his sponsor a sardonic smile. “Less chance of me causing any extra
deaths, anyway. . . .”

“In that regard, you will not be alone, at least as far as the journey to the port. A ranger will escort you.”

Rhonin nodded, although he clearly did not care for any escort, especially a ranger. Rhonin and elves did
not get along well together. “You've not told me my mission.”

 The shadowed wizard propped back, as if sitting in an immense chair the younger spellcaster could not
see. Gloved hands steepled as the figure seemed to consider the proper choice of words. “They have not
been easy on you, Rhonin. Some in the council even considered forever dismissing you from our ranks.
You must earn your way back, and to do that, you will have to fulfill this mission to the letter.”

“You make it sound like no easy task.”
“It involves dragons . . . and something they believe only one of youraptitudecan manage to accomplish.”

 “Dragons . . .” Rhonin's eyes had widened at first mention of the leviathans and, despite his tendency
toward arrogance at most times, he knew he sounded more like an apprentice at the moment.

Dragons. . . Simply the mention of them instilled awe in most younger mages.

 “Yes, dragons.” His sponsor leaned forward. “Make no mistake about this, Rhonin. No one else must
know of this mission outside of the council and yourself. Not even the ranger who guides you nor the
captain of the Alliance ship who drops you on the shores of Khaz Modan. If word got out what we hope
from you, it could set all the plans in jeopardy.”

 “But what is it?” Rhonin's green eyes flared bright. This would be a quest of tremendous danger, but the
rewards were clear enough. A return to the ranks and obvious added prestige to his reputation. Nothing
advanced a wizard in the Kirin Tor quicker than reputation, although none of the senior council would
have ever admitted to that base fact.

 “You are to go to Khaz Modan,” the other said with some hesitation, “and, once there, set into motion
the steps necessary to free from her orc captors the Dragonqueen,Alexstrasza. . . .”




TWO



 Vereesa did not like waiting. Most people thought that elves had the patience of glaciers, but younger
ones such as herself, just a year out of her apprenticeship in the rangers, were very much like humans in
that one regard. She had been waiting three days for this wizard she was supposed to escort to one of
the eastern ports serving the Great Sea. For the most part, she respected wizards as much as any elf
respected a human, but this one had earned nothing but her ire. Vereesa wanted to join her sisters and
brothers, help hunt down each and every remaining orc still fighting, and send the murderous beasts to
their well-deserved deaths. The ranger had not expected her first major assignment to be playing
nursemaid to some doddering and clearly forgetful old mage.

“One more hour,” she muttered. “One more hour, and then I leave.”

 Her sleek, chestnut-brown, elven mare snorted ever so slightly. Generations of breeding had created an
animal far superior to its mundane cousins, or so Vereesa's people believed. The mare was in tune with
her rider, and what would have seemed to most nothing more than a simple grunt from the horse
immediately sent the ranger to her feet, a long shaft already notched in her bow.

 Yet the woods around her spoke only of quiet, not treachery, and this deep within the Lordaeron
Alliance she could hardly expect an attack by either orcs or trolls. She glanced in the direction of the
small inn that had been designated the meeting place, but other than a stable boy carrying hay, Vereesa
saw no one. Still, the elf did not lower her bow. Her mount rarely made a sound unless some trouble
lurked nearby. Bandits, perhaps?

 Slowly the ranger turned in a circle. The wind whipped some of the long, silver-white hair across her
face, but not enough to obscure her sharp sight. Almond-shaped eyes the color of purest sky blue drank
in even the most minute shift of foliage, and the lengthy, pointed ears that rose from her thick hair could
pick up even the sound of a butterfly landing on a nearby flower.

And still she could find no reason for the mare's warning.

 Perhaps she had frightened away whatever supposed menace had been nearby. Like all elves, Vereesa
knew she made an impressive appearance. Taller than most humans, the ranger stood clad in knee-high
leather boots, forest-green pants and blouse, and an oak-brown travel cloak. Gloves that stretched
nearly to her elbows protected her hands while yet enabling her to use her bow or the sword hanging at
her side with ease. Over her blouse she wore a sturdy breastplate fashioned to her slim but still curved
form. One of the locals in the inn had made the mistake of admiring the feminine aspects of her
appearance while entirely ignoring the military ones. Because he had been drunk and possibly would have
held back his rude suggestions otherwise, Vereesa had only left him with a few broken fingers.

The mare snorted again. The ranger glared at her mount, words of reprimand forming on her lips.

 “You would be Vereesa Windrunner, I presume,” a low, arresting voice on her blind side suddenly
commented.

 She had the tip of the shaft directly at his throat before he could say more. Had Vereesa let the arrow
loose, it would have shot completely through the newcomer's neck, exiting through the other side.

 Curiously, he seemed unimpressed by this deadly fact. The elf stared him up and down—not an entirely
unpleasant task, she had to admit—and realized that her sudden intruder could only be the wizard for
whom she had been waiting. Certainly that would explain her mount's peculiar actions and her own
inability to sense his presence before this.

“You are Rhonin?” the ranger finally asked.

“Not what you're expecting?” he returned with just the hint of a sardonic smile.

She lowered the bow, relaxing slightly. “They said a wizard; that was all, human.”

 “And they told me an elven ranger, nothing more.” He gave her a glance that almost made Vereesa raise
the bow again. “So we find ourselves even in this matter.”

“Not quite. I have waited here for three days! Three valuable days wasted!”

“It couldn't be helped. Preparations needed to be made.” The wizard said nothing more.

 Vereesa gave up. Like most humans, this one cared nothing for anyone but himself. She considered
herself fortunate that she had not had to wait longer. It amazed her that the Alliance could have ever
triumphed against the Horde with so many like this Rhonin in their ranks.

“Well, if you wish to make your passage to Khaz Modan, then it would be best if we left immediately.”
The elf peered behind him. “Where is your mount?”
 She half-expected him to tell her that he had none, that he had used his formidable powers to transport
himself all the way here . . . but if that had been the case, Rhonin would not have needed her to guide him
to the ship. As a wizard, he no doubt had impressive abilities, but he also had his limits. Besides, from
what little she knew of his mission, she suspected that Rhonin would need everything he had just to
survive. Khaz Modan was not a land welcoming to outsiders. The skulls of many brave warriors
decorated the orc tents there, so she had heard, and dragons constantly patrolled the skies. No, not a
place even Vereesa would have gone without an army at her side. She was no coward, but she was also
no fool.

“Tied near a trough by the inn, so that he can get some water. I've already ridden long today, milady.”

 His use of the title for her might have flattered Vereesa, if not for the slight touch of sarcasm she thought
she noted in his tone. Fighting down her irritation with the human, she turned to her own horse, replaced
the bow and shaft, then proceeded to ready her animal for the ride.

“My horse could do with a few more minutes' rest,” the wizard suggested, “and so could I.”

 “You will learn to sleep in the saddle quickly enough . . . and the pace I set at first will enable your steed
to recoup. We have waited far too long. Few ships, even those of Kul Tiras, are endeared to the thought
of sailing to Khaz Modan simply for a wizard on observation duty. If you do not reach port soon, they
may decide that they have more worthy and less suicidal matters with which to deal.”

 To her relief, Rhonin did not argue. Instead, with a frown, he turned and headed back toward the inn.
Vereesa watched him depart, hoping that she would not find herself tempted to run him through before
they managed to part company.

 She wondered about his mission. True, Khaz Modan remained a threat because of the dragons and their
orc masters there, but the Alliance already had other, more well-trained observers in and around the
land. Vereesa suspected that Rhonin's mission concerned a very serious matter, or else the Kirin Tor
would have never risked so much for this arrogant mage. Still, had they considered the matter well
enough when they had chosen him? Surely there had to have been someone more able—and
trustworthy? This wizard had a look to him, one that spoke of a streak of unpredictability that might lead
to disaster.

 The elf tried to shrug off her doubts. The Kirin Tor had made up their minds in this matter, and Alliance
command had clearly agreed with them or else she would not have been sent along to guide him. Best
she put aside any concerns. All she had to do was deliver her charge to his vessel, and then Vereesa
could be on her way. What Rhonin might or might not do after their separation did not concern her in the
least.


For four days they journeyed, never once threatened by anything more dangerous than a few annoying
insects. Had circumstances been different, the trek might have seemed almost idyllic, if not for the fact
that Rhonin and his guide had barely spoken with one another all that time. For the most part, the wizard
had not been bothered much by that fact, his thoughts focused on the dangerous task ahead. Once the
Alliance ship brought him to the shores of Khaz Modan, he would be on his own in a realm still overrun
not only with orcs but patrolled from the sky by their captive dragons. While no coward, Rhonin had little
desire to face torture and slow, agonizing death. For that alone, his benefactor in the council had
provided him with the latest known movements of the Dragonmaw clan. Dragonmaw would be most on
the watch now, especially if, as Rhonin had been told, the black leviathan Deathwing did indeed live.
 Yet, as dangerous as the mage's quest appeared, Rhonin would not have turned back. He had been
given an opportunity to not only redeem himself but to advance among the Kirin Tor. For that he would
forever be most grateful to his patron, whom he only knew by the nameKrasus.The title was surely a
false one, not an uncommon practice among those in the ruling council. The masters of Dalaron were
chosen in secret, their ascension known only to their fellows, not even their loved ones. The voice of
Rhonin's benefactor could be nothing like his true voice . . . if male was even the correct gender.

 It was possible to guess the identities of some of the inner circle, but Krasus remained an enigma even to
his clever agent. In truth, though, Rhonin barely even cared about Krasus's identity anymore, only that
through him the younger wizard could achieve his own dreams.

 But those dreams would remain distant ones if he never made his ship. Leaning forward in the saddle, he
asked, “How much farther to Hasic?”

Without turning, Vereesa blandly replied, “Three more days at least. Do not worry; our pace will now
get us to the port on time.”

 Rhonin leaned back again. So much for their latest conversation, only the second of today. The only
thing possibly worse than riding with an elf would have been traveling with one of the dour Knights of the
Silver Hand. Despite their ever-present courtesy, the paladins generally made it clear that they
considered magic an occasional, necessary evil, one with which they would do without at all other times.
The last one that Rhonin had encountered had quite clearly indicated that he believed that, after death, the
mage's soul would be condemned to the same pit of darkness shared by the mythical demons of old. This
no matter how pure Rhonin's soul might have been otherwise.

 The late afternoon sun began to sink among the treetops, creating contrasting areas of brightness and
dark shadow among the trees. Rhonin had hoped to reach the edge of the woods before dark, but
clearly they would not do so. Not for the first time, he ran through his mental maps, trying not only to
place their present location but verify what his companion had said about still making the ship. His delay
in meeting with Vereesa had been unavoidable, the product of trying to find necessary supplies and
components. He only hoped it would still not prove to jeopardize his entire mission.

To free the Dragonqueen . . .

 An impossible, improbable quest to some, certain death to most. Yet, even during the war, Rhonin had
proposed such. Clearly, if the Dragonqueen were freed, it would at the very least strip from the remaining
orcs one of their greatest weapons. However, circumstance had never enabled such a monumental quest
to come to fruition.

 Rhonin knew most of the council hoped he would fail. To be rid of him would be to erase what they
considered a black mark from the history of their order. This mission had a double edge to it; they would
be astounded if he succeeded, but relieved if he failed.

 At least he could trust in Krasus. The wizard had first come to him, asking if his younger counterpart still
believed he could do the impossible. Dragonmaw clan would forever retain its hold on Khaz Modan
unless Alexstrasza was freed, and so long as the orcs there continued the work of the Horde, they
remained a possible rallying point for those in the guarded enclaves. No one wanted the war renewed.
The Alliance had enough strife within its own ranks to keep it busy.

 A brief rumble of thunder disturbed Rhonin's contemplations. He looked up but saw only a few cottony
clouds. Frowning, the fiery-haired spellcaster turned his gaze toward the elf, intending to ask her if she,
too, had heard the thunder.

A second, more menacing rumble set every muscle taut.

At the same time, Vereesaleaptat him, the ranger somehow having managed to turn in the saddle and
push herself in his direction.

A massive shadow covered their surroundings.

The ranger and the wizard collided, the elf 's armored weight shoving both off the back of Rhonin's own
mount.

 An ear-shattering roar shook the vicinity, and a force akin to a tornado ripped at the landscape. As the
wizard struck the hard ground, through the shock of pain he heard the brief whinny of his mount—a
sound cut off the next moment.

“Keep down!” Vereesa called above the wind and roaring. “Keep down!”

Rhonin, though, twisted around so as to see the heavens—and saw instead a hellish sight.

 A dragon the color of raging fire filled the sky above. In its forepaws it held what remained of his horse
and his costly and carefully chosen supplies. The crimson leviathan consumed in one gulp the rest of the
carcass, eyes already fixed on the tiny, pathetic figures below.

 And seated atop the shoulders of the beast, a grotesque, greenish figure with tusks and a battle-ax that
looked nearly as large as the mage barked orders in some harsh tongue and pointed directly at Rhonin.

Maw gaping and talons bared, the dragon dove toward him.


“I thank you again for your time, Your Majesty,” the tall, black-haired noble said in a voice full of
strength and understanding. “Perhaps we can yet keep this crisis from tearing your good work asunder.”

 “If so,” returned the older, bearded figure clad in the elegant white and gold robes of state, “Lordaeron
and the Alliance will have much to thank you for, Lord Prestor. It's only because of your work that I feel
Gilneas and Stromgarde might yet see reason.” Although no slight man himself, King Terenas felt a little
overwhelmed by his larger companion.

 The younger man smiled, revealing perfect teeth. If Terenas could have found a more regal-looking man
than Lord Prestor, he would have been surprised. With his short, well-groomed black hair, clean-shaven
hawklike features that had set many of the women of the court atwitter, quick mind, and a bearing more
princely than any prince in the Alliance, it was not at all surprising that everyone involved in the Alterac
situation had taken to him, Genn Greymane included. Prestor had an engaging manner that had actually
made the ruler of Gilneas smile on a rare occasion, so Terenas's marveling diplomats had informed him.

 For a young noble whom no one had even heard of prior to five years before, the king's guest had made
quite a reputation for himself. Prestor came from the most mountainous, most obscure region of
Lordaeron, but could claim bloodlines in the royal house of Alterac as well. His tiny domain had been
destroyed during the war by a dragon attack and he had come to the capital on foot, without even one
servant to dress him. His plight and what he had made of himself since his arrival had become the thing of
storybook tales. More important, his advice had aided the king many times, including during the dark
days when the graying monarch had debated on what to do about Lord Perenolde. Prestor had, in fact,
been the swaying factor. He had given Terenas the encouragement needed to seize power in Alterac,
then solidify martial law there. Stromgarde and the other kingdoms had understood the need for action
against the traitorous Perenolde, but not Lordaeron's continued holding of that kingdom for its own
purposes after the war had ended. Now at last, Prestor appeared to be the one who could explain it all
to them and make them accept any final decision.

 Which had, of late, made the aging, broad-featured monarch mull over a possible solution that would
stun even the clever man before him. Terenas refused to turn over Alterac to Perenolde's nephew, whom
Gilneas had tried to support. Nor did he think it wise to divide the kingdom in question between
Lordaeron and Stromgarde. That would surely earn the wrath of not only Gilneas, but Kul Tiras even.
Annexing Alterac completely was also out of the question.

What if, though, he placed the region in the capable hands of one admired by all, one who had shown he
wanted nothing but peace and unity? An able administrator, too, if King Terenas were any judge, not to
mention someone certain to remain a true ally and friend to Lordaeron. . . .

 “No, indeed, Prestor!” The king reached up to pat the much taller lord on the shoulder. Prestor had to
be nearly seven feet in height, but while slim, he could hardly be called lanky. Prestor well fit his blue and
black dress uniform, looking every inch the martial hero. “You've much to be proud about . . . and much
to be rewarded for! I'll not soon forget your part in this, believe me!”

 Prestor fairly beamed, likely believing he would soon have his tiny realm restored to him. Terenas
decided to let the boy keep that little dream; when the ruler of Lordaeron proposed him as new monarch
of Alterac, the expression on Prestor's face would be that much more entertaining. It was not every day
that someone became king . . . unless they inherited the position, of course.

 Terenas's honored guest saluted him, then, bowing gracefully, retreated from the imperial chamber. The
elder man frowned after Prestor left, thinking that the silken curtains, the golden chandeliers, and even the
pure white marble floor could not brighten the room enough now that the young noble had departed.
Truly Lord Prestor stood out among the many odious courtiers flocking to the palace. Here was a man
anyone could believe in, a man worthy of trust and respect in all matters. Terenas wished his own son
could have been more like Prestor.

 The king rubbed his bearded chin. Yes, the perfect man to rebuild the honor of a land and at the same
time restore harmony between the members of the Alliance. New and strong blood.

 Considering the matter further, Terenas thought of his daughter, Calia. Still a child, but certainly soon to
be a beauty. Perhaps one day, if matters went well, he and Prestor could strengthen their friendship and
alliance with a royal marriage, too.

Yes, he would go talk to his advisors now, relate to them his royal opinion. Terenas felt certain that they
would agree with him on this decision. He had met no one yet who disliked the young noble.

 King Prestor of Alterac.Terenas could just imagine the look on his friend's face when he learned the
extent of his reward. . . .


“You've the shadow of a smile on your face—did someone die a horrible, grisly, bloody death, o
venomous one?”
 “Spare me your witticisms, Kryll,” Lord Prestor replied as he shut the great iron door behind him.
Above, in the old chalet given over to him by his host, King Terenas, servants specifically chosen by
Prestor stood guard to see that no unwarranted visitors dropped in. Their master had work to do, and
even if none of the servants truly knew what went on in the chambers below-ground, they had been made
to know that it would be their lives if he was disturbed.

 Prestor expected no interruptions and trusted that those lackeys would obey to the death. The spell
upon them, a variation of the one that caused the king and his court to so admire the dashing refugee,
allowed no room for second thoughts. He had honed its effectiveness quite well over time.

 “Most humble apologies, o prince of duplicity!” rasped the smaller, wiry figure before him. The tone in
the other's voice held hints of mischief and madness and an inhuman quality—not surprising, as Prestor's
companion was a goblin.

 His head barely reaching above the noble's belt buckle, some might have taken the slight, emerald-green
creature for weak and simple. The madcap grin, however, revealed long teeth so very sharp and a tongue
blood-red and almost forked. Narrow, yellow eyes with no visible pupils sparkled with merriment, but
the sort of merriment that came from pulling the wings off flies or the arms off experimental subjects. A
ridge of dull brown fur rose up from behind the goblin's neck, finishing as a wild crest above the hideous
creature's squat forehead.

 “Still, there is reason to celebrate.” The lower chamber had once been used to house supplies. In those
days, the coolness of the earth had kept wine rack after wine rack at just the right temperature. Now,
however, thanks to a little engineering on the part of Kryll, the vast room felt as if it sat in the middle of a
raging volcano.

For Lord Prestor, it felt just like home.

 “Celebrate, o master of deceit?” Kryll giggled. Kryll giggled a lot, especially when foul work was afoot.
The emerald creature's two chief passions were experimentation and mayhem, and whenever possible he
combined the two. The back half of the chamber was, in fact, filled with benches, flasks, powders,
curious mechanisms, and macabre collections all gathered by the goblin.

 “Yesss, celebrate, Kryll.” Prestor's penetrating, ebony eyes fixed unblinkingly on the goblin, who
suddenly lost his smile and all semblance of mockery. “You would like to be around to join in that
celebration, wouldn't you?”

“Yes . . . Master.”

 The uniformed noble took a moment to breathe in the stifling air. An expression of relief crossed his
angular features. “Aaah, how I miss it . . .” His face hardened. “But I must wait. Go only when necessary,
eh, Kryll?”

“As you say, Master.”

The smile, now so very sinister, returned to Prestor's expression. “You are likely looking at the next king
of Alterac, you know.”

The goblin bent his narrow but muscular body nearly to the ground. “All hail his royal majesty, King
D—”
 A clatter made both glance to the right. From a metal grate leading to an old ventilation shaft emerged a
smaller goblin. Nimbly, the tiny figure pulled itself through the opening and rushed over to Kryll. The
newcomer wore a fiendishly amused look on his ugly face, a look that quickly faded under Prestor's
intense gaze.

The second goblin whispered something into Kryll's large, pointed ear. Kryll hissed, then dismissed the
other creature with a negligent wave of the hand. The newcomer vanished back through the open grate.

 “What is it?” Although the words came calmly and smoothly from the lips of the aristocrat, they also
clearly demanded no hesitation on the part of the goblin to answer.

 “Aaah, gracious one,” Kryll began, the madcap smile once more upon his bestial face. “Luck is with you
this day, it seems! Perhaps you should consider making a wager somewhere? The stars must truly
favor—”

“What is it?”

“Someone . . . someone is attempting to free Alexstrasza. . . .”

 Prestor stared. He stared so long and with such intensity that Kryll fairly shriveled up before him. Surely
now, the goblin imagined, surely now death would come. A pity that. There had been so many more
experiments he had wanted to try, so many more explosives to test . . .

At that moment, the tall, black figure before him broke out laughing, a laugh deep, dark, and not entirely
natural.

 “Perfect . . .” Lord Prestor managed to utter between bouts of mirth. He stretched his arms out as if
seeking to capture the very air. His fingers seemed impossibly long and almost clawed. “So perfect!”

 He continued to laugh and, as he did, the goblin Kryll settled back, marveling at the odd sight and
shaking his head ever so slightly.

“And they callmemad,” he muttered under his breath.




THREE



The world became fire.

Vereesa cursed as she and the wizard scattered under the inferno suddenly exhaled by the crimson
behemoth as it descended. If Rhonin had not delayed the start of their journey, this would have never
happened. They would have arrived in Hasic by now, and she would have parted from his company.
Now, it seemed very likely both of them would be parting with their lives. . . .
 She had known that the orcs of Khaz Modan still sent out occasional dragon flights to wreak terror on
the otherwise peaceful lands of their enemies, but why had she and her companion had the misfortune to
be found by one? Dragons were fewer these days, and the realms of Lordaeron immense.

 She glanced at Rhonin, who had thrown himself deeper into the woods. Of course. Somehow it had to
do with the fact that her companion was a wizard. Dragons had senses far above those of even elves;
some said they could, within limitations, even smell magic. Somehow this disastrous turn of events had to
be the wizard's fault. The orc and his dragon had to have come for him.

 Rhonin evidently thought something similar, for he hurried from her sight as quickly as he could, darting
into the woods in the opposite direction from her. The ranger snorted. Wizards were never good in the
front line; it was easy to attack someone from a distance or behind his back, but when they had to
actually face a foe . . .

Of course, itwasa dragon.

 The dragon veered toward the vanishing human. Despite what she might personally think of him,
Vereesa did not want to see the spellcaster dead. Yet, peering around, the silver-haired ranger saw no
manner by which she could aid him. Her mount had been taken along with his, and with it had gone her
favored bow. All that remained with her was her sword, hardly a weapon to be used against such a
rampaging titan. Vereesa looked around for something else she could use, but nothing suited.

 That left her with little choice. As a ranger, she could not let even the wizard fall to harm if she could help
it. Vereesa had to do the only thing she could think of in order to possibly save his life.

 The elf leapt up from her hiding place, waved her hands in the air, and shouted, “Here! Over here,
spawn of a lizard! Here!”

However, the dragon did not hear her, his—Vereesa had finally managed to identify it as a
male—attention on the burning woods below him. Somewhere in that inferno Rhonin struggled to survive.
The dragon sought to make certain that he did not.

Cursing, the elven warrior looked around and found a heavy rock. For a human, what she sought to do
would have been nigh unto impossible, but for her it still remained in the realm of probability. Vereesa
only hoped her arm was as good as it had been a few short years back.

Stretching back, she threw the rock directly at the head of the crimson leviathan.

 She had the distance, but the dragon suddenly moved, and for a moment Vereesa expected her rock to
miss. However, although it did not hit the head, the projectile did bounce off the tip of the nearest of the
webbed wings. Vereesa did not even expect to injure the beast— a mere rock against hard dragonscale
a laughable weapon—but what she had hoped for was to attract the behemoth's attention.

And so she did.

The massive head immediately swerved her way, the dragon roaring in annoyance at this interruption.
The orc shouted something unintelligible at his mount.

 The great winged form abruptly banked, steering toward her. She had succeeded in taking his attention
from the hapless mage.
And now what?the ranger chided herself.

The elf turned and ran, already knowing she had no chance of outpacing her monstrous pursuer.

 The treetops above her burst into flames as the dragon coated the landscape. Burning foliage dropped
before her, cutting off Vereesa's intended route. Without hesitation, the ranger shifted to the left, diving
among trees that had not yet become a part of the inferno.

You are going to die!she informed herself.All for that useless wizard!

An ear-splitting roar made her look over her shoulder. The red dragon had reached her, and even now
one taloned paw stretched down to seize the fleeing ranger. Vereesa imagined that paw crushing her or,
worse fate, dragging her into the behemoth's horrific maw, where she would be chewed up or swallowed
whole.

 Yet, just as death came within inches of her, the dragon suddenly pulled back his claws and began
squirming in midair. The claws raked against his own torso. In fact, every set of claws was trying to
scratch somewhere, anywhere, as if—as if the leviathan suffered an incredibly painful itch. Atop him, the
orc struggled for control, but he might as well have been the very flea that seemed to trouble the dragon
for all the beast obeyed him now.

 Vereesa stopped and stared, never having witnessed so startling a sight. The dragon twisted and turned
as he tried to relieve his agony, his actions growing more and more frantic. His orc handler could barely
hold on. What, the elf wondered, could have caused the monster so much—

The answer came out as a whisper. “Rhonin?”

 And, as if by saying his name she had summoned him like some ghost, the mage stood before her. His
fiery hair hung disheveled and his dark robe had become muddy and torn, but he looked undeterred by
what he had so far suffered.

“I think it'd be better if we left while we could, eh, elf ?”

 She did not need him to offer again. This time, Rhonin led the way, using some skill, some magical
ability, to guide them through the blazing forest. As a ranger, Vereesa could not have done better herself.
Rhonin led her along paths the elf could not even see until they were upon them.

 All the while, the dragon soared overhead, tearing at its hide. Once Vereesa glanced up and saw that he
had even managed to draw blood, his own claws one of the few things capable of ripping through his
armored skin. Of the orc she saw no more sign; at some point the tusked warrior must have lost his grip
and fallen. Vereesa felt no remorse for him.

“What did you do to the dragon?” she finally managed to gasp.

Rhonin, intent on finding the end of the blaze, did not even look back at her. “Something that didn't turn
out the way I planned! He should've suffered more than an intense irritation!”

He actually sounded annoyed with himself, but the ranger, for once, found herself impressed by him. He
had turned certain death into possible safety—provided they found their way out.

Behind them, the dragon roared his frustration at the world.
“How long will it last?”

 Now he finally paused to eye her, and what she saw in that gaze unsettled her greatly. “Not nearly long
enough. . . .”

 They redoubled their efforts. Fire surrounded them wherever they turned, but at last they reached its
very edge, racing past the flames and out into a region where only deadly smoke assailed them. Both
choking, the pair stumbled on, searching for a path that would keep the wind blowing at them from the
front and, consequently, help to slow the fire and smoke behind.

 And then another roar shook them, for it did not speak of agony, but rather fury and revenge. Wizard
and ranger turned about, glanced at the crimson form in the distance.

 “The spell's worn off,” Rhonin muttered unnecessarily. It had indeed worn off, and Vereesa could see
that the dragon knew exactly who had been responsible for his pain. With an almost unerring aim, the
dragon pushed toward them with his massive, leathery wings, clearly intent on making them pay.

“Do you have another spell for this?” Vereesa called as they ran.

“Perhaps! But I'd rather not use it here! It could take us with it!”

 As if the dragon would not do that anyway. The elf hoped that Rhonin would see his way to unleashing
this deadly spell before they both ended up as fare for the behemoth.

“How far—” The wizard had to catch his breath. “How far to Hasic?”

“Too far.”

“Any other settlement between here and there?”

 She tried to think. One place came to mind, but she could not recall either its name or its purpose. Only
that it lay about a day's journey from here. “There is something, but—”

The dragon's roar shook them both again. A shadow passed overhead.

 “If you do have another spell that might work, I would suggest using it now.” Vereesa wished again for
her bow. With it she could have at least tried for the eyes with some hope of success. The shock and
agony might have been enough to send the monster flying off.

 They nearly collided as Rhonin came to an unexpected halt and turned to face the dire threat. He took
hold of her arms with surprisingly strong hands, for a wizard, then shifted the ranger aside. His eyes
literally glowed, something Vereesa had heard could happen with powerful mages but had never in her
life seen.

“Pray that this doesn't backfire on us,” he muttered.

His arms went up straight, hands pointed in the direction of the red dragon.

 He started to mutter words in a language that Vereesa did not recognize, but which somehow sent
shivers up and down her spine.
Rhonin brought his hands together, started to speak again—

Through the clouds came three more winged forms.

Vereesa gasped and the tall wizard held his tongue, stalling the spell. He looked ready to curse the
heavens, but then the elf recognized what had emerged just above their horrific foe.

Gryphons . . . massive, eagle-headed, leonine-bodied, winged gryphons . . . with riders.

She tugged at Rhonin's arm. “Do not do anything!”

He glared at her, but nodded. They both looked up as the dragon filled their view.

 The three gryphons suddenly darted around the dragon, catching him by surprise. Now Vereesa could
identify the riders, not that she had really needed to do so. Only the dwarves of the distant Aerie Peaks,
a foreboding, mountainous region beyond even the elven realm of Quel'thalas, rode the wild gryphons . . .
and only these skilled warriors and their mounts could face dragons in the air.

 Although much smaller than the crimson giant, the gryphons made up for the size difference with huge,
razor-sharp talons that could tear off dragonscale and beaks that could rip into the flesh beneath. In
addition, they could move more swiftly and abruptly through the sky, turning at angles a dragon could
never match.

 The dwarves themselves did not simply manage their mounts, either. Slightly taller and leaner than their
earthier cousins, the mountain dwarves were no less muscled. Although their favored weapons when
patrolling the skies were the legendary Stormhammers, this trio carried great double-edged battle-axes
with lengthy handles that the warriors manipulated with ease. Made of a metal akin to adamantium, the
blades could cut through even the bony, scaled heads of the behemoths. Rumor had it that the great
gryphon-rider Kurdran had struck down a dragon more immense than this one with just one wellaimed
blow from an ax like these.

 The winged animals circled their foe, forcing him to constantly turn from side to side to see which one
threatened most. The orcs had early on learned to be wary of the gryphons, but without his own rider,
this particular monster appeared somewhat lost as to what to do. The dwarves immediately took
advantage of that fact, making their mounts dart in and out, much to the dragon's growing frustration. The
long beards and ponytails of the wild dwarves fluttered in the wind as they literally laughed in the face of
the giant menace. The bellowing laughter only served to antagonize the dragon more, and he slashed
about madly, accompanying his futile attacks with spurts of flame.

 “They are completely disorienting him,” Vereesa commented, impressed by the tactics. “They know he
is young and that his temper will keep him from attacking with strategy!”

“Which makes it a good time for us to leave,” Rhonin replied.

“They might need our help!”

“I've a mission to fulfill,” he said ominously. “And they've got matters well in hand.”

True enough. The battle seemed to belong to the gryphon-riders, even though they had yet to strike a
blow. The trio kept flying around and around the red dragon, so much so that he nearly looked dizzy. He
tried his best to keep his eyes on one, but ever the others would distract him. Only once did flame come
close to touching one of his winged opponents.

 One of the dwarves suddenly began hefting his mighty ax, the head of it gleaming in the late-day sun. He
and his mount flew once more about the dragon, then, as they neared the back of the behemoth's skull,
the gryphon suddenly darted in.

Claws sank into the neck, ripping away scale. Even as the pain registered in the dragon's mind, the
dwarf brought the mighty ax around and swung hard.

The blade sank deep. Not enough to kill, but more than enough to make the dragon shriek in agony.

 Out of sheer reflex, he turned. His wing caught the dwarf and the gryphon by surprise, sending them
spiraling out of control. The rider managed to hold on, but his ax flew out of his grip, falling earthward.

 Vereesa instinctively started in the direction of the weapon, but Rhonin blocked her path with his arm. “I
said that we need to leave!”

 She would have argued, but one more glance at the combatants revealed that the ranger could be of no
use. The wounded dragon had flown higher into the air, still harassed by the gryphon-riders. Even with
the ax, all Vereesa could have done was wave it futilely.

“All right,” the elf finally muttered.

Together they hurried from the struggle, relying now on Vereesa's knowledge of where their ultimate
destination lay. Behind them, the dragon and the gryphons shrank to tiny specks in the heavens, in part
because the battle itself had moved in the opposite direction of the elf and her companion.

“Curious . . .” she heard the wizard whisper.

“What is?”

He started. “Those ears aren't just for show, then, are they?”

 Vereesa bristled at the insult, even though she had heard far worse. Humans and dwarves, quite jealous
of the natural superiority of the elven race, often chose the long, tapering ears as the focus of their
ridicule. At times, her ears had been compared to those of donkeys, swine, and, worst of all,goblins.
While Vereesa had never drawn a weapon on anyone because of such comments, more often than not
she had still left them much regretting their choice of words.

The emerald eyes of the mage narrowed. “I'm sorry; you took that as an insult. Didn't mean it that way.”

She doubted the veracity of his statement, but knew she had to accept his weak attempt at an apology.
Forcing down her anger, she asked again, “What do you find so curious?”

“That this dragon should appear in so timely a fashion.”

“If you think like that, you might as well ask where the gryphons came from. After all, they chased it off.”

He shook his head. “Someone saw him and reported the situation. The riders merely did their duties.”
He considered. “I know Dragonmaw clan's supposed to be desperate, supposed to be trying to rally
both the other rebel clans and the ones in the enclaves, but this wouldn't be the way to go about it.”

 “Who can say what an orc thinks? This was clearly a random marauder. This was not the first such
attack in the Alliance, human.”

 “No, but I wonder if—” Rhonin got no further, for suddenly they both became aware of movement in
the forest . . . movement from every direction.

 With practiced ease, the ranger slid her blade free from its sheath. Beside her, Rhonin's hands
disappeared into the deep folds of his wizard's robes, no doubt in preparation for a spell. Vereesa said
nothing, but she wondered how much aid he would be in close combat. Better he stand back and let her
take on the first attackers.

 Too late. Six massive figures on horseback suddenly broke through the woods, surrounding them. Even
in the dimming sunlight their silver armor gleamed sharp. The elf found a lance pointing at her chest.
Rhonin not only had one touching his breast, but another between his shoulder blades.

 Helmed visors with a leonine head for a crest hid the features of their captors. As a ranger, Vereesa
wondered how anyone could move in such suits, let alone wage war, but the six maneuvered in the
saddle as if completely unencumbered. Their huge, gray war-horses, also armored on top, seemed
unperturbed by the extra weight foisted upon them.

 The newcomers carried no banner, and the only sign of their identities appeared to be the image of a
stylized hand reaching to the heavens embossed on the breast-plate. Vereesa thought she knew who they
were from this alone, but did not relax. The last time the elf had met such men, they had worn different
armor, with horns atop the helm and the lettered symbol of Lordaeron on both their breastplate and
shield.

 And then a seventh rider slowly emerged from the forest, this one in the more traditional armor that
Vereesa had first been expecting. Within the shadowy, visorless helm, she could see a strong and—for a
human—older and wiser face with a trim, graying beard. The symbols of both Lordaeron and his own
religious order marked not only his shield and breastplate, but also his helm. A silver lion'shead buckle
linked together the belt in which hung one of the mighty, pointed warhammers used by such as him.

 “An elf,” he murmured as he inspected her. “Your strong arm is welcome.” The apparent leader then
eyed Rhonin, finally commenting with open disdain, “And adamned soul.Keep your hands where we can
see them and we won't be tempted to cut them off.”

As Rhonin clearly fought to keep his fury down, Vereesa found herself caught between relief and
uncertainty. They had been captured by paladins of Lordaeron—the fabled Knights of the Silver Hand.


The two met in a place of shadow, a place reachable only by a few, even among their own kind. It was a
place where dreams of the past played over and over, murky forms moving about in the fog of the mind's
history. Not even the two who met here knew how much of this realm existed in reality and how much of
it existed only in their thoughts, but they knew that here no one would be able to eavesdrop.

Supposedly.

Both were tall and slim, their faces covered by cowls. One could be identified as the wizard Rhonin
knew as Krasus; the other, but for the greenish tinge of the otherwise gray robes, might as well have been
the wizard's twin. Only when words were spoken did it become clear that, unlike the councilor of the
Kirin Tor, this figure was definitely male.

“I do not know why I've even come,” he commented to Krasus.

“Because you had to. You needed to.”

The other let loose with an audible hiss. “True, but now that I'm here, I can choose to leave any time I
desire.”

Krasus raised a slim, gloved hand. “At least hear me out.”

“For what reason? So that you can repeat what you have repeated so many times before?”

“So that for once what I am saying might actually register!” Krasus's unexpected vehemence startled
both.

 His companion shook his head. “You've been around them much too long. Your shields, both magical
and personal, are beginning to break down. It's time you abandoned this hopeless task . . . just as we
did.”

“I do not believe it hopeless.” For the first time, a hint of gender, a voice far deeper than any of the other
members of the Kirin Tor's inner circle would have believed possible. “I cannot, so long as she is held.”

 “What she means to you is understandable, Korialstrasz; what she means to us is that of the memory of
a time past.”

 “If that time is past, then why do you and yours still stand your posts?” Krasus calmly retorted, his
emotions once more under control.

“Because we would see our final years calm ones, peaceful ones. . . .”

“All the more reason to join with me in this.”

 Again the other hissed. “Korialstrasz, will you never give in to the inevitable? Your plan does not
surprise us, who know you so well! We've seen your little puppet on his fruitless quest—do you think he
can possibly accomplish his task?”

 Krasus paused for a moment before replying. “He has the potential . . . but he is not all I have. No, I
think he will fail. In doing so, however, I hope that his sacrifice will aid in my final success . . . and if you
would join with me, that success would be more likely.”

 “I was right.” Krasus's companion sounded immensely disappointed. “The same rhetoric. The same
pleading. I only came because of the alliance, once strong, between our two factions, but clearly I should
not have even bothered because of that. You are without backing, without force. There is only you now,
and you must hide in the shadows—” he gestured at the mists surrounding them “—in places such as this,
rather than show your true nature.”

 “I do what I must. . . . What is it that you do, anymore?” An edge once more arose in Krasus's voice.
“What purpose do you exist for, my old friend?”
 The other figure started at this penetrating question, then abruptly turned away. He took a few steps
toward the embracing mists, then paused and looked back at the wizard. Krasus's companion sounded
resigned. “I wish you the very best on this, Korialstrasz; I really do. I—we— just don't believe that there
can be any return to the past. Those days are done, and we with them.”

 “That is your choice, then.” They almost parted company, but Krasus suddenly called out. “One request,
though, before you return to the others.”

“And what is that?”

 The mage's entire form seemed to darken, and a hiss escaped him. “Do not ever call me by that name
again.Ever.It must not be spoken, even here.”

“No one could possibly—”

“Even here.”

Something in Krasus's tone made his companion nod. The second figure then hurriedly departed,
vanishing into the emptiness.

 The wizard stared at the place where the other had stood, thinking of the repercussions of this futile
conversation. If only they could have seen sense! Together, they had hope. Divided, they could do little .
. . and that would play into their foe's hands.

“Fools . . .”Krasus muttered.“Abysmal fools . . .”




FOUR



 The paladins brought them back to a keep that had to have been the unnamed settlement of which
Vereesa had earlier spoken. Rhonin was unimpressed by it. Its high stone walls surrounded a functional,
unadorned establishment where the holy knights, squires, and a small population of common folk
attempted to live in relative frugality. The banners of the brotherhood flew sideby-side with those of the
Lordaeron Alliance, of which the Knights of the Silver Hand were the most staunch supporters. If not for
the townsfolk, Rhonin would have taken the settlement for a completely military operation, for the rule of
the holy order clearly had control over all matters here.

 The paladins had treated the elf with courtesy, some of the younger knights adding extra charm
whenever Vereesa spoke with them, but with the wizard they would not traffic any more than necessity
demanded, not even when, at one point, he asked how far they still had to go to reach Hasic. Vereesa
had to repeat the question in order for him to find out. Despite initial impressions, the pair were not, of
course, prisoners, but Rhonin certainly felt like an outcast among them. They treated him with minimal
civility only because their oath to King Terenas demanded it of them, but otherwise he remained a pariah.
 “We saw both the dragon and the gryphons,” their leader, one Duncan Senturus, boomed. “Our duty
and honor demanded we ride out immediately to see what aid we might be.”

 The fact that the combat had been entirely aerial and, therefore, far out of their reach apparently had not
dampened their holy enthusiasm nor struck a chord with their common sense, Rhonin thought wryly. They
and the ranger made for good company in that. Curiously, though, the wizard felt a twinge of
possessiveness now that he did not have to deal with Vereesa on his own.After all, she was appointed
my guide. She should remain true to her duty until Hasic.

 Unfortunately, as for Hasic, Duncan Senturus had intentions for that, too. As they dismounted, the
broadshouldered senior knight offered his arm to the elf, saying, “Of course, it would be remiss of us to
not see you along the safest and quickest route to the port. I know it's a task you've been given, milady,
but clearly it was chosen by a higher power that your paths would lead you to us. We know well the way
to Hasic, and so a small party, led by myself, will journey with you come the morrow.”

 This seemed to please the ranger, but hardly encouraged Rhonin any. Everyone in the keep eyed him as
if he had been transformed into a goblin or orc. He had suffered enough disdain around his fellow
spellcasters and felt no need to have the paladins add further to his troubles.

 “It's very kind of you,” Rhonin interjected from behind them. “But Vereesa is a capable ranger. We'll
reach Hasic in time.”

 Senturus's nostrils flared as if he had just smelled something noxious. Keeping his smile fixed, the senior
paladin said to the elf, “Allow me to personally escort you to your quarters.” He glanced at one of his
subordinates. “Meric! Find a place to put the wizard. . . .”

 “This way,” grumbled a hulking young knight with a full mustache. He looked ready to take Rhonin by
the arm even if it meant breaking the limb in question. Rhonin could have taught him the folly of doing
that, but for the sake of his mission and peace between the various elements of the Alliance, he simply
took a quick step forward, coming up beside his guide and not saying a word through the entire journey.

 He had expected to be led to the most dank, most foul place in which they could honestly let him bed
down for the night, but instead Rhonin found himself with a room likely no more austere than those used
by the dour warriors themselves. Dry, clean, and with stone walls that surrounded him on all sides save
where the wooden door stood, it certainly served Rhonin better than some of the places he had stayed in
the past. A single, neatly kept wooden bed and a tiny table made up the decor. A wellused oil lamp
appeared to be the only means of illumination, not even the tiniest of windows evident. Rhonin thought of
at least requesting a window, but suspected the knights had nothing better to offer. Besides, this would
better serve to keep curious eyes from him.

 “This will do,” he finally said, but the young warrior who had brought Rhonin here had already begun to
depart, closing the door as he left. The wizard tried to recall if the outside handle had a bolt or some sort
of lock, but the paladins would surely not go that far. Damned soul Rhonin might be to them, but he was
still one of their allies. The thought of the mental discomfort that last put the knights through cheered him a
bit. He had always found the Knights of the Silver Hand a sanctimonious lot.

 His reluctant hosts left him alone until evening meal. He found himself seated far from Vereesa, who
seemed to have the commander's ear whether she wanted it or not. No one but the elf spoke more than a
few words to the wizard throughout the entire repast, and Rhonin would have left shortly after that if the
subject of dragons had not been brought up by none other than Senturus.
 “The flights have grown more common the last few weeks,” the bearded knight informed them. “More
common and more desperate. The orcs know that their time is short, and so they seek to wreak what
havoc they can before the day of their final judgment.” He took a sip of wine. “The settlement of Juroon
was set aflame by two dragons just three days ago, more than half its population dead in the ungodly
incident. That time, the beasts and their masters fled before the gryphon riders could reach the site.”

“Horrible,” Vereesa murmured.

 Duncan nodded, a glint of almost fanatical determination in his deep brown eyes. “But soon a thing past!
Soon we shall march on the interior of Khaz Modan, on Grim Batol itself, and end the threat of the last
fragments of the Horde! Orc blood will flow!”

“And good men'll die,” Rhonin added under his breath.

Apparently the commander had hearing as good as that of the elf, for his gaze immediately shifted to the
mage. “Good men will die, aye! But we have sworn to see Lordaeron and all other lands free of the orc
menace and so we shall, no matter what the cost!”

Unimpressed, the wizard returned, “But first you need to do something about the dragons, don't you?”

“They will be vanquished, spellcaster; sent to the underworld where they belong. If your devilish kind—”

 Vereesa softly touched the commander's hand, giving him a smile that made even Rhonin a bit jealous.
“How long have you been a paladin, Lord Senturus?”

 Rhonin watched with some amazement as the ranger transformed into an enchanted and enchanting
young woman, akin to those he had met in the royal court of Lordaeron. Her transformation in turn
changed Duncan Senturus. She teased and toyed with the graying knight, seeming to hang on his every
word. Her personality had altered so much that the observing wizard could scarce believe this was the
same female who had ridden as his guide and his guard for the past several days.

 Duncan went into great detail about his not-so-humble humble beginnings, as the son of a wealthy lord
who chose the order to make his name. Although surely the other knights had heard the story before,
they listened with rapt attention, no doubt seeing their leader as a shining example to their own careers.
Rhonin studied each briefly, noticing with some unease that these other paladins barely blinked, barely
even breathed, as they drank in the tale.

 Vereesa commented on various parts of his story, making even the most mundane accomplishments of
the elder man seem wondrous and brave. She downplayed her own deeds when Lord Senturus asked
her of her past training, although the mage felt certain that, in many skills, his ranger readily surpassed
their host.

 The paladin seemed enamored by her act and went on at tremendous length, but Rhonin finally had
enough. He excused himself—an announcement that drew the attention of no one—and hurried outside,
seeking air and solitude.

 Night had settled over the keep, a moonless dark that enveloped the tall wizard like a comforting
blanket. He looked forward to reaching Hasic and setting forth on his voyage to Khaz Modan. Only then
would he be done with paladins, rangers, and other useless fools who did nothing but interfere with his
true quest. Rhonin worked best alone, a point he had tried to make before the last debacle. No one had
listened to him then, and he had been forced to do what he had to in order to succeed. The others on that
mission had not heeded his warnings, nor understood the necessity of his dangerous work. With the
typical contempt of the nontalented, they had gone charging directly into the path of his grand spell . . .
and thus most had perished along with the true targets—a band of orc warlocks intent on raising from the
dead what some believed had been one of the demons of legend.

 Rhonin regretted each and every one of those deaths more than he had ever let on to his masters in the
Kirin Tor. They haunted him, urged him on to more risky feats . . . and what could be more risky than
attempting, all by himself, to free the Dragonqueen from her captors? He had to do it all by himself, not
only for the glory it would bring him, but also, Rhonin hoped, to appease the spirits of his former
comrades, spirits who never left him even a moment's rest. Even Krasus did not know about those
troubling specters—likely a good thing, as it might have made him question Rhonin's sanityandworth.

 The wind picked up as he made his way to the top of the keep's surrounding wall. A few knights stood
sentry duty, but word of his presence in the settlement had evidently traveled swiftly, and after the first
guard identified him by way of inspection by lantern, Rhonin once again became shunned. That suited him
well; he cared as little for the warriors as they did for him.

 Beyond the keep, the vague shapes of trees turned the murky landscape into something magical. Rhonin
found himself half-tempted to leave the questionable hospitality of his hosts and find a place to sleep
under an oak. At least then he would not have to listen to the pious words of Duncan Senturus, who, in
the mage's mind, seemed far more interested in Vereesa than a knight of the holy order should have been.
True, she had arresting eyes and her garments suited her form well—

 Rhonin snorted, eradicating the image of the ranger from his thoughts. His forced seclusion during his
penance had clearly had more of an effect on him than he had realized. Magic was his mistress, first and
foremost, and if Rhonindiddecide to seek the company of a female, he much preferred a more malleable
type, such as the well-pampered young ladies of the courts, or even the impressionable serving girls he
found occasionally during his travels. Certainly not an arrogant, elven ranger . . .

 Best to turn his attention to more important matters. Along with his unfortunate mount, Rhonin had also
lost the items Krasus had given him. He had to do his best to make contact with the other wizard, inform
him as to what had happened. The young mage regretted the necessity of doing so, but he owed too
much to Krasus to not try. By no means did Rhonin consider turning back; that would have ended his
hopes of ever regaining face not only among his peers but also with himself.

 He surveyed his present surroundings. Eyes that saw slightly better than average in the night detected no
sentries in the near vicinity. A watchtower wall shielded him from the sight of the last man he had passed.
What better place than here to begin? His room might have served, too, but Rhonin favored the open, the
better to clear the cobwebs from his thoughts.

 From a pocket deep within his robe he removed a small, dark crystal. Not the best choice for trying to
create communication across miles, but the only one left to him.

Rhonin held the crystal up to the brightest of the faint stars overhead and began to mutter words of
power. A faint glimmer arose within the heart of the stone, a glimmer that increased slowly in intensity as
he continued to speak. The mystical words rolled from his tongue—

And at that moment, the stars abruptlyvanished. . . .

Cutting off the spell in mid-sentence, Rhonin stared. No, the stars he had fixed on had not vanished; he
could see them now. Yet . . . yet for a brief moment, no more than the blink of an eye, the mage could
have sworn . . .

 A trick of the imagination and his own weariness. Considering the trials of the day, Rhonin should have
gone to bed immediately after dining, but he had first wanted to attempt this spell. The sooner he finished,
then, the better. He wanted to be fully rejuvenated come the morrow, for Lord Senturus would certainly
set an arduous pace.

 Once more Rhonin raised the crystal high and once more he began muttering the words of power. This
time, no trick of the eye would—

“What do you do there, spellcaster?” a deep voice demanded.

 Rhonin swore, furious at this second delay. He turned to the knight who had come across him and
snapped, “Nothing to—”

An explosion rocked the wall.

The crystal slipped from Rhonin's hand. He had no time to reach for it, more concerned with keeping
himself from tumbling over the wall to his death.

The sentry had no such hope. As the wall shook, he fell backward, first collapsing against the
battlements, then toppling over. His cry shook Rhonin until its very abrupt end.

 The explosion subsided, but not the damage caused by it. No sooner had the desperate wizard regained
his footing when a portion of the wall itself began to collapse inward. Rhonin leapt toward the
watchtower, thinking it more secure. He landed near the doorway and started inside—just as the tower
itself began to teeter dangerously.

Rhonin tried to exit, but the doorway crumbled, trapping him within.

He started a spell, certain that it was already too late. The ceiling fell upon him—

And with it came something akin to a gigantic hand that seized the wizard in such a smothering grip
Rhonin completely lost his breath . . . and all consciousness.


Nekros Skullcrusher brooded over the fate that the bones had rolled for him long, long ago. The grizzled
orc toyed with one yellowed tusk as he studied the golden disk in the meaty palm of his other hand,
wondering how one who had learned to wield such power could have been sentenced to playing
nursemaid and jailer to a brooding female whose only purpose was to produce progeny after progeny.
Of course, the fact that she was the greatest of dragons might have had something to do with that
role—that and the fact that with but one good leg Nekros could never hope to achieve and hold onto the
role of clan chieftain.

 The golden disk seemed to mock him. It always seemed to mock him, but the crippled orc never once
considered throwing it away. With it he had achieved a position that still kept him respected among his
fellow warriors . . . even if he had lost all respect for himself the day the human knight had hacked off the
bottom half of his left leg. Nekros had slain the human, but could not bring himself to do the honorable
thing. Instead, he had let others drag him from the field, cauterize the wound, and help build for Nekros
the support he needed for his maimed appendage.
 His eyes flickered to what remained of the knee and the wooden peg attached there. No more glorious
combat, no more legacy of blood and death. Other warriors had slain themselves for less grievous
injuries, but Nekroscouldnot. The very thought of bringing the blade to his own throat or chest filled him
with a chill he dared not mention to any of the others. Nekros Skullcrusher very much wanted to live, no
matter what the cost.

 There were those in Dragonmaw clan who might have already sent him on his way to the glorious
battlefields of the afterlife if not for his skills as a warlock. Early on, his talent for the arts had been
noticed, and he had received training from some of the greatest. However, the way of the warlock had
demanded from him other choices that Nekros had not wanted to make, dark choices that he felt did not
serve the Horde, but rather worked to undermine it. He had fled their ranks, returned to his warrior
ways, but from time to time his chieftain, the great Shaman, Zuluhed, had demanded the use of his other
talents—especially in what even most orcs had believed impossible, the capturing of the Dragonqueen,
Alexstrasza.

 Zuluhed wielded the ritualistic magicks of the ancient shaman belief as few had done since first the Horde
had been formed, but for this task, he had also needed to call upon the more sinister powers in which
Nekros had been trained. Through resources the wizened orc had never revealed to his crippled
companion, Zuluhed had uncovered an ancient talisman said to be capable of tremendous wonders. The
only trouble had been that it had not responded to shamanistic spellwork no matter how great the effort
put in by the chieftain. That had led Zuluhed to turn to the only warlock he felt he could trust, a warrior
loyal to Dragonmaw clan.

And so Nekros had inherited theDemon Soul.

Zuluhed had so named the featureless gold disk, although at first the other orc had not known why.
Nekros turned it over and over, not for the first time marveling at its impressive yet simplistic appearance.
Pure gold, yes, and shaped like a huge coin with a rounded edge. It gleamed in even the lowest light, and
nothing could tarnish its look. Oil, mud, blood . . . everything slipped off.

“This is older than either shaman or warlock magic, Nekros,”Zuluhed had told him.“I can do nothing
with it, but perhaps you can. . . .”

Trained though he was, the peg-legged orc had doubted that he, who had sworn off the dark arts, could
do better than his legendary chieftain. Still, he had taken the talisman and tried to sense its purpose, its
use.

Two days later, thanks to his astonishing success and Zuluhed's firm guidance, they had done what no
one would have imagined possible, especially the Dragon-queen herself.

 Nekros grunted, slowly raising himself to a standing position. His leg ached where the knee met the peg,
an ache intensified by the great girth of the orc. Nekros had no illusions about his ability to lead. He could
scarcely get around the caves as it was.

 Time to visit her highness. Make certain that she knew she had a schedule to maintain. Zuluhed and the
few other clan leaders left free still had dreams of revitalizing the Horde, stirring those abandoned by the
weakling Doomhammer into a revolt. Nekros doubted these dreams, but he was a loyal orc, and as a
loyal orc he would obey his chieftain's commands to the letter.

TheDemon Soulclutched in one hand, the orc trundled through the dank cavern corridors. Dragonmaw
clan had worked hard to lengthen the system already running through these mountains. The complex
series of corridors enabled the orcs to deal more readily with the burdensome task of raising and training
dragons for the glory of the Horde. Dragons filled up a lot of space and so needed separate facilities,
each of which had to be dug out.

Of course, there were fewer dragons these days, a point Zuluhed and others had made with Nekros
quite often lately. They needed dragons if their desperate campaign had any hope of succeeding.

“And how'm I supposed to make her breed faster?” Nekros grunted to himself.

 A pair of younger, massive warriors strode by. Nearly seven feet tall, each as wide as two of their
human adversaries, the tusked fighters dipped their heads briefly in recognition of his rank. Huge
battle-axes hung from harnesses on their backs. Both were dragon-riders, new ones. Riders had a death
ratio about twice that of their mounts, generally due to an unfortunate loss of grip. There had been times
when Nekros had wondered whether the clan would run out of able warriors before it ran out of
dragons, but he never broached the subject with Zuluhed.

 Hobbling along, the aging orc soon began to hear the telltale signs of the Dragonqueen's presence. He
noted labored breathing that echoed through the immediate area as if some steam vent from the depths of
the earth had worked its way up. Nekros knew what that labored breathing meant. He had arrived just in
time.

 No guards stood at the carved-out entrance to the dragon's great chamber, but still Nekros paused.
Attempts had been made in the past to free or slay the gargantuan red dragon within, but all those
attempts had ended in grisly death. Not from the dragon, of course, for she would have embraced such
assassins with relief, but rather from an unexpected aspect of the talisman Nekros held.

The orc squinted at what seemed nothing but an open passage. “Come!”

Instantly, the very air around the entrance flared. Tiny balls of flame burst into being, then immediately
merged. A humanoid form began to fill, then overflow, the entrance.

 Something vaguely resembling a burning skull formed where the head should have been. Armor that
appeared to be flaming bone shaped itself into the body of a monstrous warrior that dwarfed even the
enormous orcs. Nekros felt no heat from the hellish flames, but he knew that if the creature before him
touched the orc even lightly, pain such as even a seasoned fighter could not imagine would rake him.

 Among the other orcs it had been whispered that Nekros Skullcrusher had summoned one of the
demons of lore. He did not discourage that rumor, although Zuluhed knew better. The monstrous
creature guarding the dragon had no sense of independent thought. In attempting to harness the abilities
of the mysterious artifact, Nekros had unleashed something else. Zuluhed called it a golem of
fire—perhaps of the essence of demon power, but certainly not one of the supposedly mythical beings.

Whatever its origins or its previous use, the golem served as the perfect sentry. Even the fiercest
warriors steered clear of it. Only Nekros could command it. Zuluhed had tried, but the artifact from
which the golem had emerged seemed now tied to the one-legged orc.

“I enter,” he told the fiery creature.

 The golem stiffened . . . then shattered in a wild shower of dying sparks. Despite having witnessed this
departure time and time again, Nekros still backed up some, not daring to move forward until the last of
the sparks had faded away.
 The moment the orc stepped inside, a voice remarked, “I . . . knew . . . you would be . . . here soon. . .
.”

 The disdain with which the shackled dragon spoke affected her jailer not in the least. He had heard far
worse from her over the years. Clutching the artifact, he made his way toward her head, which, by
necessity, had been clamped down. They had lost one handler to her mighty jaws; they would not lose
another.

 By rights the iron chains and clamps should not have been sufficient to hold such a magnificent leviathan,
but they had been enhanced by the power of the disk. Struggle all she might, Alexstrasza would never be
able to free herself. That, of course, did not mean that she did not try.

 “Do you need anything?” Nekros did not ask out of any concern for her. He only wanted to keep her
alive for the Horde's desires.

 Once the crimson dragon's scales had gleamed like metal. She still filled the vast cavern tail to head, yet
these days her rib bones showed slightly underneath the skin and her words came out more beleaguered.
Despite her dire condition, though, the hatred in those vast, golden eyes had not faded, and the orc knew
that if the Dragonqueen everdidescape, he would be the first one down her gullet or fried to a crisp. Of
course, since the odds of that were so very minor, even one-legged Nekros did not worry.

“Death would be nice. . . .”

 He grunted, turning away from this useless conversation. At one point during her lengthy incarceration,
she had tried to starve herself, but the simple tactic of taking her next clutch of eggs and breaking one of
them before her horrified eyes had been enough to end that threat. Despite knowing that each hatchling
would be trained to terrorize the Horde's enemies and likely die because of that, Alexstrasza clearly held
out hope that someday they would be free. Shattering the egg had been like shattering a part of that
hope. One less dragon with the potential to be his own master.

 As he always did, Nekros inspected her latest clutch. Five eggs this time. A fair number, but most were
a bit smaller than usual. That bothered him. His chieftain had already remarked on the runts produced in
the last batch, although even a runt of a dragon stood several times higher than an orc.

 Dropping the disk into a secure pouch at his waist, Nekros bent to lift up one of the eggs. The loss of his
leg had not yet weakened his arms, and so the massive orc had little trouble hefting the object in question.
A good weight, he noted. If the other eggs were this heavy, then at least they would produce healthy
young. Best to get them down to the incubator chamber as soon as possible. The volcanic heat there
would keep them at just the right temperature for hatching.

As Nekros lowered the egg, the dragon muttered, “This is all useless, mortal. Your little war is all but
over.”

“You may be right,” he grunted, no doubt surprising her with his candor. The grizzled orc turned back to
his gargantuan captive. “But we'll fight to the end, lizard.”

 “Then you shall do so without us. My last consort is dying, you know that. Without him, there will be no
more eggs.” Her voice, already low, became barely audible. The Dragonqueen exhaled with effort, as if
the conversation had taxed her already weakening strength too much.
 He squinted at her, studying those reptilian orbs. Nekros knew that Alexstrasza's last consort was
indeed dying. They'd started out with three, but one had perished trying to escape over the sea and
another had died of injuries when the rogue dragon Deathwing had caught him by surprise. The third, the
eldest of the lot, had remained by his queen's side, but he had been centuries older than even Alexstrasza,
and now those centuries, coupled with past near-mortal injuries, had taken their toll.

“We'll find another, then.”

She managed to snort. Her words barely came out as a whisper. “And how . . . would you go about
doing that?”

 “We'll find one . . .” He had no other answer for her, but Nekros would be damned if he would give the
lizard that satisfaction. Frustration and anger long held in began to boil over. He hobbled toward her.
“And as for you, lizard—”

 Nekros had dared come within a few yards of the Dragonqueen's head, aware that, thanks to the
enchanted bonds, she would be unable to flame or eat him. Thus it was to his tremendous dismay that
suddenly Alexstrasza's head, brace and all, suddenly twisted toward him, filling his gaze. The dragon's
maw opened wide, and the orc had the distinctive displeasure of gazing deep into the gullet of the
creature who was about to make a snack of him.

Or would have, if not for Nekros's quick reaction. Clutching the pouch in which he carried theDemon
Soul,the warlock muttered a single word, thought a single command.

 A pained roar shook the chamber, sending chunks of rock falling from the ceiling. The crimson
behemoth pulled back her head as best she could. The brace around her throat glowed with such power
that the orc had to shield his eyes.

 Near him, the fiery servant of the disk materialized in a flash, dark eye sockets looking to Nekros for
command. The warlock, however, had no need for the creature, the artifact itself having dealt with the
nearly disastrous situation.

 “Leave,” he commanded the fire golem. As the creature departed in an explosive display, the crippled
orc dared walk before the dragon. A scowl spread across his ugly features, and the frustration of
knowing that he served a cause lost urged Nekros to greater anger at the leviathan's latest attempt on his
life.

 “Still full of tricks, eh, lizard?” He glared at the brace, which Alexstrasza had clearly worked long to
loosen from the wall. The enchantment affecting her bonds did not extend to the stone upon which they
were fastened, Nekros realized. That mistake had nearly cost him.

 But failing to achieve his death would now cost her. Nekros fixed his heavily browed gaze on the now
truly injured dragon.

 “A daring trick . . .” he snarled. “A daring trick, but a foolish one.” He held up the golden disk for her
widening eyes to see. “Zuluhed commanded I keep you as healthy as possible, but my chieftain also
commanded me to punish whenever I thought necessary.” Nekros tightened his grip on the artifact, which
now glowed bright. “Now is—”

 “Excuse this pitiful one's interruption, o gracious master,” came a jarring voice from within the cavern.
“but word's come you must hear, oh, you must!”
 Nekros nearly dropped the artifact. Whirling about as best he could with one good leg, the huge orc
stared down at a pitifully tiny figure with batlike ears and a vast set of sharp teeth set in a mad grin.
Nekros did not know what bothered him more, the creature himself or the fact that the goblin had
somehow managed to infiltrate the dragon's cavern without being stopped by the golem.

“You! How'd you get in here?” Reaching down, he grasped the tiny form by the throat and lifted him
upward. All thought of punishing the dragon vanished. “How?”

Even though he spoke words half-choked, the foul little creature still smiled. “J-just walked in, o
gracious m-master! Just w-walked in!”

 Nekros considered. The goblin must have entered when the fire golem had come to its master's aid.
Goblins were tricky and often found their way into places thought secure, but even this clever rogue
could not have worked his way inside otherwise.

He let the beast drop to the ground. “All right! Why come? What news do you bring?”

 The goblin rubbed his throat. “Only the most important, only the most important, I assure you!” The
toothy smile broadened. “Have I ever let you down, wondrous master?”

 Despite the fact that, deep down, Nekros felt that goblins had less of a sense of honor than a ground
slug, the orc had to admit that this one had never steered him wrong. Questionable allies at best, the
goblins played many games of their own, but always fulfilled the missions set upon them by Doomhammer
and, before him, the great Blackhand. “Speak, then, and be quick about it!”

 The devilish imp nodded several times. “Yes, Nekros, yes! I come to tell you that there is a plan under
way, more than one, actually, to free—” He hesitated, then cocked his head toward weary Alexstrasza,
“—that is, to cause great disaster to Dragonmaw clan's dreams!”

An uncomfortable sensation coursed down the orc's spine. “What do you mean?”

Again the goblin cocked his head toward the dragon. “Perhaps elsewhere, gracious master?”

 The creature had the right of it. Nekros glanced at his captive, who appeared to be unconscious from
pain and exhaustion. Still, better to be wary around her for now. If his spy brought him the news he
suspected, the orc warlock hardly wanted the Dragonqueen to hear the details.

 “Very well,” he grunted. Nekros hobbled toward the cavern entrance, already mulling over the likely
news. The goblin hopped beside him, grinning from ear to ear. Nekros felt tempted to wipe that annoying
smile off the other's face, but needed the creature for now. Still, for the slightest excuse . . . “This'd better
be good, Kryll! You understand?”

Kryll nodded as he hurried to keep up, his head bobbing up and down like a broken toy. “Trust me,
Master Nekros! Justtrustme. . . .”
FIVE



He had nothing to do with the explosion,” Vereesa insisted. “Why would he do something like that?”

 “He is a wizard,” Duncan returned flatly, as if that answered any and all questions. “They care nothing
about the lives and livelihoods of others.”

 Well aware of the prejudices of the holy order toward magic, Vereesa did not try to argue that point. As
an elf, she had grown up around magic, even could perform some slight bit herself, and so did not see
Rhonin in the terrible light that the paladin did. While Rhonin struck her as reckless, he did not seem to
her so monstrous as to not care about the lives of others. Had he not helped her during their flight from
the dragon? Why bother to risk himself ? He could still have gotten to Hasic on his own.

“And if he is not to blame,” Lord Senturus continued, “then where has he gone? Why is there no trace of
him in the rubble? If he is innocent of this, his body should be there along with the two of our brothers
who perished during his spell. . . .” The man stroked his beard slightly. “No, this foul work is the fault of
his, mark me.”

 And so you would hunt him down like an animal,she thought. Why else had Duncan summoned ten of his
best to ride with them in search of the missing spellcaster? What Vereesa had originally seen as a rescue
mission had quickly revealed itself as otherwise. When she and the rest had heard the explosion,
discovered the ruin, the elf had felt a twinge inside her heart. Not only had she failed to keep her
companion alive, but he and two other men had perished for no good reason. However, Duncan had
clearly from the first seen it otherwise, especially when a search had revealed no trace of Rhonin's corpse
among the rubble.

 Her first thought had been of goblin sappers, well-versed in sneaking up to a fortress and setting off
deadly charges, but the senior paladin had insisted that his region had been swept clean of any trace of
the elements of the Horde, goblins especially. While the foul little creatures did possess a few fantastic
and utterly improbable flying machines, none had been reported. Besides, such an airship would have had
to move with lightning speed to avoid detection, something not possible for the cumbersome devices.

Which, of course, left Rhonin as the most likely source of the destruction.

Vereesa did not believe it possible of him, especially since he had been so dedicated to fulfilling his
mission. She only hoped that if they found the young wizard she would be able to keep Duncan and the
others from running him through before they had a chance to find out the truth.

They had scoured the nearby countryside and were now headed toward the actual direction of Hasic.
Although it had been suggested by more than one of the younger knights that Rhonin had likely used his
magic to spirit himself away to his destination, Duncan Senturus had evidently not thought enough of the
wizard's abilities in that respect to take it to heart. He fervently believed that they would be able to track
down the rogue mage and bring him to justice.
 And as the day aged and the sun began its downward climb, even Vereesa began to question Rhonin's
innocence.Hadhe caused the disaster, then fled the murderous scene?

 “We shall have to make camp soon,” Lord Senturus announced some time later. He studied the
thickening woods. “While I do not expect trouble, it would serve us little good to go wandering through
the dark, possibly missing our quarry at our very feet.”

 Her own eyesight superior to that of her companions, Vereesa considered continuing on by herself, but
thought better of it. If the Knights of the Silver Hand discovered Rhonin without her, the wizard stood
little chance of surviving.

They rode on a bit farther, but spotted nothing. The sun slipped below the horizon, leaving only a faint
glow of light to illuminate their way. As he had promised, Duncan called a reluctant halt to the search,
ordering his knights to immediately set up camp. Vereesa dismounted, but her eyes continued to sweep
over the surrounding territory, hoping against hope that the fiery wizard would make himself known.

“He is nowhere about, Lady Vereesa.”

 She turned to look up at the lead paladin, the only man among the searchers tall enough to force her to
such an action. “I cannot help looking, my lord.”

“We will find the scoundrel soon enough.”

“We should hear his story first, Lord Senturus. Surely that is fair enough.”

 The armored figure shrugged as if it did not make a difference either way to him. “He will be given his
chance to make his penance, of course.”

After which they would either take Rhonin back in chains or execute him on the spot. The Knights of the
Silver Hand might be a holy order, but they were also known for their expedience in meting out justice.

 Vereesa excused herself from the senior paladin, not trusting her tongue to keep her from infuriating him
at this point. She led her horse to a tree at the edge of the campsite, then slipped in among the trees.
Behind her, the sounds of the camp muted as the elf moved farther into her own element.

 Again she felt the temptation to continue with the search on her own. So very easy for her to move lithely
through the forest, seek out those crevices and areas of thick foliage that might hide a corpse.

 “Always so eager to go rushing off, handling matters in your own inimitable style, eh, Vereesa?”her first
tutor had asked one day shortly after her induction into the select training program of the rangers. Only
the best were chosen for their ranks.“With such impatience, you might as well have been born a human.
Keep this up and you will not be among the rangers for very long. . . .”

Yet despite the skepticism of more than one of her tutors, Vereesa had prevailed and risen to among the
best of her select group. She could not now fail that training by turning reckless.

 Promising herself that she would return to the others after a few minutes' relaxation in the forest, the
silverhaired ranger leaned against one of the trees and exhaled. Such a simple assignment, and already it
had nearly fallen apart not once but twice. If they never found Rhonin, she would have to think of
something to say to her masters, not to mention even the Kirin Tor of Dalaran. None of the fault in this
lay with her, but—

 A sudden gust of wind nearly threw Vereesa from the tree. The elf managed to cling to it at the last
moment, but in the distance she could hear the frustrated calls of the knights and the wild clattering of
loose objects tossed about.

 As quickly as the wind struck, it suddenly died away. Vereesa pushed her disheveled hair from her face
and hurried back to camp, fearful that Duncan and the others had been attacked by some terrible force
akin to the dragon earlier that day. Fortunately, even as she approached, the ranger heard the paladins
already discussing the repair of their camp, and as she entered the area, Vereesa saw that, other than
bedrolls and other objects lying strewn about, no one seemed much out of sorts.

 Lord Senturus strode toward her, eyes filled with concern. “You are well, milady? No harm has come to
you?”

“Nothing. The wind surprised me, that is all.”

“Surprised everyone.” He rubbed his bearded jaw, gazing into the darkened forest. “It strikes me that no
normal wind blows in such a manner. . . .” He turned to one of his men. “Roland! Double the guard! This
may not be the end of this particular storm!”

“Aye, milord!” a slim, pale knight called back. “Christoff! Jakob! Get—”

 His voice cut off with such abruptness that both Duncan, who had turned back to the elf, and Vereesa
looked to see if the man had suddenly been struck down by an arrow or crossbow bolt. Instead, they
found him staring at a dark bundle lying amidst the bedrolls, a dark bundle with legs stretched together
and arms crossed over the chest, almost as if in deathly repose.

A dark bundle gradually recognizable as Rhonin.

 Vereesa and the knights gathered around him, one of the men holding a torch near. The elf bent down to
investigate the body. In the flickering light of the torch, Rhonin looked pale and still, and at first she could
not tell whether he breathed or not. Vereesa reached for his cheek—

And the eyes of the mage opened wide, startling everyone.

“Ranger . . . how nice . . . to see you again. . . .”

With that, his eyes closed once more and Rhonin fell asleep.

 “Fool of a wizard!” Duncan Senturus snapped. “You'll not up and vanish after good men have died, then
think you can simply reappear in our midst and go to sleep!” He reached for the spellcaster's arm,
intending to shake Rhonin awake, but let out a startled cry the moment his fingers touched the dark
garments. The paladin gazed at his gauntleted hand as if he had been bitten, snarling, “Some sort of
devilish, unseen fire surrounds him! Even through the glove it felt like seizing hold of a burning ember!”

 Despite his warning, Vereesa had to see for herself. Sure enough, she felt some discomfort when her
fingers touched Rhonin's clothes, but nothing of the intensity that Lord Senturus had described.
Nevertheless, the ranger pulled back her hand and nodded agreement. She saw no reason at the moment
why she should inform the senior paladin of the difference.
 Behind her Vereesa heard the scrape of steel as it slid from its sheath. She quickly glanced up at
Duncan, who had already begun shaking his head at the knight in question. “No, Wexford, a Knight of
the Silver Hand cannot slay any foe who cannot defend himself. The stain would be too great to our
oaths. I think we must post guards for the evening, then see what happens with our spellcaster here in the
morning.” Lord Senturus's weathered visage took on a grim aspect. “And, one way or another, justicewill
be served once he awakes.”

“I will stand by him,” Vereesa interjected. “No one else need do so.”

“Forgive me, milady, but your association with—”

 She straightened, staring the senior paladin in the eye as best she could. “You question the word of a
ranger, Lord Senturus? You question my word? Do you assume that I will help him flee again?”

“Of course not!” Duncan finally shrugged. “If that is what you want, then that is what you want. You
have my permission. Yet to do so all night with no relief—”

“That is my choice. Would you do any less with one left in your charge?”

Vereesa had him there. Lord Senturus finally shook his head, then turned to the other warriors and
began giving orders. In seconds, the ranger and the wizard were alone in the center of camp. Rhonin had
been left atop two of the bedrolls, the knights not certain as to how to remove them without getting
burned.

 She examined the sleeping form as best she could without touching him again. Rhonin's robes appeared
torn in places and the face of the wizard bore tiny scars and bruises, but otherwise he seemed to be
unharmed. His expression looked drained, however, as if he had suffered great exhaustion.

 Perhaps it was the near darkness through which she inspected him, but Vereesa thought that the human
looked so much more vulnerable now, even sympathetic. She also had to admit that he had fair looks,
although the elf quickly eliminated any other thoughts along that line. Vereesa tried to see if there was any
method by which she could make the unconscious mage's position more comfortable, but the only way to
do so would have meant revealing that she could tolerate touching him. That, in turn, might have
encouraged Lord Senturus to try to use her to better secure Rhonin, which went against the elf 's bond to
the mage.

 With no other recourse, Vereesa settled near the prone body and looked around, eyeing the area for
any possible threat. She still found Rhonin's sudden reappearance very questionable and, although he had
said little about it, clearly so did Duncan. Rhonin hardly seemed capable of having transported himself to
the midst of their camp. True, such an effort would explain why he now lay almost comatose, but it still
did not ring true. Rather, Vereesa felt as if she looked at a man who had been kidnapped, then tossed
back after the kidnapper had done with him what he would.

The only question that remained—who could have done such a fantastic thing . . . and why?


He woke knowing that they were all against him.

 Well, not all of them, perhaps. Rhonin did not know exactly where he stood—providing he could stand
at all— with the elven ranger. By rights, her oath to see him safely to Hasic should have meant she would
defend him even against the pious knights, but one never knew. There had been an elf in the party from
his last mission, an older ranger much like Vereesa. That ranger, however, had treated the wizard much
the same way as Duncan Senturus did, and without the elder paladin's level of tact.

 Rhonin exhaled lightly so as not to alert anyone just yet to his consciousness. He had only one way of
finding out where he stood with everyone, but he needed a few more moments to collect his thoughts.
Among the initial questions he would be asked would be his part in the disaster and what had happened
to him afterward. Some bit of the first half the weary wizard could answer. As for the second, they likely
knew as much as he.

He could delay no longer. Rhonin took another breath, then purposely stretched, as if waking.

Beside him, he heard slight movement.

 With planned casualness, the mage opened his eyes and looked about. To his relief
and—surprisingly—some pleasure, Vereesa's concerned countenance filled his immediate field of vision.
The ranger leaned forward, striking sky-blue eyes studying him close. Those eyes suited her well, he
thought for a moment . . . then quickly dismissed the thought as the sound of clanking metal warned him
that the others knew he had awakened.

“Back among the living, is he?” Lord Senturus rumbled. “We shall see how that lasts—”

The slim elf immediately leapt to her feet, blocking the paladin's path. “He has only just opened his eyes!
Give him time to recoup and eat at least before you question him!”

“I will deny him no basic right, milady, but he shall answer questionswhilehe has his breakfast, not after.”

 Rhonin had propped himself up by his elbows just enough to be able to see Duncan's scowling visage,
and knew that the Knights of the Silver Hand believed him to be some sort of traitor, possibly even a
murderer. The weakened mage recalled the one unfortunate sentry who had plummeted to his death and
suspected that there might have been more such victims. Someone had no doubt reported Rhonin's
presence on the wall, and the natural prejudices of the holy order had added up the facts and gotten the
wrong answer, as usual.

 He did not want to fight them, doubted that at this point he could even cast more than one or two light
spells, but if they tried to condemn him for what had happened at the keep, Rhonin would not hold back
to defend himself.

 “I'll answer as best I can,” the wizard replied, declining any aid from Vereesa as he struggled to his feet.
“But, yes, only with some food and water in my stomach.”

 The normally bland rations of the knights tasted sweet and delicious to Rhonin from the moment of the
first bite. Even the tepid water from one of the flasks seemed more like wine. Rhonin suddenly realized
that his body felt as if it had been forcibly starved for nearly a week. He ate with gusto, with passion, with
little care for manners. Some of the knights watched him with amusement, others, especially Duncan, with
distaste.

Just as his hunger and thirst at last began to level off, the questioning began. Lord Senturus sat down
before him, eyes already judging the spellcaster, and growled, “The time for confession is at hand, Rhonin
Redhair! You have filled your belly, now empty the burden of sin from your soul! Tell us the truth about
your misdeed on the keep wall. . . .”
Vereesa stood beside the recuperating mage, her hand by the hilt of her sword. She clearly had
positioned herself so as to act as his defender in this informal court, and not, Rhonin liked to think, simply
because of her oath. Certainly, after their experience with the dragon, she knew him better than these
oafs.

 “I'll tell you what I know, which is to say not much at all, my lord. I stood atop the keep wall, but the
fault of the destruction isn't mine. I heard an explosion, the wall shook, and one of your tin warriors had
the misfortune to fall over the side, for which you've my sympathy—”

 Duncan had not yet put on his helmet, and so now ran a hand through his graying, thinning hair. He
looked as if he fought the valiant struggle to maintain control of his temper. “Your story already has holes
as wide as the chasm in your heart, wizard, and you have barely even started! There are those who live,
despite your efforts, who saw you casting magic just before the devastation! Your lies condemn you!”

 “No,youcondemn me, just as you condemn all my kind for merely existing,” Rhonin quietly returned. He
took another bite of hard biscuit, then added, “Yes, my lord, I cast a spell, but one only designed to
communicate along the distances. I sought advice from one of my seniors on how to proceed on a
mission that has been sanctioned by the highest powers in the Alliance . . . as the honorable ranger here'll
vouch, I'd say.”

 Vereesa spoke even as the knight's eyes shifted to her. “His words bear truth, Duncan. I see no reason
why he would cause such damage—” She held up a hand as the elder warrior started to protest, no
doubt again pressing the point that all wizards became damned souls the moment they took up the art.
“—and I will meet any man, including you, in combat, if that is what it takes to restore his rights and
freedom.”

 Lord Senturus looked disgruntled at the thought of having to face the elf in battle. He glared at Rhonin,
but finally nodded slowly. “Very well. You have a staunch defender, wizard, and on her word and bond I
will accept that you are not responsible for what happened.” Yet the moment he finished the statement,
the paladin thrust a finger at the mage. “But I would hear more about your own experience during that
time and, if you can dredge it from your memories, how you come to be dropped in our midst like a leaf
fallen from a high tree. . . .”

Rhonin sighed, knowing he could not escape the telling. “As you wish. I'll try to tell you all I know.”

 It was not much more than he had related prior. Once more the weary mage spoke to them of his trek to
the wall, his decision to try to contact his patron, and the sudden explosion that had rocked the entire
section.

“You are certain of what you heard?” Duncan Senturus immediately asked him.

“Yes. While I can't prove it beyond doubt, it sounded like a charge being set off.”

 The explosion did not mean that goblins were responsible, but of course, years of war had ingrained
such thoughts into even the head of the wizard. No one had reported goblins in this part of Lordaeron,
but Vereesa came up with a suggestion. “Duncan, perhaps the dragon that pursued us earlier also carried
with it one or two goblins. They are small, wiry, and certainly capable of hiding at least for a day or two.
That would explain much.”

“It would indeed,” he agreed with reluctance. “And if so, we must be doubly vigilant. Goblins know no
other pastimes than mischief and destruction. They would certainly strike again.”
 Rhonin went on with his story, telling next how he fled to the dubious safety of the tower, only to have it
collapse about him. Here, though, he hesitated, knowing for certain that Senturus would find his next
words questionable, at the very least.

 “And then—something—seized me, my lord. I don't know what it was, but it took me up as if I was a
toy and whisked me away from the devastation. Unfortunately, I couldn't breathe because I was held so
tight, and when I next opened my eyes—” The wizard looked at Vereesa. “It was to see her face.”

 Duncan waited for more, but when it became clear that his wait would be fruitless, he slapped one hand
against his armored knee and shouted, “And that is it? That is all you know?”

“That's all.”

 “By the spirit of Alonsus Faol!” the paladin snapped, calling upon the name of the archbishop whose
legacy had led, through his apprentice, Uther Lightbringer, to the creation of the holy order. “You have
told us nothing,nothingof worth! If I thought for one moment—” A slight shift by Vereesa made him
pause. “But I have given my word and taken that of another. I will abide by my previous decision.” He
rose, clearly no longer interested in remaining in the company of the wizard. “I also make another
decision here and now. We are already on route to Hasic. I see no reason why we should not move on
as quickly as possible and get you to your ship. Let them deal with your situation as they see fit! We
leave in one hour. Be prepared, wizard!”

 With that, Lord Duncan Senturus turned and marched off, his loyal knights following immediately
thereafter. Rhonin found himself alone save for the ranger, who walked to a spot before him and sat
down. Her eyes settled on his. “Will you be well enough to ride?”

 “Other than exhaustion and a few bruises, I seem in one piece, elf.” Rhonin realized that his words had
come out a little sharper than he had intended. “I'm sorry. Yes, I'll be able to ride. Anything to get me to
the port on time.”

 She rose again. “I will prepare the animals. Duncan brought an extra mount, just in case we did find you.
I will see to it that it is waiting when you finish.”

As the ranger turned, an unfamiliar emotion rose within the tired spellcaster. “Thank you, Vereesa
Windrunner.”

Vereesa looked over her shoulder. “Taking care of the horses is part of my duty as your guide.”

“I meant about standing with me during what might have turned into an inquisition.”

“That,too, was part of my duty. I took an oath to my masters that I would see you to your destination.”
Despite her words, however, the corners of her mouth twitched upward for a moment in what might have
been a smile. “Better ready yourself, Master Rhonin. This will be no canter. We have much time to make
up.”

 She left him to his own devices. Rhonin stared at the dying campfire, thinking about all that had
happened. Vereesa did not know how close to the truth she had been with her simple statements. The
journey to Hasic would be no easy gallop, but not just for the sake of time.

He had not been entirely truthful with them, not even the elf. True, Rhonin had not left out any part of his
story, but he had left out some of his conclusions. He felt no guilt where the paladins were concerned, but
Vereesa's dedication to their journey and his safety stirred some feelings of remorse.

 Rhonin did not know who had set the charge. Goblins likely. He really did not care. What did concern
him was what he had quickly passed over, even misdirected. When he had talked of being seized from
the crumbling tower, he had not told them about having felt as if a giant hand had done so. They probably
would not have believed him or, in the case of Senturus, pointed at it as proof of his communing with
demons.

 A giant handhadsaved Rhonin, but no human one. Even his brief moment of consciousness had been
enough to recognize the scaly skin, the wicked, curved talons greater in length than his entire body.

Adragonhad rescued the wizard from certain death . . . and Rhonin had no idea why.




SIX



So where is he? I've little time to waste pacing around in these decadent halls!”

For what seemed the thousandth time, King Terenas silently counted to ten before responding to Genn
Greymane's latest outburst. “Lord Prestor will be here before long, Genn. You know he wants to bring
us all together on this matter.”

 “I don't know anything of the sort,” the huge man in black and gray armor grumbled. Genn Greymane
reminded the king of nothing less than a bear who had learned to clothe himself, albeit somewhat crudely.
He seemed fairly ready to burst through his armor, and if the ruler of Gilneas downed one more flagon of
good ale or devoured one more of the thick Lordaeron pastries Terenas's chefs had prepared, surely that
would happen.

 Despite Greymane's ursine appearance and his arrogant, outspoken manner, the king did not
underestimate the warrior from the south. Greymane's political manipulations had been legendary, this
latest no less so. How he had managed to give Gilneas a voice in a situation that should not have even
concerned the faraway kingdom still amazed Terenas.

 “You might as well tell the wind to stop howling,” came a more cultured voice from the opposite end of
the great hall. “You'll have more success there than getting that creature to quiet even for a moment!”

 They had all agreed to meet in the imperial hall, a place where, in times past, the most significant treaties
in all Lordaeron had been agreed to and signed. With its rich history and ancient but stately decor, the
hall cast an aura of tremendous significance upon any discussion taking place here . . . and certainly the
matter of Alterac was of significance to the continued life of the Alliance.

“If you don't like the sound of my voice, Lord Admiral,” Greymane snarled, “good steel can always
make certain you never hear it—or anything else—again.”
 Lord Admiral Daelin Proudmoore rose to his feet in one smooth, practiced sweep. The slim, weathered
seaman reached for the sword generally hanging at the side of his green naval uniform, but the sheath
there rattled empty. So, too, did the sheath of Genn Greymane. The one thing reluctantly agreed upon
from the first had been that none of the heads of state could carry arms into the discussions. They had
even agreed—evenGenn Greymane—to having themselves searched by selected sentries from the
Knights of the Silver Hand, the only military unit they all trusted despite its outward allegiance to Terenas.

 Prestor, of course, was the reason that this incredible summit had managed to reach even this point.
Rarely did the monarchs of the major realms come together. Generally, they spoke through couriers and
diplomats, with the occasional state visit thrown in as well. Only the amazing Prestor could have
convinced Terenas's uneasy allies to abandon their staffs and personal guard outside and join together to
discuss matters face-to-face.

Now, if only the young noble would himself arrive. . . .

 “My lords! Gentlemen!” Desperate for assistance, the king looked to a stern figure standing near the
window, a figure clad in leather and fur despite the relative warmth of the region. A fierce beard and
jagged nose were all Terenas could make out of Thoras Trollbane's gruff visage, but he knew that,
despite Thoras's intense interest in whatever view lay outside, the lord of Stromgarde had digested every
word and tone of his counterparts. That he did nothing to aid Terenas in this present crisis only served to
remind the latter of the gulf that had opened up between them since the start of this maddening situation.

Damn Lord Perenolde!the king of Lordaeron thought.If only he had not forced us into all of this!

 Although knights from the holy order stood by in case any of the monarchs came to actual blows,
Terenas did not fear physical violence so much as he did the shattering of any hope of keeping the human
kingdoms allied. Not for a moment did he feel that the orc menace had been forever eradicated. The
humans had to remain allied at this crucial moment. He wished Anduin Lothar, regent lord of the refugees
from the lost kingdom of Azeroth, could have been here, but that was not possible, and without Lothar,
that left only—

“My lords! Come, come! Surely this isn't seemly behavior for any of us!”

“Prestor!” Terenas gasped. “Praise be!”

The others turned as the tall, immaculate figure entered the great hall.Amazing the effect the man had on
his elders,so the king thought.He walks into a room and quarrels cease! Bitter rivals lay down their
weapons and talk of peace!

Yes, definitely the choice to replace Perenolde.

 Terenas watched as his friend went about the chamber, greeting each monarch in turn and treating all as
if they were his best friends. Perhaps they were, for Prestor seemed not to have an arrogant bone in his
body. Whether dealing with the rough-edged Thoras or the conniving Greymane, Prestor seemed to
know how best to speak with each of them. The only ones who had never seemed to fully appreciate him
had been the wizards from Dalaran, but then, they were wizards.

 “Forgive my belated arrival,” the young aristocrat began. “I'd ridden out into the countryside this morning
and not realized just how long it would take me to get back.”
“No need for apologies,” Thoras Trollbane kindly returned.

 Yet another example of Prestor's almost magical manner. While a friend and respected ally, Thoras
Trollbane never spoke kindly to anyone without much effort. He tended to speak in short, precise
sentences, then lapse into silence. The silences were not intended as insults, as Terenas had gradually
learned. Instead, the truth was that Thoras simply did not feel comfortable with long conversations. A
native of cold, mountainous Stromgarde, he much preferred action over talk.

Which made the king of Lordaeron even more pleased that Prestor had finally arrived.

 Prestor surveyed the room, meeting each gaze for a moment before saying, “How good it is to see all of
you again! I hope that this time we can resolve our differences so that our future meetings will be as good
friends and sword-mates. . . .”

 Greymane nodded almost enthusiastically. Proudmoore wore a satisfied expression, as if the noble's
coming had been the answer to his prayers. Terenas said nothing, allowing his talented friend to take
control of the meeting. The more the others saw of Prestor, the easier it would be for the king to present
his proposal.

 They gathered around the elaborately decorated ivory table that Terenas's grandfather had received as a
gift from his northern vassals, after his successful negotiations with the elves of Quel'Thalas over the
borders there. As he always did, the king planted both hands firmly on the tabletop, seeking to draw
guidance from his predecessor. Across the table, Prestor's eyes met his for a moment. Looking into those
strong, ebony orbs, the robed monarch relaxed. Prestor would handle any matters of dispute.

And so the talks began, first with stiff opening words, then more heated, blunt ones. Yet, under the
guidance of Prestor, never did any threat of violence arise. More than once he had to take one or another
of the participants in hand and engage in private conversation with them, but each time those intimate
dialogues ended with a smile on Prestor's hawklike visage and great advancement toward the mending of
Alliance ties.

As the summit tapered to a close, Terenas himself held such an exchange. While Greymane, Thoras, and
Lord Admiral Proudmoore drank from the finest of the king's brandy, Prestor and the monarch huddled
near the window overlooking the city. Terenas had always enjoyed this view, for from it he could see the
health of his people. Even now, even with the summit going on, his subjects went about their duties,
pushed on with their lives. Their faith in him bolstered his weary mind, and he knew that they would
understand the decision he would make this day.

 “I don't know how you did it, my boy,” he whispered to his companion. “You've made the others see
the truth, the need! They're actually sitting in this chamber, acting civilly with not only each other, but me!
I thought Genn and Thoras would demand my hide at one point!”

“I merely did what I could to assuage them, my lord, but thank you for your kind words.”

Terenas shook his head. “Kind words? Hardly! Prestor, my lad, you've single-handedly kept the
Alliance from crumbling to bits! What did you tell them all?”

 A conspiratorial look crossed his companion's handsome features. He leaned close to the monarch, eyes
fixed on Terenas's. “A little of this, a little of that. Promises to the admiral about his continued sovereignty
of the seas, even if it meant sending in a force to take control of Gilneas; to Greymane about future naval
colonies near the coastal edge of Alterac; and Thoras Trollbane thinks that he'll be ceded the eastern half
of that region . . . all when I become its legitimate ruler.”

 For a moment, the king simply gaped, not certain that he had heard right. He stared into Prestor's
mesmerizing eyes, waiting for the punch line to the awful joke. When it did not come, though, Terenas
finally blurted in a quiet voice, “Have you taken leave of your senses, my boy? Even jesting about such
matters is highly outrageous and—”

 “And you will not remember a thing about it, regardless, you know.” Lord Prestor leaned forward, his
eyes seizing Terenas's own gaze and refusing to release it. “Just as none of them will remember what I
truly told them. All you need to recall, my pompous little puppet, is that I have guaranteed a political
advantage for you, but one that demands for its culmination and success my appointment as ruler of
Alterac. Do you understand that?”

 Terenas understood nothing else. Prestor had to be chosen new monarch of the battered realm. The
security of Lordaeron and the stability of the Alliance demanded it.

 “I see that you do. Good. Now you will go back and, just as the conference comes to an end, you will
make your bold decision. Greymane already knows he will act the most reticent, but in a few days, he
will agree. Proudmoore will follow your lead and, after mulling the situation a bit, Thoras Trollbane will
also acquiesce to my ascension.”

 Something nudged at the robed king's memory, a notion he felt compelled to express. “No . . . no ruler
may be chosen without . . . without the agreement of Dalaran and the Kirin Tor. . . .” He struggled to
complete his thought. “They are members of the Alliance, too. . . .”

 “But who can trust a wizard?” Prestor reminded him. “Who can know their agenda? That's why I had
you leave them out of this situation in the first place, is it not? Wizards cannot be trusted . . . and
eventually they must be dealt with.”

“Dealt with . . . you're right, of course.”

 Prestor's smile widened, revealing what seemed far more teeth than normal. “I always am.” He put a
companionable arm around Terenas. “Now, it is time we returned to the others. You are very satisfied
with my progress. In a few minutes, you will make your suggestion . . . and we shall move on from there.”

“Yes . . .”

 The slim figure steered the king back to the other monarchs, and as he did, Terenas's thoughts returned
to the business at hand. Prestor's more dire statements now lay buried deep in the king's subconscious,
where the ebony-clad noble desired them.

 “Enjoying the brandy, my friends?” Terenas asked the others. After they nodded, he smiled and said, “A
case will go back with each of you, my gift for your visit.”

“A splendid show of friendship, wouldn't you say?” Prestor urged Terenas's counterparts.

They nodded, Proudmoore even toasting the monarch of Lordaeron.

 Terenas clasped his hands together. “And thanks to our young associate here, I think we'll all leave even
closer in heart than we were before.”
“We've not signed any agreement yet,” Genn Greymane reminded him. “We've not even agreed what to
do about the situation.”

Terenas blinked. The perfect opening. Why wait any longer to make his grand suggestion?

 “As to that, my friends,” the king said, taking Lord Prestor's arm and guiding him toward the head of the
table. “I think I've hit upon the solution that will appeal to us all. . . .”

King Terenas of Lordaeron smiled briefly at his young companion, who could not possibly have any idea
of the great reward he was about to receive. Yes, the perfect man for the role. With Prestor in charge of
Alterac, the future of the Alliance would be assured.

And then they could begin to deal with those treacherous wizards in Dalaran. . . .


***

“This is not right!” the heavyset mage burst out. “They've no cause to leave us out of this!”

“No, they don't,” returned the elder woman. “But they have.”

 The mages who had met earlier in the Chamber of the Air now met there again, only this time there were
five. The one that Rhonin would have known as Krasus had not taken his position in this magical place,
but the others were too concerned with the events of the outside world to wait. The lords of the
untalented had met in seclusion, discussing a major situation without the general guidance of the Kirin
Tor. While most among this council respected King Terenas and some of the other monarchs, it
disturbed them that the ruler of Lordaeron would put together such an unprecedented summit. One of the
inner council of the Kirin Tor had ever been present at such past events. It had only been fair, as Dalaran
had always stood at the forefront of the Alliance's defense.

Times, though, appeared to be changing.

“The Alterac dilemma could have been resolved long ago,” pointed out the elven mage. “We should
have insisted on our proper part in the proceedings.”

 “And started another incident?” retorted the bearded man in stentorian tones. “Haven't you noticed of
late how the other realms have been pulling back from us? It's almost as if they fear us now that the
orcs've been pushed to Grim Batol!”

“Absurd! The untalented have always been suspicious of magic, but our faith to the cause is without
question!”

 The elder woman shook her head. “When has that mattered to those who fear our abilities? Now that
the orcs have been battered, the people begin to notice that we're not like them; that we are superior in
every way. . . .”

“A dangerous way to think, even for us,” came the calm voice of Krasus. The faceless wizard stood in
his chosen spot.

 “About time you got here!” The bearded wizard turned toward the newcomer. “Did you find out
anything?”
“Very little. The meeting was unshielded . . . yet all we could read were surface thoughts. Those told us
nothing we did not know before. I finally had to resort to other methods to garner even some success.”

The younger female dared speak. “Have they made a decision?”

Krasus hesitated, then raised a gloved hand. “Behold . . .”

 In the center of the chamber, directly over the symbol etched in the floor, materialized a tall, human
figure. In every way, he looked as real, if not more so, than the gathered wizards. Majestic of frame, clad
in elegant, dark clothing and with features avian and handsome, he brought a moment of silence to the six.

“Who is he?” the same woman asked.

Krasus surveyed his companions before answering, “All hail the new ruler of Alterac,King Prestor the
First.”

“What?”

“This is outrageous!”

“They can't do this without us—can they?”

“Who is this Prestor?”

 Rhonin's patron shrugged. “A minor noble from the north, dispossessed, without backing. Yet, he seems
to have ingratiated himself not only to Terenas, but even the rest, Genn Greymane included.”

“But to make himking?” snapped the bearded spellcaster.

 “On the surface, not a terrible choice. It places Alterac as once more an independent kingdom. The
other monarchs find much about him they respect, so I gather. He seems to have single-handedly kept
the Alliance from falling apart.”

“So you approve of him?” the elder female asked.

 In reply, Krasus added, “He also seems to have no history, apparently is the reason we have not been
included in these talks, and—most curious of all—appears as a void when touched by magic.”

The others muttered among themselves about this strange news. Then the elven wizard, clearly as
puzzled as the rest, inquired, “What do you mean by the last?”

“I mean that any attempt to study him through magic revealsnothing.Absolutelynothing.It is as if Lord
Prestor does not exist . . . and yet he must. Approve of him? I think I fear him.”

 Coming from this eldest of the wizards assembled, the words sank deep. For a time the clouds flew
overhead, the storms raged, and the day turned into night, but the masters of the Kirin Tor simply stood
in silence, each digesting the facts in his or her own way.

The youthful male broke the silence first. “He's a wizard then, is he?”
“That would seem most logical.” Krasus returned, dipping his head slightly to accent his agreement.

“A powerful one,” muttered the elf.

“Also logical.”

 “Then, if so,” continued the elven mage, “who? One among us? A renegade? Surely a wizard of this
ability would be known to us!”

The younger woman leaned toward the image. “I don't recognize his face.”

“Hardly surprising,” retorted her elder counterpart. “When each of us could wear a thousand masks
ourselves . . .”

 Lightning flashed through Krasus, going unnoticed by him. “A formal announcement will take place in
two weeks. After that, unless one of the other monarchs changes his mind, this Lord Prestor will be
crowned king a month later.”

“We should lodge a protest.”

 “A start. However, what we really need to do, I think, is to find out the truth about this Lord Prestor,
search into every crevice and tomb and discover his past, his true calling. We dare not confront him
openly until then, for he surely has the backing of every member of the Alliance but us.”

 The elder woman nodded. “And even we cannot face the combined might of the other kingdoms, should
they find us too much of a nuisance.”

“No, we cannot.”

 Krasus dismissed the image of Prestor with a wave of his hand, but the young noble's countenance had
already been burned into the minds of each of the Kirin Tor. Through silence, they agreed on the
importance of this quest.

 “I must depart again,” Krasus said. “I suggest all of you do as I and think hard on this dire matter.
Follow all trails, no matter how obscure and impossible, but follow them swiftly. If the throne of Alterac
is filled by this enigma, I suspect that the Alliance will not long stand firm, however of one mind its rulers
presently are.” He took a breath. “And I fear that Dalaran may fall with the rest if that happens.”

“Because of this one man?” the bearded wizard spouted.

“Because of him, yes.”

And as the rest pondered his words, Krasus vanished again—


—to rematerialize in his sanctum, still shaken by what he had discovered. Guilt wracked him, for Krasus
had not been entirely truthful with his counterparts. He knew— or rathersuspected—far more about this
mysterious Lord Prestor than he had let on to the others. He wished that he could have told them
everything, yet not only would they have questioned his sanity, but even if they had believed him, it might
only have served to reveal too much about himself and his methods.
He could ill afford to do that at this desperate juncture.

 May they act as I hope they will.Alone in his darkened sanctum, Krasus dared at last pull back his hood.
A single dim light with no visible source offered the only illumination in the chamber, and in its soft glow
stood revealed a handsome, graying man with angular features treading near the cadaverous. Black,
glittering eyes hinted of even more age and weariness than the rest of the visage. Three long scars
traveled side by side down the right cheek, scars that, despite their age, still throbbed with some pain.

 The master wizard turned his left hand over, revealing the gloved palm. Atop that palm suddenly
materialized a sphere of light blue. Krasus passed his other hand over the sphere and immediately images
formed within. He leaned back to observe those images, a high stone chair sliding into place behind him.

 Once more Krasus observed the palace of King Terenas. The regal stone structure had served the
monarchs of the realm for generations. Twin turrets rising several stories flanked the main edifice, a gray,
stately structure like a miniature fortress. The banners of Lordaeron flew prominently not only from the
turrets, but the gated entrance as well. Soldiers clad in the uniforms of the King's Guard stood station
outside the gates, with several members of the Knights of the Silver Hand on duty within. Under normal
conditions, the paladins would not have been a part of the defense of the palace, but with some minor
matters still to be discussed by the various monarchs visiting, clearly the trustworthy warriors were
needed now.

 Again the wizard passed his other hand over the sphere. To the left of the vision of the palace emerged
the picture of an inner chamber. Staring at it, the wizard brought the chamber into better view.

 Terenas and his youthful protégé. So, despite the end of the summit and the other rulers' imminent
departures, Lord Prestor still remained with the king. Krasus felt a great temptation to try to probe the
mind of the ebonyclad aristocrat, but thought better of it. Let the others attempt that likely impossible
feat. One such as Prestor would no doubt expect such incursions and deal with them promptly. Krasus
did not want to reveal his hand just yet.

 However, if he dared not probe the thoughts of the man, at least he could research his background . . .
and where better to start that than at the chateau where the regal refugee had taken up residence under
the king's protection? Krasus waved one hand over the sphere and a new image formed, that of the
building in question, as viewed from far away. The wizard studied it for a moment, seeing and detecting
nothing of consequence, then sent his magical probe closer.

 As his probe neared the high wall surrounding the building, a minor spell, much minor than he had
expected, briefly prevented his entry. Krasus readily sidestepped the spell without setting it off. Now his
view revealed the very exterior of the chateau, a rather morbid place despite its elegant facade. Prestor
evidently believed in keeping a neat house, but not necessarily a pleasant one. Not at all a surprise to the
mage.

 A quick search revealed yet another defensive spell, this one more elaborate yet still nothing Krasus
could not circumnavigate. With one deft gesture, the angular figure once more bypassed Prestor's
handiwork. Another moment and Krasus would be inside, where he could—

His sphere blackened.

The blackness spread beyond the edges of the sphere.

The blacknessreachedfor the wizard.
 Krasus threw himself from the chair. Tentacles of purest night enveloped the stone seat, pouring over it
as they would have the mage himself. As Krasus came to his feet, he watched the tentacles pull
away—leaving no trace of the chair behind.

Even as the first tentacles reached for him, more sprouted from what remained of the magical orb. The
mage stumbled back, for one of the few times in his life momentarily startled into inaction. Then, recalling
himself, Krasus muttered words not heard by another living soul in several lifetimes, words he himself had
never uttered, only read with fascination.

 A cloud sparkled into life before him, a cloud that thickened like cotton. It immediately flowed toward
the seeking tentacles, meeting them in midair.

The first tentacles to touch the soft cloud crumbled, turning to ash that faded even as it touched the floor.
Krasus let out an exhalation of relief—then watched in horror as the second set of tentacles enshrouded
his counterspell.

“It cannot be . . .” he muttered, eyes wide. “It cannot be!”

As the others had done to the chair, these ebony limbs now took in the cloud, absorbed it,devouredit.

 Krasus knew what he faced. Only theEndless Hunger,a spell forbidden, acted so. He had never
witnessed its casting before, but any who had studied the arts as long as he had would have recognized
its foul presence. Yet, something had been changed, for the counterspell he had chosen should have been
the one to end the threat. For a minute it had seemed to . . . and then a sinister transformation had
occurred, a shifting in the dark spell's essence. Now the second set of tentacles came at him, and Krasus
did not immediately know how to stop them from adding him to their meal.

He considered fleeing the chamber, but knew that the monstrous thing would simply continue after him
no matter where in the world Krasus might hide. That had been part of theEndless Hunger's special
horror; its relentless pursuit generally wore the victim down until he simply gave up.

No, Krasus had to put a stop to it here and now.

One incantation remained that might do the work. It would drain him, leave him useless for days, but it
did have the potential to rid Krasus of this dire threat.

Of course, it also could kill him as readily as Lord Prestor's trap would.

 He threw himself aside as one tentacle reached out. No more time to weigh matters. Krasus had only
seconds to formulate the spell. Even now theHungermoved to cut him off, to envelop him whole.

 The words which the elder mage whispered would have sounded to the ordinary person like the
language of Lordaeron spoken backwards, with the wrong syllables emphasized. Krasus carefully
pronounced each, knowing that even one slip due to his predicament meant utter oblivion for him. He
thrust out his left hand toward the reaching blackness, trying to focus on the very midst of the expanding
horror.

The shadows moved swifter than he had thought possible. As the last few words fell from his tongue, the
Hungercaught him. A single, slim tentacle wrapped itself around the third and fourth fingers of his
outstretched hand. Krasus felt no pain at first, but before his eyes those fingers simply faded, leaving
open, bleeding wounds.

He spat out the last syllable just as agony suddenly coursed through his body.

The sun exploded within his tiny sanctum.

 Tentacles melted away like ice caught in a furnace. Light so brilliant it blinded Krasus even with his eyes
shut tight filled every corner and crack. The wizard gasped and fell to the floor clutching his maimed
hand.

A hissing sound assailed his ears, sending his already heightened pulse racing more. Heat, incredible
heat, seared his skin. Krasus found himself praying for a swift end.

 The hiss became a roar that rose and rose in intensity, almost as if a volcanic eruption were about to
take place in the very midst of the chamber. Krasus tried to look, but the light remained too
overwhelming. He pulled himself into a fetal position and prepared for the inevitable.

And then . . . the light simply ceased, plunging the chamber into a still darkness.

The master mage could not at first move. If theHungerhad come for him now, it would have found him
without the ability to resist. He lay there for several minutes, trying to regain his sense of reality and, when
he finally recalled it, stem the flow of blood from his terrible wound.

 Krasus passed his good hand over the injured one, sealing the bloody gap. He would not be able to
repair the damage. Nothing touched by the dark spell could ever be regenerated.

 He finally dared open his eyes. Even the unlit room initially appeared too bright, but, gradually, his eyes
adjusted. Krasus made out a couple of shadowed forms— furniture, he believed—but nothing more.

“Light . . .”the battered spellcaster muttered.

 A small emerald sphere burst into being near the ceiling, shedding dim illumination across the chamber.
Krasus scanned his surroundings. Sure enough, the shapes he had seen were his remaining bits of
furniture. Only the chair had not survived. As for theHunger,it had been completely eradicated. The cost
had been great, but Krasus had triumphed.

 Or perhaps not. So much catastrophe in the space of a few seconds, and he did not even have anything
to show for it. His attempt to probe the chateau of Lord Prestor had ended in defeat.

And yet . . . and yet . . .

 Krasus dragged himself to his feet, summoned a new chair identical to the first. He fell into the chair
gasping. After a momentary glance at his ruined appendages to assure himself that the bleeding had
indeed stopped, the wizard summoned a blue crystal with which to once more view the noble's abode. A
horrific notion had just occurred to him, one that, after all that had happened, he believed he could now
verify with but a short, safe glimpse.

There!The traces of magic were evident. Krasus followed the traces further, watched their intertwining.
He had to be careful, lest he reawaken the foulness he had just escaped.

Verification came. The skill with which theEndless Hungerhad been cast, the complexity with which its
essence had been altered so as to make his first counterattack unsuccessful—both pointed to knowledge
and technique beyond even that of the Kirin Tor, the best mages humanity and even the elves could offer.

But there was another race whose trafficking in magic went farther back than the elves.

 “I know you now. . . .” Krasus gasped, summoning a view of Prestor's proud visage. “I know you now,
despite the form you wear!” He coughed, had to catch his breath. The ordeal had taken much out of
Krasus, but the realization of just whose power he had confronted in many ways struck him deeper than
any spell could have. “I know you—Deathwing!”




SEVEN



Duncan reined his horse to a halt. “Something is wrong here.”

Rhonin, too, had that feeling, and coupled with his suspicions over what had happened to him at the
keep, he could not help wondering if what they observed now somehow related to his journey.

 Hasic lay in the distance, but a subdued, silent Hasic. The wizard could hear nothing, no sound of
activity. A port such as this should have been bustling with noise loud enough to reach even their party.
Yet, other than a few birds, he could make out no sound of life.

 “We received no word of trouble,” the senior paladin informed Vereesa. “If we had, we would have
ridden here immediately.”

“Maybe we are just overanxious because of the trek.” Yet even the ranger spoke in low, cautious tones.

 They sat there for so long that Rhonin finally had to take matters into his own hands. To the surprise of
the others, he urged his mount forward, determined to reach Hasic with or without the rest.

 Vereesa quickly followed, and Lord Senturus naturally hurried after her. Rhonin held back any
expression of amusement as the Knights of the Silver Hand pushed forward to take the lead from him.
He could tolerate their arrogance and pomposity for a little longer. One way or another, the wizard and
his undesired companions would depart company in the port.

That is . . . if anything was left of the port.

Even their mounts reacted to the silence, growing more and more tentative. At one point, Rhonin had to
prod his animal to move on. None of the knights made jests over his difficulty, though.

 To their relief, as the party drew nearer, they did begin to hear some sounds of life from the direction of
the port. Hammering. A few voices raised. Wagon movement. Not much, but at least proof that Hasic
had not become a place of ghosts.
Still, they approached cautiously, aware that something did not sit well. Vereesa and the knights kept
one hand by their sword hilts, while Rhonin began running through his spells in his mind. No one knew
what to expect, but they all clearly expected it soon.

 And just as they rode within sight of the town gate, Rhonin spotted three ominous forms rising into the
sky.

 The wizard's horse shied. Vereesa grabbed hold of the reins for Rhonin and brought the animal under
control. Some of the knights began to draw their swords, but Duncan immediately signaled them to return
the weapons to their sheaths.

Moments later, a trio of gigantic gryphons descended before the group, two alighting onto the tops of the
mightiest trees, the third landing directly in their path.

“Who rides toward Hasic?” demanded its rider, a bronze-skinned, bearded warrior who, despite likely
not even coming up to the mage's shoulder, looked capable of lifting not only him, but his horse as well.

Duncan immediately rode forward. “Hail to you, gryphon-rider! I am Lord Duncan Senturus of the order
of the Knights of the Silver Hand, and I lead this party to the port! If you will permit a question, has some
misfortune befallen Hasic?”

 The dwarf gave a harsh laugh. He had none of the stout look of his more earthbound cousins, instead
seeming more like a barbarian warrior who had been taken by a dragon and crushed to half-size. This
one had shoulders even wider than those of the strongest knight and muscles that rippled of their own
accord. A wild mane of hair fluttered behind the stocky, unyielding face.

 “If you can call a pair of dragons just a misfortune, then, yes, Hasic suffered one! They came three days
ago, tearing apart and burning anything they could! If not for my flight here having arrived that very
morning, you'd find none of your precious port intact, human! They had barely begun when we took them
in the sky! A glorious battle it was, though we lost Glodin that day!” The dwarves slapped a fist over
their hearts. “May his spirit fight proud through eternity!”

 “We saw a dragon,” Rhonin interjected, fearful for a moment that the trio would break into one of the
epic mourning songs he had heard about. “About that time. With an orc handler. Three of you came and
fought it—”

 The lead rider had scowled at him as soon as his mouth had opened, but at mention of the other struggle,
the dwarf 's eyes had lit up and a wide smile had returned to his face. “Aye, that was us as well, human!
Tracked down the cowardly reptile and took him in the sky! A good and dangerous fight that was, too!
Molok up there—” He indicated a fuller, slightly bald dwarf atop the tree to Rhonin's right. “—lost a fine
ax, but at least he still has his hammer, eh, Molok?”

“Would rather shave off my beard than lose my hammer, Falstad!”

 “Aye, 'tis the hammer that impresses the ladies most, 'tisn't it?” Falstad replied with a chuckle. The dwarf
seemed to notice Vereesa for the first time. Brown eyes glittered bright. “And here's a fine elven lady
now!” He made a bad attempt at a bow while still atop the gryphon. “Falstad Dragonreaver at your
service, elven lady!”

Rhonin belatedly recalled that the elves of Quel-'Thalas had been the only other people whom the wild
dwarves of the Aeries truly trusted. That, of course, did not look to be the entire reason why Falstad
now focused on Vereesa; like Senturus, the gryphon-rider clearly found her very attractive.

“My greetings, Falstad,” the silver-haired ranger solemnly returned. “And my congratulations on a
victory well fought. Two dragons are much for any flight group to claim.”

 “All a day's task for mine, all a day's task!” He leaned as near as he could. “We've not been graced with
any of your folk in this area, though, especially not so fine a lady as yourself! In what way can this poor
warrior serve you best?”

 Rhonin felt the hair on the nape of his neck bristle. The dwarf 's tone, if not his words, offered more than
simple assistance. Such things should not have disturbed the wizard, yet for some reason they did at this
moment.

 Perhaps Duncan Senturus felt the same way, for he answered before anyone else could. “Your offer of
aid is appreciated, but likely not necessary. We have but to reach the ship that awaits this wizard so that
he may be on his way from our shores.”

 The paladin's response made it sound as if Rhonin had been exiled from Lordaeron. Gritting his teeth,
the frustrated mage added, “I am on an observation mission for the Alliance.”

Falstad appeared unimpressed. “We've no cause to stop you from entering Hasic and searching for your
vessel, human, but you'll find that not so many remain after the dragons attacked. Likely yours is flotsam
on the sea!”

The thought had already occurred to Rhonin, but hearing it from the dwarf made the point sink home.
However, he could not be defeated this early in his quest. “I have to find out.”

“Then we'll be out of your way.” Falstad urged his mount forward. He took one last long glance at
Vereesa and grinned. “A definite pleasure, my elven lady!”

 As the ranger nodded, the dwarf and his mount rose up into the air. The massive wings created a wind
that blew dust into the eyes of the party, and the sudden nearness of the gryphon as it left the ground
made even the most hardened of the horses step back. The other riders joined Falstad, the three
gryphons quickly dwindling in the heavens. Rhonin watched the already faint forms bank toward Hasic,
then fly off at an incredible rate of speed.

Duncan spat dust from his mouth; from his expression, his opinion of the dwarves was clearly not that
much higher than what he thought of wizards. “Let us ride. We may still find fortune on our side.”

 Without another word they rode toward the port. It did not take long for them to see that Hasic had
suffered even more than Falstad had let on. The first buildings they came across stood more or less
intact, but with each passing moment the visible damage intensified. Crop fields in the outer lands had
been scorched, the landowners' domiciles reduced to splinters. Stronger structures with stone bases had
withstood the onslaught much better, but now and then they saw one that had been completely
demolished, as if one of the dragons had chosen that place to alight.

 The stench of burnt matter especially touched the wizard's heightened senses. Not everything the two
leviathans had charred had been made of wood. How many of Hasic's inhabitants had perished in this
desperate raid? On the one hand, Rhonin could actually appreciate the desperation of the orcs, who
certainly had to know by now that their chances of winning the war had dropped to nil, but on the other
hand . . . deaths such as these demanded justice.
 Curiously, several areas near the very harbor itself looked entirely intact. Rhonin would have expected
these to be in the worst condition, but other than a sullenness among the workers they saw, everything
here looked as if Hasic had never been attacked.

“Perhaps the ship survived after all,” he muttered to Vereesa.

“I do not think so. Not if that is any sign.”

 He looked out into the harbor itself, to the place at which the ranger pointed. The wizard squinted, trying
to identify what exactly he saw.

 “The mast of a ship, spellcaster,” Duncan gruffly informed him. “The rest of the vessel and her valiant
crew no doubt reside in the water below.”

 Rhonin bit back a curse. Surveying the harbor, he now saw that bits and pieces of wood and other
material dotted the surface, flotsam from more than a dozen ships, the mage suspected. Now he realized
in part why the port itself had survived; the orcs must have directed their mounts to attack the Alliance
vessels first, not wanting them to escape. It did not explain why the outer reaches of Hasic had suffered
worse than the interior, but perhaps most of that damage had taken place after the coming of the
gryphon-riders. Not the first time that a settlement had found itself caught in the midst of a violent struggle
and suffered for it. Still, the devastation would have been a lot worse if the dwarves had not come along.
The orcs would have had their dragons level the port and try to slay everyone within sight.

Speculation, however, did not help with the problem at hand, namely the fact that now he had no ship on
which to travel to Khaz Modan.

 “Your quest is ended, wizard,” Lord Senturus announced for no good reason that Rhonin could see.
“You have failed.”

“There may yet be a boat. I've the funds to hire one—”

 “And who here will sail to Khaz Modan for your silver? These poor wretches have suffered through
enough trials. Do you expect some of them to sail willingly to a land still held by the very orcs who did
this?”

“I can only try to find out. I thank you for your time, my lord, and wish you well.” Turning to the elf,
Rhonin added, “And you as well, rang—Vereesa. You're a credit to your calling.”

She looked startled. “I'm not leaving you yet.”

“But your task—”

“Is incomplete. I cannot in good conscience leave you here with nowhere to go. If you still seek a way to
Khaz Modan, I shall do what I can to help you—Rhonin.”

 Duncan suddenly straightened in the saddle. “And certainly we cannot leave matters so, either! By our
honor, if you believe this task still worthy of continuation, then I and my fellows will also do what we can
to seek transport for you!”

Vereesa's decision to remain for the time being had pleased Rhonin, but he could have done without the
Knights of the Silver Hand. “I thank you, my lord, but there're many in need here. Wouldn't it be best if
your order helped the good people of Hasic to recover?”

 For the space of a breath, he actually thought that he had rid himself of the elder warrior, but after some
clear deliberation with himself, Duncan finally announced, “Your words have some merit for once,
wizard, yet I think we can arrange that both your mission and Hasic can benefit from our presence. My
men will aid the citizens in recovery efforts while I take a personal hand in seeing if we can find a craft for
you! That should settle the matter rightly, eh?”

Defeated, Rhonin simply nodded. At his side, Vereesa reacted with more grace. “Your assistance will
no doubt prove invaluable, Duncan. Thank you.”

 After the senior paladin had sent the other knights on their way, he, Rhonin, and the ranger briefly
discussed how best to go about their search. They soon agreed that separate paths would cover more
ground, with all three returning at evening meal to discuss any possibilities. Lord Senturus clearly doubted
that any of them would have success, but his duty to Lordaeron and the Alliance—and possibly his
infatuation with Vereesa— demanded he do his part.

 Rhonin scoured the northern area of the port, seeking out any craft larger than a dinghy. The dragons
had been thorough, however, and as the day waned, he found himself with nothing yet to report. It
gradually got to the point where he remained uncertain as to which bothered him more—being unable to
find transport, or fearing that the so-grand lord knight would be the one to present them with the answer
to Rhonin's predicament.

 There were methods by which a wizard could span such long distances, but only those like the both
legendary and cursed Medivh had ever used them with confidence. Even if Rhonin did successfully cast
the spell, he risked not only possible detection by any orc warlock in the area, but also unexpected
changes in his destination due to the emanations from the region where the Dark Portal lay. Rhonin did
not want to find himself materializing over an active volcano. Yet, by what other method could he make
his journey?

 While he struggled to find an answer, the recovery of Hasic took place around him. Women and children
gathered what wreckage they found floating in from the harbor, scavenging whatever still seemed of use
and piling the rest to one side for later disposal. A special unit of the town guard went along the shoreline,
searching for the waterlogged corpses of any of the mariners who had gone down with their ships. A few
of the people stared at the somber, dark-clad mage as he walked among them, some of the parents
pulling their children to them as he passed. Now and then Rhonin read expressions that hinted of blame,
as if somehow he had been responsible for this terrible assault. Even under such dire conditions the
common folk could not forget their prejudices and fears concerning his kind.

 Above him, a pair of the gryphons flew past, the dwarves maintaining watch for any new attack. Rhonin
doubted the region would be seeing any dragon strikes soon, the last one having cost the orcs far too
much. Falstad and his companions would have better served the port by landing and helping those left,
but the wary spellcaster suspected that the dwarves, not the most friendly of Lordaeron's allies, preferred
to stay aloft and aloof. Given any good reason, they no doubt would have even abandoned Hasic entirely
rather than—

Another reason?

 “Of course . . .” Rhonin muttered. He watched the two creatures and their riders descend to the
southwest. Who else but the dwarves might find his offer tempting? Who else was insane enough?
Disregarding the spectacle he might be making of himself, Rhonin ran after the dwindling figures.


Vereesa left the southernmost edge of the docks in total disgust. Not only had she met with no success,
but of all the human settlements she had visited, Hasic ranked among the highest in stench. It had little to
do with the disaster or even the smell of fish. Hasic just stank. Most humans had little enough sense of
smell; the people here clearly had none.

 The ranger wanted to be rid of this place, to return to her own kind so that she could be appointed to a
more critical role, but until Vereesa could satisfy herself that she had done all she could for Rhonin, the
ranger could not, in good conscience, depart. Yet there seemed no method by which the wizard might
continue with his journey, one she now remained positive had to do with more than simply observation.
Rhonin had revealed himself far too determined to be simply going on such a minor mission. No, he had
something else in mind.

If only she knew what it might be . . .

 The time for evening meal fast approached. With no sign of hope, the ranger headed inland, utilizing the
most direct streets and alleys available despite the sometimes overwhelming scents. Hasic also maintained
land routes to its neighbors, especially the major realms of Hillsbrad and Southshore. Although it would
take more than a week to reach either one, perhaps that remained the only chance.

“Well . . . my beautiful elven lady!”

 She looked the wrong way at first, thinking one of the humans spoke so with her, but then Vereesa
recalled who had last used such terms. The ranger turned to her right and shifted her gaze more
earthward . . . there to see Falstad in all his half-sized glory, the wild dwarf 's eyes bright and his mouth
open in a wide, knowing grin. He carried a sack over one shoulder and had his great hammer slung over
the other. The weight of either would have left many an elf or human slumping from effort, but Falstad
carried both with the ease of his kind.

“Master Falstad. Greetings to you.”

“Please! I am Falstad to my friends! I am master of nothing save my own wondrous fate!”

 “And I am simply Vereesa to my friends.” Although the dwarf seemed to have a high opinion of himself,
something in his manner made it hard not to like him, albeit not as much as Falstad possibly hoped. He
did little to hide his interest in her, even allowing his eyes now and then to wander below her face. The
ranger decided she had to deal with that situation immediately. “And they remain my friends only so long
as they treat me with the respect with which I in turn treat them.”

The dark orbs shot back up to meet her own, but otherwise Falstad pretended innocence. “How goes
your quest to set the wizard on the water, my elven lady? Not good, I'd say, not good at all!”

 “No, not good. It seems that the only vessels not damaged took to the sea as soon as they could for
safer climes. Hasic is a port without function. . . .”

“A pity, a pity! We should discuss this further over a good flagon of spirits! What say you?”

She held back the slight smile his jovial persistence stirred. “Another time, perhaps. I still have a task to
fulfill and you—” Vereesa indicated the sack “—seem to have one of your own.”

 “This little pouch?” He swung the heavy sack around with ease. “Some small bit of supplies, enough to
last us until we leave this human place. All I need do is give them to Molok and you and I can be on our
way to—”

 The polite yet more blunt refusal forming on the ranger's lips died away as the angry squawk of a
gryphon some short distance away—followed by voices rising in argument—set both her and Falstad to
full alertness. Without a word the dwarf turned from her, sack dropped to the ground and stormhammer
already unslung. He moved with such incredible swiftness for one of his build and size that even though
Vereesa immediately followed after, Falstad had already vanished halfway down the street.

 Vereesa unsheathed her own weapon, picking up her pace. The voices grew stronger, more strident,
and she had the uncomfortable feeling that one of them belonged to Rhonin.

 The street quickly gave way to one of the open areas caused by the devastation. Here some of the
gryphonriders awaited their leader, and here the wizard had apparently decided to accost them for some
inexplicable reason. Wizards had often been called mad, but surely Rhonin had to be one of the most
insane if he thought himself safe in arguing with wild dwarves.

And, in fact, one of them already had the mage by the clasp of his robe and had lifted the human up
more than a foot off the ground.

“I said leave us be, foul one! If your ears don't be working, then I might as well tear them off!”

“Molok!” Falstad shouted. “What's this spellcaster done that's so enraged you?”

 Still holding Rhonin in the air, the other dwarf, who could have been Falstad's twin save for a scar across
his nose and a less humorous cast to his features, turned to his leader. “This one's followed Tupan and
the others, first to the base camp, then, even after Tupan turned him away and flew off, here to where we
all agreed to meet! Told him thrice to clear off, but the human just won't see good sense! Thought maybe
he'd see clearer if I gave him a higher point from which to think about things!”

“Spellcasters . . .” the flight leader muttered. “You've my lasting sympathy, my elven lady!”

 “Tell your companion to put him down, or I shall be forced to show him the superiority of a good elven
sword over his hammer.”

 Falstad turned, blinking. He stared at the ranger as if seeing her for the first time. His gaze briefly shifted
to the sleek, gleaming blade, then back to the narrowed, determined eyes.

“You'd do that, wouldn't you? You'd defend this creature from those who've been the good friends of
your people since before these humans even existed!”

 “She has no need to defend me,” came Rhonin's voice. The dangling mage seemed more annoyed by his
predicament than rightfully fearful. Perhaps he did not realize that Molok could easily break his back in
two. “Thus far, I've held my temper in check, but—”

 Anything he said from this point on would only ensure that a struggle would develop. Vereesa moved
swiftly, cutting off Rhonin with a wave of her hand and setting herself between Falstad and Molok. “This
is utterly reprehensible! The Horde has not even been completely destroyed, and already we are at each
other's throat. Is this how allies are to act? Have your warrior release him, Falstad, and we shall see if we
cannot resolve this with reason, not fury.”

“'Tis only a spellcaster . . .” the lead gryphon rider muttered, but he nonetheless nodded, signaling
Molok to release Rhonin.

With some reluctance, the other dwarf did just that. Rhonin straightened his robe and pushed his hair
back in place, his expression guarded. Vereesa prayed that he would maintain his calm.

“What happened here?” she demanded of him.

 “I came to them with a simple proposal, that was all. That they chose to react the way they did shows
their barbaric—”

“He wanted us to fly him to Khaz Modan!” snapped Molok.

 “The gryphon-riders?” Vereesa could not help but admire Rhonin's audacity, if not his recklessness. Fly
across the sea on the back of one of the beasts—and not even as the principal rider, but someone forced
to hold on to the dwarf in control? Truly Rhonin's mission had to be of more importance than he had let
on for the wizard to attempt to convince Molok and the others to do this! Small wonder they thought him
mad.

“I thought them capable and daring enough . . . but evidently I was wrong about that.”

 Falstad took umbrage. “If there's a hint at all in your words that we're cowards, human, I'll do to you
what I kept Molok from doing! There's no more bold people, no mightier warriors, than the dwarves of
the Aerie Peaks! 'Tisn't that we fear the orcs or dragons of Grim Batol; 'tis more that we care not to
suffer the touch of your kind any more than necessary!”

 Vereesa expected fury from her charge, but Rhonin only pursed his lips, as if he had expected Falstad's
response to be so. Thinking of her own past thoughts and comments concerning wizards, the ranger
realized that Rhonin must have lived most his life with such condemnations.

“I am on a mission for Lordaeron,” the mage replied. “That's all that should matter . . . but I see it
doesn't.” He turned his back on the dwarves and started off.

 Sword still gripped tight, Vereesa came to a swift and desperate decision, born from her suspicions
concerning Rhonin's so-called observation mission. “Wait, mage!” He paused, no doubt somewhat
surprised by her abrupt call. The ranger, however, did not speak to him, but rather faced the lead
gryphon-rider again. “Falstad, is there no hope at all that you might take us as close as possible to Grim
Batol? If not, then Rhonin and I are surely defeated!”

The dwarf 's expression grew troubled. “I thought the wizard was traveling alone.”

 She gave him a knowing look, hoping that Rhonin, who watched her carefully, would not misunderstand.
“And what would his chances be the first time he faced a strong orc ax? He might handle one or two with
his spells, but if they came close, he would need a good sword arm.”

 Falstad watched her brandish the blade, the troubled look fading. “Aye, and a good arm it is, with or
without the sword!” The dwarf glanced at Rhonin, then his men. He tugged on his lengthy beard, his gaze
returning to Vereesa. “For him, I'd do very little, but for you—and the Lordaeron Alliance, of
course—I'd be more than willing. Molok!”

“Falstad! You can't be serious—”

 The lead dwarf went to his friend's side, putting a companionable arm around the shoulder of a dismayed
Molok. “'Tis for the good of the war, brother! Think of the daring you can boast about! We may even
slay a dragon or two along the way to add to our glorious annals, eh?”

Only slightly mollified, Molok finally nodded, muttering, “And I suppose you'll be carrying the lady
behind you?”

“As the elves are our eldest allies and I'm flight leader, aye! My rank demands it, doesn't it, brother?”

This time Molok only nodded. His glowering expression said all else.

 “Wonderful!” roared Falstad. He turned back to Vereesa. “Once more the dwarves of the Aerie Peaks
come to the rescue! This calls for a drink, a flagon of ale or two, eh?”

 The other dwarves, even Molok, lit up at this suggestion. The ranger saw that Rhonin would have
preferred to take his leave at this point, but chose not to say such. Vereesa had given him his transport to
the shores of Khaz Modan, and possibly even near to Grim Batol, and so it behooved him to show his
gratitude to all involved. True, Falstad and his fellows would also have been glad to be rid of Rhonin, but
Vereesa gave silent thanks that she would have someone other than the gryphon-riders with whom to
talk.

“We shall be happy to join you,” she finally replied. “Is that not so, Rhonin?”

“Very much so.” His words came out with all the enthusiasm of one who had just discovered something
odorous in the shoe he had just put on.

 “Excellent!” Falstad's gaze never once shifted to the wizard. To Vereesa he said, “The Sea Boar is still
intact and much appreciative of our fine business in the past! They should be able to scrounge up a few
more casks of ale! Come!”

 He would have insisted on escorting her himself, but the ranger expertly maneuvered away from his
reach. Falstad, perhaps more eager for ale than elves at the moment, seemed not to take any notice of
her slight. Waving to his men, he led them off in the direction of their favored inn.

 Rhonin joined her, but as she attempted to follow after the dwarves, he suddenly pulled her aside, his
expression dark.

“What were you thinking?” the flame-haired mage whispered. “OnlyIam heading to Khaz Modan!”

“And you would never have the chance to get there if I had not mentioned my going with you. You saw
how the dwarves reacted earlier.”

“You don't know what you're trying to get yourself into, Vereesa!”

She pushed her face within scant inches of his own, daring him. “And what is it? More than simply
observation of Grim Batol. You plan something, do you not?”
 Rhonin almost seemed ready to answer her, but at that moment another figure called out. They both
looked back to see Duncan Senturus coming toward them.

 Somthing struck the elf. She had not thought of the paladin when she had been trying to convince Falstad
to carry Rhonin and her across the sea. Knowing the knight as she already did, Vereesa had the horrible
feeling that he would insist on going with them, too.

 That thought had not likely occurred yet to the wizard, whose fury still centered around the ranger.
“We'll talk of this when we've more privacy, Vereesa, but know this already—when we reach the shores
of Khaz Modan, I andonlyI will continue on! You'll be returning with our good friend Falstad . . . and if
you think of going any farther—”

His eyes flared. Literally flared. Even the stalwart elf could not help but lean back in astonishment.

“—I'll send you back here myself!”




EIGHT



They were closing in on Grim Batol.

 Nekros had known this day would come. Since the catastrophic defeat of Doomhammer and the bulk of
the Horde, he had begun counting the days until the triumphant humans and their allies would come
marching toward what remained of the orcs' domain in Khaz Modan. True, the Lordaeron Alliance had
had to fight tooth and nail every inch of the way, but they had finally made it. Nekros could almost
envision the armies amassing on the borders.

 But before those armies struck, they hoped to weaken the orcs much further. If he could trust the word
of Kryll, who had no reason to lie this time, then a plot was afoot to either release or destroy the
Dragonqueen. Exactly how many had been sent, the goblin had not been able to say, but Nekros
envisioned an operation as significant as this, combined with reports of increased military activity to the
northwest, to require at least a regiment of handpicked knights and rangers. There would also certainly
be wizards, powerful ones.

 The orc hefted his talisman. Not even theDemon Soulwould enable him to defend the lair sufficiently, and
he could expect no help from his chieftain at this point. Zuluhed had his followers preparing for the
expected onslaught to the north. A few lesser acolytes watched the southern and western borders, but
Nekros had as much faith in them as he did the mental stability of Kryll. No, as usual, everything hinged
on the maimed orc himself and the decisions he made.

He hobbled through the stone passage until he came to where the dragon-riders berthed. Few remained
of the veterans, but one Nekros trusted well still rode at the forefront of every battle.

Most of the massive warriors were huddled around the central table in the room, the place where they
discussed battle, ate, drank, and played the bones. By the rattling coming from within the gathered
throng, someone had a good game going on even now. The riders would not appreciate his interruption,
but Nekros had no other choice.

“Torgus! Where's Torgus?”

 Some of the warriors looked his way, angry grunts warning him that his intrusion had better be of some
import. The peg-legged orc bared his teeth, his heavy brow furrowing. Despite his loss of limb, he had
been chosen leader here and no one, not even dragon-riders, would treat him as less.

“Well? One of you lot say something, or I'll start feeding body parts to the Dragonqueen!”

 “Here, Nekros . . .” A great form emerged from within the group, rising until it stood a head taller than
any of the other orcs. A countenance ugly even by the standards of his own race glared back at Nekros.
One tusk had been broken off and scars graced both sides of the squat, ursine face. Shoulders half again
as wide as that of the elder warrior connected to muscular arms as thick as Nekros's one good leg. “I'm
here . . .”

 Torgus moved toward his superior, the other riders making a quick, respectful retreat from his path.
Torgus walked with all the bristling confidence of an orc champion, and with every right, for under his
guidance his dragon had wreaked more havoc, sent to death more gryphon-riders, and caused more
routing of human forces than any of his brethren. Markers and medallions from Doomhammer and
Blackhand, not to mention various clan leaders such as Zuluhed, dangled from the ax harness around his
chest.

“What do you want, old one? Another seven and I'd have cleaned out everyone! This better be good!”

 “It's what you've been trained for!” Nekros snapped, determined not to be humiliated by even this one.
“Unless you only fight the battles of wagering now?”

 Some of the other riders muttered, but Torgus looked intrigued. “A special mission? Something better
than scorching a few worthless human peasants?”

“Something maybe including soldiers and a wizard or two! Is that more your game?”

Brutish red orbs narrowed. “Tell me more, old one. . . .”


Rhonin had his transport to Khaz Modan. The thought should have pleased him much, but the cost that
transport demanded seemed far too high to the wizard. Bad enough that he had to deal with the dwarves,
who clearly disliked him as much as he did them, but Vereesa's claim that she needed to come along,
too—granted, a necessary subterfuge in order to actually gain Falstad's permission—had turned his plans
upside down. It had been paramount that he journey to Grim Batol alone— no useless comrades, no risk
of a second catastrophe.

No more deaths.

 And, as if to make matters worse, he had just discovered that Lord Duncan Senturus had somehow
convinced the unconvincible Falstad to take the paladin along as well.

“This is insanity!” Rhonin repeated, not for the first time. “There's no need for anyone else!”
 Yet, even now, even as the gryphon-riders prepared to fly them to the other side of the sea, no one
listened. No one cared to hear his words. He even suspected that, if he protested much more, Rhonin
might actually find himself the only onenotgoing, as nonsensical as that seemed. The way Falstad had
been looking at him of late . . .

 Duncan had met with his men, giving Roland command and passing on his orders. The bearded knight
turned over to his younger second what seemed a medallion or something similar. Rhonin almost thought
nothing of it—the Knights of the Silver Hand seeming to have a thousand different rites for every minor
occasion—but Vereesa, who had come up to his side, chose then to whisper, “Duncan has handed
Roland the seal of his command. If something happens to the elder paladin, Roland will permanently
ascend to his place in the rolls. The Knights of the Silver Hand take no chances.”

 He turned to ask her a question, but she had already stepped away again. Her mood had been much
more formal since his whispered threat to her. Rhonin did not want to be forced to do something to make
the ranger return, but he also did not want anything to befall her because of his mission. He even did not
want anything dire to happen to Duncan Senturus, although likely the paladin had far more chance of
surviving in the interior of Khaz Modan than Rhonin himself.

 “'Tis time for flight!” Falstad shouted. “The sun's already up and even old ones have risen and begun
their day's chores! Are we all ready at last?”

“I am prepared,” Duncan replied with practiced solemnity.

 “So am I,” the anxious spellcaster quickly answered after, not wanting anyone to think that he might be
the reason for any delay. Had he had his way, he and one of the riders would have departed the night
before, but Falstad had insisted that the animals needed their full night's rest after the activities of the day .
. . and what Falstad said was law among the dwarves.

“Then let us mount!” The jovial elf smiled at Vereesa, then extended his hand. “My elven lady?”

Smiling, she joined him by his gryphon. Rhonin fought to maintain an expression of indifference. He
would have rather she had ridden with any of the dwarves other than Falstad, but to comment so would
only make him look like an absolute fool. Besides, what did it matter to him with whom the ranger rode?

“Hurry up, wizard!” grumbled Molok. “I'd just as soon get this journey over with!”

 Clad more lightly, Duncan mounted behind one of the remaining riders. As a fellow warrior, the dwarves
respected, if not liked the paladin. They knew the prowess of the holy order in battle, which had
apparently been why it had been easier for Lord Senturus to convince them of the necessity of bringing
him along.

“Hold tight!” Molok commanded Rhonin. “Or you may end up as fish bait along the way!”

 With that, the dwarf urged the gryphon forward . . . and into the air. The wizard held on as best he
could, the unnatural sensation of feeling his heart jump into his throat giving him no assurance as to the
safety of the journey. Rhonin had never ridden a gryphon, and as the vast wings of the animal beat up and
down, up and down, he decided quickly that, should he survive, he would never do so again. With each
heavy flap of the part avian, part leonine creature's wings, the wizard's stomach went up and down with
it. Had there beenanyother way, Rhonin would have eagerly chosen it.
 He had to admit, though, that the creatures flew with incredible swiftness. In minutes, the group had
flown out of sight of not only Hasic, but the entire coast. Surely even dragons could not match their
speed, although the race would have been close. Rhonin recalled how three of the smaller beasts had
darted around the head of the red leviathan. A dangerous feat, even for the gryphons, and likely capable
by few other animals alive.

 Below, the sea shifted violently, waves rising threateningly high, then sinking so very, very low. The wind
tore at Rhonin's face, wet spray forcing him to pull the hood of his robe tight in order to at least partially
protect himself. Molok seemed unaffected by the harsh elements and, in fact, appeared to revel in them.

“How—how long do you think before we reach Khaz Modan?”

The dwarf shrugged. “Several hours, human! Couldn't say better than that!”

 Keeping his darkening thoughts to himself, the wizard huddled closer and tried to ignore the journey as
much as possible. The thought of so much water underneath him bothered Rhonin more than he had
thought. Between Hasic and the shores of Khaz Modan only the ravaged island kingdom of Tol Barad
brought any change to the endless waves, and Falstad had previously indicated that the party would not
be landing there. Overwhelmed early in the war by the orcs, no life more complex than a few hardy
weeds and insects had survived the Horde's bloody victory. An aura of death seemed to radiate from the
island, one so intense that even the wizard did not argue with the dwarf 's decision.

 On and on they flew. Rhonin dared an occasional glimpse at his companions. Duncan, of course, faced
the elements with a typically stalwart pose, evidently oblivious to the moisture splattering his bearded
countenance. Vereesa, at least, showed some effects of having to travel in this insane manner. Like the
mage, she kept her head low for the most part, her lengthy silver hair tucked under the hood of her travel
cloak. She leaned close to Falstad, who seemed, to Rhonin, to be enjoying her discomfort.

 His stomach eventually settled to something near tolerable. Rhonin peered at the sun, calculated that they
had now been in the air some five hours or more. At the rate of speed with which the gryphon traveled
the skies, surely they had to be past the midway point. He finally broke the silence between Molok and
himself, asking if this would be so.

“Midway?” The dwarf laughed. “Two more hours and I think we'll see the crags of western Khaz
Modan in the distance! Midway? Ha!”

 The news more than his companion's sudden good humor made Rhonin smile. He had survived nearly
three-fourths of the journey already. Just a little over a couple of hours and his feet would at last be
planted firmly on the ground again. For once, he had made progress without some dire calamity to slow
him down.

“Do you know a place to land once we get there?”

“Plenty of places, wizard! Have no fear! We'll be rid of you soon enough! Just hope that it doesn't pour
before we get to them!”

 Peering up, Rhonin inspected the clouds that had formed over the period of the last half-hour. Possible
rain clouds, but he suspected that, if so, they would hold off more than long enough for the party to reach
their destination. All he need worry about now was how best to make his way to Grim Batol once the
others returned to Lordaeron.
 Rhonin well knew how audacious his plan might look to the rest should they discover the truth. Again he
thought of the ghosts that haunted him, the specters of the past. They were his true companions on this
mad quest, the furies that drove him on. They would watch him succeed or die trying.

 Die trying. Not for the first time since the deaths of his previous companions did he wonder if perhaps
that would be the best conclusion to all of this. Perhaps then Rhonin would truly redeem himself in his
own eyes, much less the ghosts of his imagination.

But first he had to reach Grim Batol.

“Look there, wizard!”

 He started, not realizing that, at some point, he had drifted off. Rhonin stared past Molok's shoulder in
the direction the dwarf now pointed. At first the wizard could see nothing, the ocean mists still splattering
his eyes. After clearing his gaze, however, he saw two dark specks on the horizon. Two stationary
specks. “Is that land?”

“Aye, wizard! The first signs of Khaz Modan!”

 So near! New life and enthusiasm arose within Rhonin as he realized that he had managed to sleep
through the remainder of the flight. Khaz Modan! No matter how dangerous the trek from here on, he
had at least made it this far. At the rate at which the gryphons soared, it would only be a short time
before they touched down on—

 Two new specks caught his attention, two specks in the sky thatmoved,growing larger and larger, as if
they closed in on the party.

“What are those? What's coming toward us?”

Molok leaned forward, squinting. “By the jagged ice cliffs of Northeron! Dragons! Two of them!”

Dragons . . .

“Red?”

 “Does the color of the sky matter, wizard? A dragon is a dragon and, by my beard, they're coming fast
for us!”

 Glancing in the direction of the other gryphon-riders, Rhonin saw that Falstad and the rest had also
spotted the dragons. The dwarves immediately began adjusting their formation, spreading out so as to
present smaller, more difficult targets. The wizard noted Falstad steering more to the rear, likely due to
the fact that Vereesa rode with him. On the other hand, the gryphon upon which Duncan Senturus
traveled raced ahead, nearly outpacing the rest of the group.

 The dragons, too, moved with strategy in mind. The larger of the pair rose to a higher altitude, then
broke away from its companion. Rhonin instantly recognized that the two leviathans intended to force the
gryphons into an area between them, where they could better pick off the smaller creatures and their
riders.

 Hulking forms atop each dragon coalesced into two of the largest, most brutish orcs the wary mage had
ever seen. The one atop the greater behemoth looked to be the leader. He waved his ax toward the
other orc, whose beast instantly veered farther to the opposite direction.

“Well-skilled riders, these!” shouted Molok with much too much eagerness. “The one on the right most
of all! This will be a glorious battle!”

And one in which Rhonin might very well lose his life, just as it seemed he might have a chance to go on
with his mission. “We can't fight them! I need to get to the shore!”

He heard Molok grunt in frustration. “My place is in the battle, wizard!”

“My mission must come first!”

 For a moment he thought that the dwarf might actually throw him off their mount. Then, with much
reluctance, Molok nodded his head, calling, “I'll do what I can, wizard! If an opening presents itself, we'll
try for the shore! I'll drop you off and that'll be the end of it between us!”

“Agreed!”

They spoke no more, for at that point, the two opposing forces reached one another.

 The swifter, much more agile gryphons darted about the dragons, quickly frustrating the lesser one.
However, burdened as they were by extra weight, the animals ridden by Rhonin and the others could not
maneuver quite so fast as usual. A massive paw with razor talons nearly swiped Falstad and Vereesa,
and a wing barely missed clipping Duncan and the dwarf with him. The paladin and his companion
continued to fly much too close, as if they sought to take on the one dragon in some bizarre sort of
hand-to-hand combat.

With some effort, Molok removed his stormhammer, waving it about and shouting like someone who
had just had his hair set on fire. Rhonin hoped that the dwarf would not forget his promise in the heat of
battle.

 The second dragon came down, unfortunately choosing Falstad and Vereesa for his main target. Falstad
urged his gryphon on, but the wings could not beat fast enough with the elf in tow. The huge orc urged his
reptilian partner on with murderous cries and mad swings of his monstrous battle-ax.

Rhonin gritted his teeth. He could not just let them perish, especially the ranger.

“Molok! Go after that larger one! We've got to help them!”

Eager as he was to obey, the scarred dwarf recalled Rhonin's earlier demand. “What about your
precious mission?”

“Just go!”

 A huge grin spread over Molok's visage. He gave a yell that sent every nerve in the mage's body into
shock, then steered the gryphon toward the dragon.

Behind him, Rhonin readied a spell. They had only moments before the crimson leviathan would reach
Vereesa. . . .

Falstad brought his mount around in a sudden arc that startled the dragon rider. The great behemoth
soared past, unable to match the maneuverability of its smaller rival.

“Hold tight, wizard!”

Molok's gryphon dove almost straight down. Trying not to let base fears overwhelm him, Rhonin went
over the last segment of his spell. Now if he could manage enough breath to cast it—

 The dwarf let out a war cry that brought the attention of the orc. Brow furrowing, the grotesque figure
twisted around so as to meet his new foe.

Stormhammer briefly met battle-ax.

A shower of sparks nearly caused the wizard to lose his grip. The gryphon squawked in surprise and
pain. Molok nearly toppled from his seat.

 Their mount reacted quickest, racing higher into the sky, nearly into the thickening clouds above. Molok
readjusted his seating. “By the Aerie! Did you see that? Few weapons or their wielders can stand against
a stormhammer! This'll be a fascinating match!”

“Let me try something first!”

The dwarf 's expression darkened. “Magic? Where's the honor and courage in that?”

“How can you battle the orc if the dragon won't let you near again? We got lucky once!”

“All right! So long as you don't steal the battle!”

 Rhonin made no promises, mostly because he hoped to do just that. He stared at the dragon, which had
quickly followed them up, muttering the words of power. At the last moment, the wizard glanced at the
clouds above.

A single bolt of lightning shot down, striking at the pursuing giant.

 It hit the dragon full on, but the effects were not what Rhonin had hoped. The creature's entire form
shimmered from wing tip to wing tip and the beast let out a furious shriek, but the beast did not plummet
from the heavens. In fact, even the orc, who no doubt suffered great, did nothing more than slump
forward momentarily in his seat.

 Disappointed, the wizard had to console himself that at least he had stunned the massive creature. It also
occurred to him that now neither he nor Vereesa were in any immediate danger. The dragon struggled
just to keep itself aloft.

Rhonin put a hand on Molok's shoulder. “To the shore! Quickly now!”

“Are you daft, wizard? What about the battle that you just told me to—”

“Now!”

 More likely because he wanted to be rid of his exasperating cargo than because he believed in any
authority on the mage's part, Molok reluctantly steered his gryphon away again.
Searching around, the anxious spellcaster sought any sign of Vereesa. Neither she nor Falstad were to
be found. Rhonin thought of countermanding his order again, but he knew hehadto reach Khaz Modan.
Surely the dwarves could handle this pair of monsters. . . .

Surely they could.

 Molok's gryphon had already begun to pull them away from their former adversary. Rhonin again
contemplated sending them back.

A vast shadow covered them.

Both man and dwarf looked up in astonishment and consternation.

The second dragon had come up on them while they had been preoccupied.

 The gryphon tried to dive out of reach. The brave beast almost made it, but talons ripped through the
right wing. The leonine beast roared out its agony and tried desperately to stay aloft. Rhonin looked up to
see the maw of the dragon opening. The gargantuan horror intended to swallow them whole.

From behind the dragon soared a second gryphon, Duncan and his dwarf companion. The paladin had
positioned himself in an awkward manner and seemed to be trying to direct the dwarf to do something.
Rhonin had no idea what the knight intended, only that the dragon would be upon the wizard and Molok
before he could cast a suitable spell.

Duncan Senturus leapt.

 “Gods and demons!” Molok shouted, for once even the wild dwarf astounded by the courage and
insanity of another being.

 Only belatedly did Rhonin understand what the paladin sought to do. In a move that would have left
anyone else falling to their doom, the skilled knight landed with astonishing accuracy on the neck of the
dragon. He clutched the thick neck and adjusted his position even as both the beast and its orc handler
finally registered exactly what had happened.

 The orc raised his ax and tried to catch Lord Senturus in the back, just barely missing. Duncan took one
look at him, then seemed to forget his barbaric opponent from there on. Instead he inched himself
forward, avoiding the awkward attempts by the dragon to snap at him.

“He must be mad!” Rhonin shouted.

“No, wizard—he's awarrior.”

 Rhonin did not understand the dwarf 's subdued, respectful tone until he saw Duncan, legs and one arm
wrapped tight around the reptilian neck, draw his gleaming blade. Behind the paladin, the orc slowly
crawled forward, a murderous red glare in his eyes.

“We've got to do something! Get me nearer!” Rhonin demanded.

“Too late, human! There are some epic songs meant to be. . . .”

The dragon did not try to shake Duncan free, no doubt in order to avoid doing the same to its handler.
The orc moved with more assurance than the knight, quickly coming within range of a strike.

Duncan sat nearly at the back of the beast's head. He raised his long sword up, clearly intending to
plunge it in at the base, where the spine met the skull.

The orc swung first.

 The ax bit into Lord Senturus's back, cutting through the thinner chain mail the man had chosen for the
journey. Duncan did not cry out, but he fell forward, nearly losing his sword. Only at the last did he retain
his hold. The knight managed to press the point against the spot intended, but his strength clearly began
to give out.

The orc raised his ax again.

Rhonin cast the first spell to come to mind.

 A flash of light as intense as the sun burst before the eyes of the orc. With a startled cry, he fell back,
losing both his grip on his weapon and his seating. The desperate warrior fumbled for some sort of hold,
failed, and dropped over the side of the dragon's neck, screaming.

The wizard immediately turned his worried gaze back to the paladin—who stared back at him with what
Rhonin almost thought a mixture of gratitude and respect. His back a spreading stain of deep red,
Duncan yet managed to straighten, lifting his sword hilt up as high as he could.

The dragon, realizing at last that he had no reason to remain still any longer, began to dip.

Lord Duncan Senturus rammed the blade deep into the soft area between the neck and skull, burying his
blade halfway into the leviathan.

 The red beast twitched uncontrollably. Ichor shot forth from the wound, so hot it scalded the paladin. He
slipped back, lost hold.

“To him, damn it!” Rhonin demanded of Molok. “To him!”

 The dwarf obeyed, but Rhonin knew they would never reach Duncan in time. From across the way he
saw another gryphon soar near. Falstad and Vereesa. Even with so much weight already upon his mount,
the lead rider hoped to somehow rescue the paladin.

 For a moment, it seemed as if they would. Falstad's gryphon neared the teetering warrior. Duncan
looked up, first at Rhonin, then at Falstad and Vereesa.

He shook his head . . . and slumped forward, rolling off the shrieking dragon.

 “No!”Rhonin stretched a hand toward the distant figure. He knew that Lord Senturus had already died,
that only a corpse had fallen, but the sight stirred up all the misgivings and failures of the wizard's last
mission. His fear had come to pass; now he had already lost one of those with him, even if Duncan had
invited himself along.

“Look out!”

Molok's sudden warning stirred him from his reverie. He looked up to see the dragon, still aloft despite
its death throes, spinning wildly about. The gargantuan wings fluttered everywhere, moving almost at
random. Falstad barely got his own beast out of range of one, and too late Rhonin realized that this time
he and Molok would not escape a blow by the other.

“Pull up, you blasted beast!” roared Molok. “Pull—”

The wing struck them full force, ripping the mage from his seat. He heard the dwarf scream and the
gryphon squawk. Stunned, Rhonin barely realized that, for a moment at least, he flew higher into the sky.
Then, gravity took over and the half-conscious wizard began to descend . . . rapidly.

 He needed to cast a spell.Somespell. Try as he might, however, Rhonin could not concentrate enough to
even recall the first words. A part of him knew that this time he would surely die.

Darkness overwhelmed him, but an unnatural darkness. Rhonin wondered if perhaps he was blacking
out. However, from the darkness suddenly came a booming voice, one that struck a distant chord in his
memory.

“I have you again, little one! Never fear, never fear!”

A reptilian paw so great that Rhonin did not even fill the palm enveloped the wizard.




NINE



Duncan!”

 “'Tis too late, my elven lady!” Falstad called. “Your man's already dead—but what a glorious tale to
leave behind!”

 Vereesa cared nothing about glorious tales nor the incorrect assumption that she had admired Lord
Senturus more than she actually did. All that mattered to her was that a brave man whom she had come
to know all too briefly had perished. True, like Falstad, the elf had immediately realized that it had only
been Duncan's shell that had fallen earthward, but the horror of his tragic death had still struck her deep.

 Yet, Vereesa took some comfort in the knowledge that Duncan had managed the near-impossible. The
dragon had been struck a mortal blow, one that caused it to continue to thrash about madly. The dying
leviathan sought to pull the blade from the base of its skull, but its efforts grew weaker and weaker. It
was only a matter of time before the giant joined its slayer in the depths of the sea.

 However, even in dying the dragon remained a threat. A wing nearly caught the dwarf and her. Falstad
had the gryphon dive in order to avoid the wild movements of the behemoth. Vereesa held on for dear
life, no longer able to concern herself with Duncan's fate.

As for the second dragon, it, too, still menaced the gryphons. Falstad brought his mount up again, rising
above the other monster in order to prevent them being seized by the horrific talons. Another rider
narrowly escaped the snapping jaws.

 They could no longer remain here. The orc guiding this second beast clearly had vast experience in aerial
combat with gryphons. Sooner or later his mount would catch one of the dwarves. Vereesa wanted no
more deaths. “Falstad! We have to get away!”

“For you I would do that, my elven lady, but the scaly beast and its handler seem to have other ideas!”

True enough, the dragon now appeared fixated on Vereesa and her companion, most likely at the orc's
behest. Perhaps he had noted the second rider, and possibly thought her of some importance. In fact, the
very presence of the two crimson behemoths brought many questions to the ranger's mind—specifically
whether or not they had come because of Rhonin's mission. If so, then he more than she should have
been the likely target. . . .

 And where was Rhonin? As Falstad urged the gryphon to greater speed and the dragon closed behind
them, the elf quickly glanced around, but again found no sign of him. Disturbed, she took a second look.
Not only did Vereesa not see the mage, but she could not even locate the gryphon he had been riding.

“Falstad! I do not see Rhonin—”

“A worry for another time! 'Tis more important that you hold tight!”

She obeyed . . . and just in time. Suddenly the gryphon arced at such a severe angle that, had Vereesa
hesitated, she might have been tossed off.

 Talons slashed at the spot she and the dwarf had most recently occupied. The dragon roared its
frustration and banked.

“Prepare for battle, my elven lady! It appears we are not to have any other choice!”

 As he unslung his stormhammer, Vereesa cursed again the loss of her bow. True, she had a sword, but
unlike Duncan, the ranger could not yet bring herself to commit such a sacrifice. Besides, she still needed
to find out what had happened to Rhonin, who remained her first priority.

 The orc had his own long battle-ax out, and now waved it around his head, shouting some barbaric war
cry. Falstad responded with a guttural cry of his own, clearly eager for combat despite his earlier concern
for Vereesa. With nothing left for her to do, the ranger held on, hoping that the dwarf 's aim would be
true.

 A titanic form the color of night dropped in among the combatants, falling upon the crimson dragon and
sending both beast and handler into a state of confusion.

“What in the name of—” was all Falstad managed.

The elf found herself speechless.

 Black wings twice the span of those of the red filled Vereesa's vision, metallic glints from those wings
almost blinding her. A tremendous roar shook the sky like thunder, sending the gryphons scattering.

A dragon of immense proportions snapped at the smaller red one. Dark, narrow orbs eyed the lesser
leviathan with contempt. The orc's dragon roared back, but clearly it did not find this new foe to its liking.

“We may be done for now, my elven lady! 'Tis none other than the dark one himself!”

The black goliath spread his wings wide, and the sound that escaped his mighty jaws reminded Vereesa
of harsh, mocking laughter. Again she caught sight of metal—platesof metal—spread across much of the
newcomer's vast body. The natural armor of a dragon proved difficult enough to pierce; what metal
would a creature such as this wear to protect its hard scales?

The answer came quick.Adamantium.Only it truly outshone the nearly impenetrable scale . . . and only
one great leviathan had ever put himself through such agony in the name of power and ego.

“Deathwing . . .”she whispered.“Deathwing . . .”

 Among the elves, it had been said long ago that there were five great dragons, five leviathans who
represented arcane and natural forces. Some claimed that Alexstrasza the red represented the essence of
life itself. Of the others, little was known, for even before the coming of humans the dragons had lived
sheltered, hermitic existences. The elves had felt their influence, had even dealt with them on various
occasions, but never had the elder creatures truly revealed their secrets.

 Yet, among the dragons, therehadbeen one who had made himself known to all, who ever reminded the
world that, before all other races,hiskind had ruled. Although originally bearing another name, he himself
had long ago chosenDeathwingas his title, the better to show his contempt and intentions for the lesser
creatures around him. Even the elders of Vereesa's race could not claim to know what drove the ebony
giant, but throughout the years he had done what he could to destroy the world built by the elves,
dwarves, and humans.

 The elves had another name for him, spoken only in whispers and only in the elder tongue almost
forgotten.Xaxas.A short title with many meanings, all dire. Chaos. Fury. The embodiment of elemental
rage, such as found in erupting volcanoes or shattering earthquakes. If Alexstrasza represented the
elements of life that bound the world together, then Deathwing exemplified the destructive forces that
constantly sought to rip it apart.

 Yet now he hovered before them, attempting, it seemed, to defend them from one of his own kind. Of
course, Deathwing likely did not see it that way. This was a foe with scale of crimson, the color of his
greatest rival. Deathwing hated dragons of all other colors and did his best to see that each he confronted
perished, but those bearing the mantle of Alexstrasza the ebony behemoth despised most.

“'Tis an impossible sight, eh?” murmured Falstad, for once subdued. “And yet I thought the foul monster
dead!”

So had the ranger. The Kirin Tor had combined the might of the best of their human wizards with those
of their elven counterparts to finally, so they had claimed, bring an end to the threat of the black fury.
Even the metallic plates that Deathwing had long ago convinced the mad goblins to literally weld to his
body had not protected him from those sorcerous strikes. He had fallen, fallen . . .

But now, apparently, flew triumphant again.

The war against the orcs had suddenly become a very minute thing. What were all the remnants of the
Horde in Khaz Modan compared to this single, sinister giant?
 The lesser dragon, also evidently a male, snapped angrily at Deathwing. The snout came near enough
that the black beast could have swatted it with his left forepaw, but for some reason Deathwing held that
paw closed and near to his body. Instead, he whipped his tail at his adversary, sending the red reeling
back. As the black dragon moved, under the shifting metal plates what seemed to be a vast series of
veins filled with molten fire radiated along both his throat and torso, flaring with each roar from the titan.
Legend had it that to touch those veins of fire was to risk truly being burned. Some said this was due to
an acidic secretion by the dragon, but other tales took it as literal flame.

Either way, it meant death.

“The orc is either brave beyond compare, a fool, or without any control over his beast!” Falstad shook
his head. “Even I would not remain in such a fray if it could be helped!”

 The other gryphons neared. Tearing her gaze away from the posturing dragons, Vereesa inspected the
newcomers, but saw no sign of either Molok or Rhonin. In fact, their little group now numbered only her
and four dwarves.

“Where is the wizard?” she called to the others. “Where is he?”

“Molok is dead,” one of them proclaimed to Falstad. “His mount lies drifting in the sea!”

 For their small stature, dwarves had incredibly muscular, dense bodies and so did not float well. Falstad
and the others chose to take the discovery of the dead gryphon as proof enough of the warrior's fate.

 But Rhonin was human and, therefore, whether dead or alive, stood a better chance of floating for a
time. Vereesa seized on that slight hope. “And the wizard? Did you see the wizard?”

“I think 'tis obvious, my elven lady,” Falstad returned, glancing back at her.

 She clamped her mouth shut, knowing he spoke truth. At least with the incident at the keep, there had
been enough question. Here, however, matters seemed final. Even Rhonin's magic certainly could not
have saved him up here and from this height, striking the water below would have been like striking solid
rock. . . .

Unable to keep from glancing down, Vereesa made out the half-sunken form of the other red dragon.
Death must have come to Rhonin and Molok from one of the creature's mad turns during its final fit. She
only hoped the end had been swift for both.

“What should we do, Falstad?” called out one of the other dwarves.

 He rubbed his chin. “Deathwing is no warrior's friend! He'll no doubt come after us after he deals with
this lesser beast! Facing him is no proper battle! Would take a hundred stormhammers just to dent his
hide! Best if we return and let others know what we've seen!”

 The other dwarves looked to be in agreement with this, but Vereesa found she could not give up so
readily despite the obvious. “Falstad! Rhonin is a wizard! He is likely dead, but if he still lives—if he still
floats down there—he could still need our help!”

 “You're daft, if you'll pardon me for saying so, my elven lady! No one could've survived a fall like that,
even a wizard!”
“Please! Just one sweep of the surface—and then we can depart!” Certainly if they found nothing then,
her duty to the mage and his never-to-be-fulfilled mission would be at an end. That her sense of guilt
would linger much, much longer was something the ranger could do nothing about.

 Falstad frowned. His warriors looked at him as if he would have to be mad to spend any more time in
the vicinity of Deathwing.

“Very well!” he growled. “But only for you, only for you!” To the others, Falstad commanded, “Go on
back already without us! We should be behind you before long, but if for some reason we don't return,
make certain that someone knows of the dark one's reappearance! Go!”

 As the other dwarves urged their own mounts west, Falstad had his animal dive. However, as they
swiftly headed down to the sea, a pair of savage roars made both elf and dwarf look up in concern.

 Deathwing and the red bellowed at one another over and over, each cry louder and harsher than the
previous. Both beasts had their talons out and their tails whipping about in a frenzy. Deathwing's crimson
streaks gave him a frightening and almost supernatural appearance, as if he were one of the demons of
legend.

“The posturing's over,” Vereesa's companion explained. “They're about to fight! Wonder what the orc
must be thinking?”

 Vereesa had no concern for the orc. She again focused her concentration toward the search for Rhonin.
As the gryphon soared just a few yards over the water, she surveyed the area in vain for the human.
Surely there had to be some trace of him! The desperate ranger could even make out the twisted form of
the dead mount not too far from them. Whether dead or alive, the wizard had to be somewhere
near—unless he had actually managed after all to magick himself away from the danger?

Falstad grunted, clearly having decided that they were wasting their time. “There's nothing here!”

“Just a little longer!”

 Again savage cries drew their attention skyward. The battle had begun in earnest. The red dragon tried
to cut around Deathwing, but the larger beast presented too great an obstacle. The membraned wings
alone acted as walls that the lesser dragon could not get past. He tried flaming one of them, but
Deathwing flapped out of the way, not that the fire would have likely done more than slightly singe him.

 In the process of trying to scorch his opponent, Deathwing's foe left himself open. The ebony giant could
have easily raked the nearest wing of the red beast, but again the left forepaw remained shut and near to
the chest. Instead, he whipped his tail at the other leviathan, sending the crimson dragon scurrying away
again.

Deathwing did not look injured, so why would he hold back?

 “That's it! We search no longer!” Falstad shouted. “Your wizard's at the bottom of the sea, I'm sorry to
say! We've got to leave now before we join him!”

 The elf ignored him at first, watching the black dragon and trying to make sense of his peculiar fighting
technique. Deathwing utilized tail, wings, and other limbs, everything but the left forepaw. Now and then
he moved it enough to reveal its obvious health, but always it returned to the nearness of his body.
“Why?” she murmured. “Why do that?”

Falstad thought that she spoke with him. “Because we gain nothing here but the possibility of death, and
while Falstad never fears death, he prefers it on his own terms, not those of that armored abomination!”

 At that moment, Deathwing, even with one paw incapacitated, caught hold of his adversary. The vast
wings hemmed in the smaller red dragon, and the lengthy tail wrapped around the lower limbs. With his
remaining three paws, the black leviathan tore a series of bloody gaps across the torso of his foe,
including one set near the base of the throat.

“Up, blast you!” Falstad demanded of his flagging gryphon. “You'll have to wait a little longer to rest!
Get us out of here first!”

 As the furred beast pushed skyward as best it could, Vereesa watched as Deathwing cut yet another
deep series of wounds across his counterpart's chest. A tiny rain began underneath the crimson dragon,
the monster's life fluids showering the sea beneath.

With tremendous effort, the lesser beast managed to free himself. Tottering, he pushed off from
Deathwing, then hesitated, as if distracted by something else.

To Vereesa's surprise, the red dragon suddenly turned and flew, in rather haphazard fashion, in the
direction of Khaz Modan.

The battle had not lasted more than a minute, perhaps two, but in that short space of time Deathwing
had nearly slaughtered his foe.

 Curiously, the gargantuan black did not pursue. Instead, he peered at the paw held close to his chest, as
if looking over something within the folded digits.

Something . . . orsomeone?

 What had Rhonin told Duncan and her about his astonishing rescue from the crumbling tower?I don't
know what it was, but it took me up as if I was a toy and whisked me away from the devastation.What
other creature could so easily take a full grown man and carry him off as if he were no more than a toy?
Only the fact that such an astounding act had been unheard of until this time had kept the ranger from
seeing the obvious. A dragon had carried the wizard off to safety!

But . . . Deathwing?

 The black dragon suddenly flew toward Khaz Modan, but not quite in the direction his crimson
counterpart had fled. As he headed away from them, Vereesa noted that he continued to keep the one
palm close, as if doing what he could to protect a precious cargo.

“Falstad! We need to follow him!”

 The dwarf glanced at her as if she had just asked him to ride into the very maw of the behemoth. “I'm
the bravest of warriors, my elven lady, but your suggestion hints at madness!”

“Deathwing has Rhonin! Rhonin is the reason that the dragon did not use his one forepaw!”

“Then clearly the wizard is as good as dead, for what would the dark one want with him other than as a
snack?”

“If that was the case, Deathwing would have eaten him before. No. He clearly has some need of
Rhonin.”

Falstad grimaced. “You ask much! The gryphon's weary and will need to land soon!”

“Please! Just as far as you can! I cannot leave him like this! I have sworn an oath!”

“No oath would take you this far,” the gryphon rider muttered, but he nonetheless steered his mount
back toward Khaz Modan. The animal made noises of protest, but obeyed.

 Vereesa said nothing more, knowing that Falstad had the right of it. Yet, for reasons unclear to her, she
could not even now abandon Rhonin to what seemed an obvious fate.

 Rather than try to fathom her own mind, the ranger pondered the dwindling form of Deathwing. He had
to have Rhonin. It made too much sense in her mind.

But what would Deathwing—who hated all other creatures, who sought the destruction of orc, elf,
dwarf, and human—possibly want with the mage?

 She remembered Duncan Senturus's opinion of wizards, one shared not only by the other members of
the Knights of the Silver Hand, but most other folk as well.A damned soul,Duncan had called him.
Someone who would just as readily turn to evil as good. Someone who might—make apactwith the most
sinister of all creatures?

 Had the paladin spoken greater truth than even he had realized? Could Vereesa now be attempting to
rescue a man who had, in actuality, sold his soul to Deathwing?

“What does he want of you, Rhonin?” she murmured. “What does he want of you?”


Krasus's bones still ached and pain occasionally shot through his system, but he had at least managed to
heal himself sufficiently to return to the troubles at hand. However, he dared not tell the rest of the council
what had occurred, even though the information would have been relevant to their own tasks. For now,
among the Kirin Tor, the knowledge of Deathwing's human guise had to be his and his alone. The
success of Krasus's other plans quite possibly depended on it.

 The dragon sought to be king of Alterac! On the surface, an absurd, impossible notion; but what Krasus
knew of the black dragon indicated that Deathwing had something more complex, more cunning, in mind.
Lord Prestor might be pushing to create peace among the members of the Alliance, but Deathwing
desired only blood and chaos . . . and that meant that this peace created by his ascension to that minor
throne would only be the first step toward formulating even worse disharmony later on. Yes, peace today
would meanwartomorrow.

 If he could not tell the Kirin Tor, there were others to whom Krasus could speak. He had been rejected
by them over and over, but perhaps this time one would listen. Perhaps the wizard's mistake had been
asking their agents to come to him. Perhaps they would listen if he brought the terror to their very
sanctums.

Yes . . . then they might listen.
 Standing in the midst of his dark sanctum, his hood pulled forward to the point where his face completely
vanished within, Krasus uttered the words to take him to one of those whose aid he most sought. The
ill-lit chamber grew hazy, faded. . . .

And suddenly the mage stood in a cavern of ice and snow.

 Krasus gazed around him, overawed by the sight despite previous visits here long, long ago. He knew in
whose domain he now stood, and knew that of all those whose aid he sought this one might take the
greatest umbrage at such a brazen intrusion. Even Deathwing respected the master of this chilling cavern.
Few ever came to this sanctum in the heart of cold, inhospitable Northrend, and fewer still departed from
it alive.

 Great spires that almost appeared to be made of pure crystal hung from the icy ceiling, some twice, even
three times, the height of the wizard. Other, rockier formations jutted up through the thick snow that not
only blanketed much of the cavern floor, but the walls as well. From some inner passage light entered the
chamber, casting glittering ghosts all about. Rainbows danced with each brush of the spires by a slight
wind that somehow had managed to find its way inside from the cold, bleak land above this magical
place.

 Yet, behind the beauty of this winter spectacle lay other, more macabre sights. Within the enchanting
blanket of snow, Krasus made out frozen shapes, even the occasional limb. Many, he knew, belonged to
the few great animals who thrived in the region, while a couple, especially one marked by a hand curled
in grisly death, revealed the fate of those who had dared to trespass.

 More unnerving evidence of the finality of any intruder's fate could even be found in the wondrous ice
formations, for in several dangled the frozen corpses of past uninvited visitors. Krasus marked among the
most common a number of ice trolls—massive, barbaric creatures of pale skin and more than twice the
girth of their southern counterparts. Death had not come kind to them, each bearing expressions of
agony.

 Farther on, the mage noted two of the ferocious beastmen known as wendigos. They, too, had been
frozen in death, but where the trolls had revealed their terror at their horrible deaths, the wendigos wore
masks of outrage, as if neither could believe they had come to such straits.

 Krasus walked through the icy chamber, peering at others in the macabre collection. He discovered an
elf and two orcs that had been added since his last sojourn here, signs that the war had spread even to
this lonely abode. One of the orcs looked as if he had been frozen without ever having realized what fate
had befallen him.

 Beyond the orcs Krasus discovered one corpse that startled even him. Upon first glance, it seemed but a
giant serpent, a peculiar enough monster to find in such a frozen hell, but the coiled body suddenly altered
at the top, shifting from a cylindrical form to a nearly human torso—albeit a human torso covered with a
smattering of scales. Two broad arms reached out as if trying to invite the wizard to join the creature's
grisly doom.

 A face seemingly elven but with a flatter nose, a slit of a mouth, and teeth as sharp as a dragon greeted
the newcomer. Shadowy eyes with no pupils glared in outrage. In the dark and with the bottom half of his
form hidden, this being would have passed for either elf or man, but Krasus knew him for what he
was—or rather, had been. The name began to form on the wizard's tongue unbidden, as if the sinister, icy
victim before him somehow drew it forth.
“Na—” Krasus started.

 “You are nothing, nothing, nothing, if not audaciousss,” interjected a whispering voice that seemed to
trail on the very wind.

 The faceless wizard turned to see a bit of the ice on one wall pull away—and transform into something
nearly akin to a man. Yet the legs were too thin, bent at too awkward an angle, and the body resembled
more that of an insect. The head, too, had only a cursory resemblance to that of a human, for although
there were eyes, nose, and mouth, they looked as if some artisan had started on a snow sculpture, then
abandoned the idea as fruitless once the first marks for the features had been traced.

 A shimmering cloak encircled the bizarre figure, one that had no hood, but a collar that rose into great
spikes at the back.

“Malygos . . .” Krasus murmured. “How fare you?”

“I am comfortable, comfortable, comfortable—when my privacy isss left to me.”

“I would not be here if I had any other choice.”

“There isss always one other choice—you can leave, leave, leave! I would bealone!”

 The wizard, though, would not be daunted by the cavern's master. “And have you forgotten why you
dwell so silently, so alone, in this place, Malygos? Have you forgotten so soon? It is, after all, only a few
centuries since—”

 The icy creature stalked around the perimeter of the cavern, ever keeping what passed for his eyes
locked on the newcomer. “I forget nothing, nothing, nothing!” came the harsh wind. “I forget the days of
darkness least of all. . . .”

Krasus rotated slowly so as to keep Malygos in front of him at all times. He knew no reason why the
other should attack, but at least one of the others had hinted that perhaps Malygos, being eldest of those
who still lived, might be more than a bit mad.

 The stick-thin legs worked well on the snow and ice, the claws at the ends digging deep. Krasus was
reminded of the poles men in the cold climes used to push themselves along on their skis.

Malygos had not always looked so, nor did he even now have to retain such a shape. Malygos wore
what he wore because in some deep recess of his mind he preferred this over even the shape to which he
had been born.

“Then you remember what he who calls himselfDeathwingdid to you and yours.”

The outlandish face twisted, the claws flexed. Something akin to a hiss escaped Malygos.

“Iremember. . . .”

The cavern suddenly felt much more cramped. Krasus held his ground, knowing that to give in to
Malygos's tortured world might very well condemn him.
“I remember!”

 The ice spires shivered, creating a sound at first like a tiny bell, then quickly rising to a near ear-piercing
cry. Malygos poked his way toward the wizard, scratch of a mouth wide and bitter. Pits deepened
beneath the pale imitation of a brow.

 Snow and ice spread, grew, filling the chamber more and more. Around Krasus, some of the snow
swirled, rose, became a spectral giant of mythic proportions, a dragon of winter, a dragon of ghosts.

 “I remember the promise,” the macabre figure hissed. “I recall the covenant we made! Never death to
another! The world guarded forever!”

The wizard nodded, even though not even Malygos could see within the confines of his hood. “Until the
betrayal.”

 The snow dragon now stretched wings. Less than real, more than a phantasm, it moved in reaction to the
emotions of the cavern's lord. Even the mighty jaws opened and closed, as if the spectral puppet spoke
instead.

“Until the betrayal, the betrayal, the betrayal . . .”A blast of ice burst forth from the snow dragon, ice so
harsh and deadly that it tore into the rocky walls.“Until Deathwing!”

 Krasus kept one hand from Malygos's sight, knowing that at any moment he might have to use it for
swift spellcasting.

Yet, the monstrous creature held himself in check. He shook his head—the snow dragon repeating his
gesture— and added, in a more reasonable voice, “But the day of the dragon had already passed, and
none of us, none of us,none of us,saw anything to fear from him! He was but one aspect of the world, its
most base and chaotic reflection! Of all, his day had come and gone with the most permanence!”

 Krasus leapt back as the ground before him shuddered. He thought at first that Malygos had tried to
catch him unaware, but instead of an attack, the ground simply rose up and formed yet another dragon,
this one of earth and rock.

 “For thefuture,he said,” Malygos went on. “For when the world would have only humans, elves, and
dwarves to watch over its life, he said! Let all the factions, all the flights, all thegreat dragons—theaspects
—come together and re-create, reshape the foul piece, and we would have the key to forever protecting
the world even after the last of us had faded away!” He looked up at the two phantasms he had created.
“And I, I, I . . . I, Malygos, stood with him and convinced the rest!”

 The two dragons swirled around one another, became one another, intertwining over and over. Krasus
tore his eyes from them, reminding himself that although the one before him clearly despised Deathwing
over all other creatures, it did not mean that Malygos would aid him . . . or even let him leave the chill
cavern.

 “And so,” interjected the faceless wizard. “Each dragon, especially theaspects,imbued it with a bit of
themselves, bound themselves, in a sense, to it—”

“Forever put themselves at its mercy!”

Krasus nodded. “Forever ensured that it would be the one thing that could have power over them,
although they did not know it then.” He held up one gloved hand and created an illusion of his own, an
illusion of the object of which they spoke. “You remember how deceiving it looked? You remember
what a simple-looking object it was?”

 And at the summoning of the image, Malygos gasped and cringed. The twin dragons collapsed, snow
and rock spilling everywhere but not at all touching either the wizard or his host. The rumble echoed
through the empty passages, no doubt even out into the vast, empty wilderness above.

 “Take it away, take it away, take it away!” Malygos demanded, nearly whimpered. Clawed hands tried
to cover the indistinct eyes. “Show it to me no more!”

But Krasus would not be stopped. “Look at it, my friend! Look at the downfall of the eldest of races!
Look at what has become known to all as theDemon Soul!”

 The simple, shining disk spun over the mage's gloved palm. A golden prize so unassuming that it had
passed into and out of the possession of many without any of them ever realizing its potential. Only an
illusion appeared here now, yet it still put such fear in the heart of Malygos that it took him more than a
minute to force his gaze upon it.

“Forged by the magic that was the essence of every dragon, created to first fight the demons of the
Burning Legion, then to trap their own magical forces within!” The hooded spellcaster stepped toward
Malygos. “And used by Deathwing to betray all other dragons just when the battle was done! Used by
him against his very allies—”

“Cease this! TheDemon Soulis lost, lost,lost,and the dark one is dead, slain by human and elven
wizards!”

 “Is he?” Stepping over what remained of the two phantasms, Krasus dismissed the image of the artifact
and instead brought forth another. A human, a man clad in black. A confident young noble with eyes
much older than his appearance indicated.

Lord Prestor.

“This man, this mortal, would be the new king of Alterac, Alterac in the heart of the Lordaeron Alliance,
Malygos. Do you not find anything familiar about him? You, especially?”

The icy creature moved closer, peering at the rotating image of the false noble. Malygos inspected
Prestor carefully, cautiously . . . and with growing horror.

“This isnoman!”

“Say it, Malygos. Say who you see.”

The inhuman eyes met Krasus's own. “You knowverywell! ItisDeathwing!” A bestial hiss escaped the
grotesque being that had once worn the majestic form of a dragon.“Deathwing . . .”

 “Deathwing, yes,” Krasus returned, his own tone almost emotionless. “Deathwing, who has been twice
thought dead. Deathwing, who wielded theDemon Souland forever ended any hope of a return to the
Age of the Dragon. Deathwing . . . who now seeks to manipulate the younger races into doing his
treacherous bidding.”
“He will have them at war with one another. . . .”

 “Yes, Malygos. He will have them at war with one another until only a few survive . . . at which point
Deathwing will finish those. You know what a world he desires. One in which there is only he and his
selected followers. Deathwing'spurifiedrealm . . . with no room even for those dragons not of his ilk.”

“Nooo . . .”

 Malygos's form suddenly expanded in all directions, and his skin took on a reptilian cast. The coloring of
that skin changed, too, from an icy white to a dark and frosty silver-blue. His limbs thickened and his
visage grew longer, more draconic. Malygos did not complete the transformation, though, stopping at a
point that left him resembling a horrific parody of dragon and insect, a creature of nightmare. “I allied
myself with him, and for this my flight saw ruin. I am all that is left of mine! TheDemon Soultook my
children,mymates.I lived only with the knowledge that he who had betrayed all had perished, and that the
cursed disk had been forever expunged—”

“So did we all, Malygos.”

“But he lives! He lives!”

 The dragon's sudden rage left the cavern quivering. Icy spears lanced the snowy floor, creating further
tremors that rocked Krasus.

“Yes, he lives, Malygos, he lives despite your sacrifices. . . .”

The macabre leviathan eyed him closely. “I lost much— too much! But you, you who call yourself
Krasus, you who once also wore the form ofdragon,you lost all, too!”

 Visions of his beloved queen passed quickly through Krasus's mind. Visions of the days when the red
flight of Alexstrasza had been ascendant washed over him. . . .

He had been the second of her consorts—but the first in loyalty and love.

The wizard shook his head, clearing away painful memories. The yearning to patrol the skies once more
had to be quelled. Until things changed, he had to remain human, remain Krasus—not the red dragon
Korialstrasz.

 “Yes . . . I lost much,” Krasus finally replied, his control returned to him. “But I hope to regain something
. . . something for all of us.”

“How?”

“I would free Alexstrasza.”

Malygos roared with mad laughter. He roared long and hard, far longer than even his madness
warranted. He roared in mockery of all the wizard hoped to achieve.“Thatwould serve you
well—provided you could achieve such an impossible goal! But what good does that do me? What do
you offerme,little one?”

“You know what Aspect she is. You know what she may do for you.”
 The laughter ceased. Malygos hesitated, clearly not wanting to believe, yet desperate to do so. “She
could not—couldshe?”

“I believe it may be possible. I believe enough of a chance exists that it would be worth your efforts.
Besides, what other future do you have?”

 The draconic features intensified, and the wizard's host swelled incredibly. Now at last a beast five, ten,
twenty times the size of Krasus stood before him, nearly all vestiges of the macabre creature Malygos
had first been, gone. A dragon stood before Krasus, a dragon not seen since the days before humankind.

 And with his return to his original form, so, apparently, returned some of Malygos's misgivings, for he
asked the one question that Krasus had both dreaded and waited for. “The orcs. How is it that the orcs
can hold her? That I have always wondered, wondered, wondered . . .”

“You know the only way they could keep her as prisoner, my friend.”

 The dragon reared his gleaming silver head back and hissed. “TheDemon Soul?Those insignificant
creatures have theDemon Soul?That is why you flashed that foul image before me?”

“Yes, Malygos, they have theDemon Souland although I do not think that they know fully what they
wield, they know enough to keep Alexstrasza at bay . . . but that is not the worst of it.”

“And what could be worse?”

 Krasus knew that he had nearly pulled the elder leviathan close enough to sanity to agree to help in
rescuing the Dragonqueen, but that what he told Malygos next might put to ruination those
accomplishments. Nonetheless, for the sake of more than simply his beloved mistress, the dragon who
masqueraded as one of the wizards of the Kirin Tor had to tell his one possible ally the truth. “I believe
Deathwing now knows what I do . . . and will also not stop until the cursed disk—and Alexstrasza—are
bothhis.”




TEN



For the second time in the past few days, Rhonin awoke among the trees. This time, however, the face
of Vereesa did not greet him, which proved something of a disappointment. Instead, he awoke to a
darkening sky and complete silence. No birds sang in the forest, no animals moved among the foliage.

 A sense of foreboding touched the wizard. Slowly, cautiously, he lifted his head, glanced around. Rhonin
saw trees and bushes, but nothing much more. No dragon, certainly, especially one so imposing and
treacherous as—

“Aaah, you are awake at last. . . .”
Deathwing?

 Rhonin looked to his left—a place he had already surveyed earlier—and watched with trepidation as a
piece of the growing shadows around him detached, then coalesced into a hooded form reminiscent of
someone he knew.

“Krasus?” he muttered, a moment later realizing this could not be his faceless patron. What moved
before him wore the shadows with pride, lived as part of them.

No, he had been correct the first time.Deathwing.The shape mightseemhuman, but, if dragons could
possibly wear such forms, this could only be the black beast himself.

 A face appeared under the hood, a man of dark, handsome, avian features. A noble face . . . at least on
the surface. “You are well?”

“I'm in one piece, thank you.”

The thin mouth jutted upward slightly at the edges in what almost would have been a smile. “You know
me, then, human?”

“You're . . . you're Deathwing the Destroyer.”

 The shadows around the figure moved, faded a little. The face that almost passed for human, almost
passed for elf, grew slightly more distinct. The edges of the mouth jutted up a bit more. “One among
many of my titles, mage, and as accurate and inaccurate as any other.” He cocked his head to one side.
“I knew I chose well; you do not even seem surprised that I appear to you thus.”

“Your voice is the same. I could never forget it.”

 “More astute than some you are, then, my mortal friend. There are those who would not know me even
if I transformed before their very eyes!” The figure chuckled. “If you would like proof, I could do that
even now!”

 “Thank you—but, no.” The last vestiges of day began to fade behind the wizard's ominous rescuer.
Rhonin wondered how long he had been unconscious—and where Deathwing had brought him. Most of
all, he wondered why he still lived.

“What do you want of me?”

“I want nothing of you, Wizard Rhonin. Rather, I wish to helpyouin your quest.”

 “My quest?” No one but Krasus and the Kirin Tor inner council knew of his true mission, and Rhonin
had already begun to wonder if even all of the latter knew. Master wizards could be secretive, with their
own hidden agendas set ahead of all others. Certainly, though, his present companion should have been
in the dark about such matters.

 “Oh, yes, Rhonin, your quest.” Deathwing's smile suddenly stretched to a length not at all human, and the
teeth revealed in that smile were sharp, pointed. “To free the great Dragonqueen, the wondrous
Alexstrasza!”

Rhonin reacted instinctively, uncertain as to how the leviathan had learned of his true mission but still
confident that Deathwing had not been meant to discover it. Deathwing despised all beings, and that
included those dragons not of his ilk. No past tale in history had ever spoken of any love between this
great beast and the crimson queen.

 The spell the wary mage suddenly utilized had served him well during the war. It had crushed the life out
of a charging orc with the blood of six knights and a fellow wizard on his meaty hands, and in a lesser
form had held one of the orc warlocks at bay while Rhonin had cast his ultimate spell. Against dragons,
however, Rhonin had no experience. The scrolls had insisted that it worked especially well at binding the
ancient behemoths. . . .

Rings of gold formed around Deathwing—

—and the shadowy figure walked right through them.

“Now, was thatreallynecessary?” An arm emerged from the cloak. Deathwing pointed.

A rock next to where Rhonin laysizzledmadly . . . then melted before his very eyes. The molten stone
dribbled into the ground, seeped into every crack, disappearing without a trace as rapidly as it had
melted in the first place. All in only scant seconds.

 “This is what I could have done to you, wizard, if such had been my choice. Twice now your life is owed
to me; must I make it a third and final time?”

Rhonin wisely shook his head.

 “Reason at last.” Deathwing approached, becoming more solid as he neared. He pointed again, this time
at the mage's other side. “Drink. You will find it most refreshing.”

 Looking down, Rhonin discovered a wine sack sitting in the grass. Despite the fact that it had not been
there a few seconds before, he did not hesitate to pick it up, then sip from the spout. Not only had his
incredible thirst demanded it of him by this point, but the dragon might take his refusal as yet another act
of defiance. For the moment, Rhonin could do nothing but cooperate . . . and hope.

 His ebony-clad companion moved again, briefly growing indistinct, almost insubstantial. That Deathwing,
let aloneanydragon, could take on human form distressed the wizard. Who could say what a creature
such as this could do among Rhonin's people? For that matter, how did the wizard know that Deathwing
had notalreadyspread his darkness through this very method?

 And, if so, why would he now reveal such a secret to Rhonin—unless he intended to eventually silence
the mage?

“You know so little of us.”

Rhonin's eyes widened. Did Deathwing's powers include the ability to read another's thoughts?

 The dragon settled near the human's left, seeming to sit upon some chair or massive rock that Rhonin
could not see behind the flowing robe. Under a widow's peak of pure night, unblinking sable eyes met
and defeated Rhonin's own gaze.

As the wizard looked away, Deathwing repeated his previous statement. “You know so little of us.”
“There's—there's not much documentation on dragons. Most of the researchers get eaten.”

Weak as the wizard's attempt at humor might have seemed to Rhonin, Deathwing found it quite amusing.
He laughed. Laughed hard. Laughed with what, in others, would have been an insane edge.

 “I had forgotten how amusing your kind can be, my little friend! How amusing!” The too-wide,
tootoothsome smile returned in all its sinister glory. “Yes, there might be some truth to that.”

No longer complacent in simply lying down before the menacing form, Rhonin sat straight up. He might
have continued on to a standing position, but a simple glance from Deathwing seemed to warn that this
might not be wise at such a juncture.

“What do you want of me?” Rhonin asked again. “What am I to you?”

“You are a means to an end, a way of achieving a goal long out of reach—a desperate act by a
desperate creature. . . .”

At first Rhonin did not comprehend. Then he saw the frustration in the dragon's expression. “You—are
desperate?”

Deathwing rose again, spreading his arms almost as if he intended to fly off. “What do you see, human?”

“A figure in shadowy black. The dragon Deathwing in another guise.”

 “The obvious answer, but do you not see more, my little-friend? Do you not see the loyal legions of my
kind? Do you see the many black dragons—or, for that matter, the crimson ones, who once filled the
sky, long before the coming of humans, of even elves?”

Not exactly certain where Deathwing sought to lead him, Rhonin only shook his head. Of one thing he
had already become convinced. Sanity had no stable home in the mind of this creature.

 “You see them not,” the dragon began, growing slightly more reptilian in skin and form. The eyes
narrowed and the teeth grew longer, sharper. Even the hooded figure himself grew larger, and it seemed
that wings sought to escape the confines of his robe. Deathwing became more shadow than substance, a
magical being caught midway in transformation.

“You see them not,” he began again, eyes closing briefly. The wings, the eyes, the teeth—all reverted to
what they had seemed a moment before. Deathwing regained both substance and humanity, the latter if
only on the surface. “. . . because they no longerexist.”

 He seated himself, then held out a hand, palm up. Above that hand, images suddenly leapt into being.
Tiny draconic figures flew about a world of green glory. The dragons themselves fluttered about in every
color of the rainbow. A sense of overwhelming joy filled the air, touching even Rhonin.

 “The world was ours and we kept it well. The magic was ours and we guarded it well. Life was ours . . .
and we reveled in it well.”

 But something new came into the picture. It took a few seconds for the suspicious mage to identify the
tiny figures as elves, but not elves like Vereesa. These elves were beautiful in their own way, too, but it
was a cold, haughty beauty, one that, in the end, repelled him.
 “But others came, lesser forms, minute life spans. Quick to rashness, they plunged into what we knew
was too great a risk.” Deathwing's voice grew almost as chill as the beauty of the dark elves. “And, in
their folly, they brought thedemonsto us.”

 Rhonin leaned forward without thinking. Every wizard studied the legends of the demon horde, what
some called theBurning Legion,but if such monstrous beings had ever existed, he himself had found no
proof. Most of those who had claimed dealings with them had generally turned out to be of questionable
states of mind.

Yet, as the wizard tried to catch even a glimpse of one of the demons, Deathwing abruptly closed his
hand, dismissing the images.

 “If not for the dragons, this world would no longer be. Even a thousand orc hordes cannot compare to
what we faced, to what we sacrificed ourselves against! In that time, we fought as one! Our blood
mingled on the battlefield as we drove the demons from our world. . . .” The dark figure closed his eyes
for a moment. “. . . and in the process, we lost control of the very thing we sought to save. The age of
our kind passed. The elves, then the dwarves, and finally the humans each laid their claims to the future.
Our numbers dwindled and, worse, we fought among ourselves.Slewone another.”

 That much, Rhonin knew.Everyoneknew of the animosity between the five existing dragon flights,
especially between the black and crimson. The origins of that animosity lay lost in antiquity, but perhaps
now the wizard could learn the awful truth. “But why fight one another after sacrificing so much
together?”

 “Misguided ideas, miscommunication . . . so many factors that you would not understand them all even if
I had the time to explain them.” Deathwing sighed. “And because of those factors, we are reduced to so
few.” His gaze shifted, became more intense again. The eyes seemed to bore into Rhonin's own. “But
that is the past! I would make amends for what had to be done . . . for whatIhad to do, human. I would
help you free the DragonqueenAlexstrasza.”

 Rhonin bit back his first response. Despite the easy manner, despite the guise, he still sat before the most
dire of dragons. Deathwing might pretend friendship, camaraderie, but one wrong word could still
condemn Rhonin to a grisly end.

“But—” he tried to choose his words carefully, “—you and she are enemies.”

 “For the same insipid reasons our kind has so long fought. Mistakes were made, human, but I would
rectify them now.” The eyes pulled the wizard toward them,intothem. “Alexstrasza and I should not be
foes.”

Rhonin had to agree with that. “Of course not.”

“Once we were the greatest of allies, of friends, and that can happen again, do you not agree?”

The mage could see nothing but those penetrating orbs. “I do.”

“And you are on a quest to rescue her yourself.”

A sensation stirred within Rhonin, and he suddenly felt uncomfortable under Deathwing's gaze. “How did
you—how did you find out about that?”
“That is of no consequence, is it?” The eyes snared the human's again.

The discomfort faded. Everything faded under the intense stare of the dragon. “No, I suppose not.”

 “On your own, you would fail. There is no doubt of that. Why you continued as long as you did, even I
cannot fathom! Now, though, now, with my aid, youcando the impossible, my friend. Youwillrescue the
Dragonqueen!”

 With that, Deathwing stretched forth a hand, in which lay a small silver medallion. Rhonin's fingers
reached out seemingly of their own accord, taking that medallion and bringing it close. He looked down
at it, studying the runes etched around the edge, the black crystal in the middle. Some of the runes he
knew the meaning of, others he had never seen in his life, though the mage could sense their power.

“Youwillbe able to rescue Alexstrasza, my fine little puppet,” the too-wide grin stretched to its fullest.
“Because with this, I will be there to guide you the entireway. . . .”


How did one lose a dragon?

 That question had reared its ugly head time and time again, and neither Vereesa nor her companion had
a satisfactory answer. Worse, night had begun to settle over Khaz Modan, and the gryphon, already long
exhausted, clearly could not go on much farther.

 Deathwing had been in sight nearly the entire trek, if only from a great distance. Even the eyes of
Falstad, not so nearly as sharp as the elf 's, had been able to make out the massive form flying toward the
interior. Only whenever Deathwing had flown through the occasional cloud had he vanished, and that for
no more than a breath or two.

Until an hour past.

 The gargantuan beast and his burden had entered into the latest cloud, just as they had so many others
previous. Falstad had kept the gryphon on target and both Vereesa and the dwarf had watched for the
reappearance of the leviathan on the other side. The cloud had been alone, the next nearest some miles to
the south. The ranger and her companion could see it almost in its entirety. They could not possibly miss
when Deathwing exited.

No dragon had emerged.

 They had watched and waited, and when they could wait no longer, Falstad had urged his animal to the
cloud, clearly risking all if Deathwing hid within. The dark one, however, had been nowhere to be found.
The largest and most sinister of dragons had utterly vanished.

“'Tis no use, my elven lady,” the gryphon rider finally called. “We'll have to land! Neither we nor my
poor mount can go any farther!”

 She had to agree, although a part of her still wanted to continue the hunt. “All right!” The ranger eyed the
landscape below. The coast and forests had long given way to a much rockier, less hospitable region
that, she knew, eventually built up into the crags of Grim Batol. There were still wooded areas, but
overall the coverage looked very sparse. They would have to hide in the hills in order to achieve sufficient
cover to avoid detection by orcs atop dragons. “What about that area over there?”
 Falstad followed her pointing finger. “Those roughhewn hills that look like my grandmother, beard and
all? Aye, 'tis a good choice! We'll descend toward those!”

 The fatigued gryphon gratefully obeyed the signal to descend. Falstad guided him toward the greatest
congregation of hills, specifically, what looked like a tiny valley between several. Vereesa held on tight as
the animal landed, her eyes already searching for any possible threat. This deep into Khaz Modan, the
orcs surely had outposts in the vicinity.

 “The Aerie be praised!” the dwarf rumbled as they dismounted. “As much as I enjoy the freedom of the
sky, that's far too long to sit on anything!” He rubbed the gryphon's leonine mane. “But a good beast you
are, and deserving of water and food!”

“I saw a stream nearby,” Vereesa offered. “It may have fish in it, too.”

 “Then he'll find it if he wants it.” Falstad removed the bridle and other gear from his mount. “And find it
on his own.” He patted the gryphon on the rump and the beast leapt into the air, suddenly once more
energetic now that his burdens had been taken from him.

“Is that wise?”

 “My dear elven lady, fish don't necessarily make a meal for one like him! Best to let him hunt on his own
for something proper. He'll come back when he's satiated, and if anyone sees him . . . well, even Khaz
Modan has some wild gryphons left.” When she did not look reassured, Falstad added, “He'll only be
gone for a short time. Just long enough for us to put together a meal for ourselves.”

They carried with them a few provisions, which the dwarf immediately divided. With a stream nearby,
both took their fill of what remained in the water sacks. A fire was out of the question this deep into
orc-held territory, but fortunately the night did not look to be a cool one.

Sure enough, the gryphon did return promptly, belly full. The animal settled down by Falstad, who
dropped one hand lightly on the creature's head as he finished eating.

“I saw nothing from the air,” he finally said. “but we can't assume that the orcs aren't near.”

“Shall we take turns at watch?”

“'Tis the best thing to do. Shall I go first or you?”

 Too wound up to sleep, Vereesa volunteered. Falstad did not argue and, despite their present
circumstances, immediately settled down, falling asleep but a few seconds later. Vereesa admired the
dwarf 's ability to do so, wishing that she could be like him in that one respect.

The night struck her as too silent compared to the forests of her childhood, but the ranger reminded
herself that these rocky lands had been despoiled by the orcs for many years now. True, wildlife still lived
here—as evidenced by the gryphon's full stomach—but most creatures in Khaz Modan were much more
wary than those back in Quel'Thalas. Both the orcs and their dragons thrived heavily on fresh meat.

 A few stars dotted the sky, but if not for her race's exceptional night vision, Vereesa would have nearly
been blind. She wondered how Rhonin would have fared in this darkness, assuming that he still lived. Did
he also wander the wastelands between here and Grim Batol, or had Deathwing brought him far beyond
even there, perhaps to some realm entirely unknown to the ranger?
 She refused to believe that he had somehow allied himself with the dark one, but, if not, what did
Deathwing do with him? For that matter, could it be that she had sent Falstad and herself on a wild
dragon-chase, and that Rhonin had not been the precious cargo the armored leviathan had been
carrying?

 So many questions and no answers. Frustrated, the ranger stepped away from the dwarf and his mount,
daring to survey some of the enshrouded hills and trees. Even with her superior eyesight, most resembled
little more than black shapes. That only served to make her surroundings feel more oppressive and
dangerous, even though there might not be an orc for miles.

 Her sword still sheathed, Vereesa ventured farther. She came upon a pair of gnarled trees, still alive but
just barely. Touching each in turn, the elf could feel their weariness, their readiness to die. She could also
sense some of their history, going far back before the terror of the Horde. Once, Khaz Modan had been
a healthy land, one where, Vereesa knew, the hill dwarves and others had made their homes. The
dwarves, however, had fled under the relentless onslaught of the orcs, vowing someday to return.

The trees, of course, could not flee.

 For the hill dwarves, the day of return would come soon, the elf felt, but by then it would probably be
too late for these trees and many like them. Khaz Modan was a land needing many, many decades to
recoup—if it ever could.

 “Courage,” she whispered to the pair. “A new Spring will come, I promise you.” In the language of the
trees, of all plants, Spring meant not only a season, but also hope in general, a renewal of life.

 As the elf stepped back, both trees looked a little straighter, a little taller. The effect of her words on
them made Vereesa smile. The greater plants had methods beyond even the ken of elves through which
they communicated with one another. Perhaps her encouragement would be passed on. Perhaps some of
them would survive after all. She could only hope.

 Her brief rapport with the trees lightened the burden on both her mind and heart. The rocky hills no
longer felt so foreboding. The elf moved along more readily now, certain that matters would yet turn out
for the best, even in regards to Rhonin.

 The end of her watch came far more quickly than she had assumed it would. Vereesa almost thought of
letting Falstad sleep longer—his snoring indicated that he had sunken deep—but she also knew that she
would only be a liability if her lack of rest later caused her to falter in battle. With some reluctance, the elf
headed back to her companion—

 —and stopped as the nearly inaudible sound of a dried branch cracking warned that something or
someone drew near.

 Not daring to wake Falstad for fear of losing the element of surprise, Vereesa walked straight past the
slumbering gryphon-rider and his mount, pretending interest in the dark landscape beyond. She heard
more slight movement, again from the same direction. Only one intruder, perhaps? Maybe, maybe not.
The sound could have been meant to draw her in that very direction, the better to prevent Vereesa from
discovering other foes waiting in silence.

Again came the slight sound of movement—followed by a savage squawk and a huge form leaping from
nearby her.
 Vereesa had her weapon ready even as she realized that it had been Falstad's gryphon who had reacted,
not some monstrous creature in the woods. Like her, the animal had heard the faint noise, but, unlike the
elf, the gryphon had not needed to weigh options. He had reacted with the honed instincts of his kind.

 “What is it?” snarled Falstad, leaping to his feet quite effortlessly for a dwarf. Already he had his
stormhammer drawn and ready for combat.

“Something among those old trees! Something your mount went after!”

“Well, he'd better not eat it until we've the chance to see what it is!”

 In the dark, Vereesa could just make out the shadowy form of the gryphon, but not yet its adversary.
The ranger could, however, hear another cry over those of the winged beast, a cry that did not sound at
all like a challenge.

“No! No! Away! Away! Get off of me! No tidbit am I!”

 The pair hurried toward the frantic call. Whatever the gryphon had cornered certainly sounded like no
threat. The voice reminded the elf of someone, but who, she could not say.

“Back!” Falstad called to his mount. “Back, I say! Obey!”

 The leonine avian seemed disinclined at first to listen, as if what he had captured he felt either belonged
to him or could not be trusted free. From the darkness just beyond the beaked head came whimpering.
Muchwhimpering.

Had some child managed to wander alone out here in the midst of Khaz Modan? Surely not. The orcs
had held this territory for years! Where would such a child have come from?

“Please, oh, please, oh, please! Save this insignificant wretch from this monster—Pfaugh!What breath it
has!”

The elf froze. No child spoke like that.

 “Back, blast you!” Falstad swatted his mount on the rump. The animal stretched his wings once, let out a
throaty squawk, then finally backed away from his prey.

 A short, wiry figure leapt up and immediately began heading in the opposite direction. However, the
ranger moved more swiftly, racing forward and snagging the intruder by what Vereesa realized was one
lengthy ear.

“Ow! Please don't hurt! Please don't hurt!”

 “What've you got there?” the gryphon-rider muttered, joining her. “Never have I heard something that
squealed so! Shut it up or I'll have to run it through! It'll bring every orc in hearing running!”

“You heard what he said,” the frustrated elf told the squirming form. “Be silent!”

Their undesired companion quieted.
 Falstad reached into a pouch. “I've something here that'll help us bring a little light onto matters, my elven
lady, although I'm thinking I already know what sort of scavenger we've caught!”

 He pulled out a small object, which, after setting his hammer aside, he rubbed between his thick palms.
As he did this, the object began to glow rather faintly. A few more seconds' action, and the glow
increased, finally revealing the object to be some sort of crystal.

 “A gift from a dead comrade,” Falstad explained. He brought the glowing crystal toward their captive.
“Now let's see if I was correct—aye, Ithoughtso!”

 So had Vereesa. She and the dwarf had captured themselves one of the most untrustworthy creatures in
existence. A goblin.

“Spying, were you?” The ranger's companion rumbled. “Maybe we should run you through now and be
done with it!”

“No! No! Please! This disgraceful one is no spy! No orc-friend am I! I just obeyed orders!”

“Then what are you doing out here?”

 “Hiding! Hiding! Saw a dragon like the night! Dragons try to eat goblins, you know!” The ugly, greenish
creature stated the last as if anyone should understand that.

A dragon like the night?“A black dragon, you mean?” Vereesa held the goblin nearer. “You saw this?
When?”

“Not long! Just before dark!”

“In the sky or on the ground?”

“The ground! He—”

Falstad looked at her. “You can't trust the word of a goblin, my elven lady! They don't know the
meaning of truth!”

“I will believe him if he can answer one question. Goblin, was this dragon alone, and, if not, who was
with him?”

 “Don't want to talk about goblin-eating dragons!” he began, but one prod by Vereesa's blade opened a
reservoir of words. “Not alone! Not alone! He had another with him! Maybe to eat, but first to talk!
Didn't listen! Just wanted to get away! Don't like dragons and don't like wizards—”

 “Wizards?” both the elf and Falstad blurted. Vereesa tried to keep her hopes in check. “He looked well,
this wizard? Unharmed?”

“Yes—”

“Describe him.”

 The goblin squirmed, waving his thin little arms and legs. The ranger did not find herself fooled by the
spindly looking limbs. Goblins could be deadly fighters, with strength and cunning their puny forms belied.
“Red-maned and full of arrogance! Tall and clad in dark blue! Know no name! Heard no name!”

 Not much of a description, but certainly enough. How many tall, red-haired wizards dressed in dark blue
robes could there be, especially in the company of Deathwing?

“That sounds like your friend,” Falstad replied with a grunt. “Looks like you were right after all.”

“We need to go after him.”

 “In the dark? First, my elven lady, you've not slept at all, and second, even though the dark gives us
cover, it also makes it damn hard to see anything else—even a dragon!”

 As much as she desired to go on with the hunt right now, Vereesa knew that the dwarf had a point. Still,
she could not wait until morning. Precious time would slip away. “I only need a couple of hours, Falstad.
Give me that and then we can be on our way.”

“It'll still be dark . . . and, in case you've forgotten, big as he is, Deathwing's as black as—as night!”

 “We do not have to go searching for him, though.” She smiled. “We already at least know where he
landed—or rather, one of us here does.”

They both looked at the goblin, who clearly desired to be elsewhere.

“How do we know we can trust him? 'Tis no tall tale that these little green thieves are notorious liars!”

The ranger turned the sharp tip of her sword toward the goblin's throat. “Because he will have two
options. Either he shows us where Deathwing and Rhonin landed, or I cut him up for dragon bait.”

Falstad chuckled. “You think even Deathwing could stomach the likes of him?”

 Their short captive quivered and his unsettling yellow eyes, completely lacking in pupils, widened in
outright fear. Despite the close proximity of the sword tip, the goblin began hopping up and down in wild
fashion. “Will gladly show you! Gladly indeed! No fear of dragons here! Will guide you and lead you to
your friend!”

“Keep it down, you!” The ranger tightened her hold on the devilish creature. “Or will I have to cut out
your tongue?”

“Sorry, sorry, sorry . . .” murmured their new companion. The goblin quieted down. “Don't hurt this
miserable one. . . .”

“Pfah!'Tis a poor excuse of even a goblin we've got here!”

“So long as he shows us the way.”

“This wretch will guide you well, mistress! Very well!”

Vereesa considered. “We will have to bind him for now—”

“I'll tie him to my mount. That'll keep the foul rodent under control.”
 The goblin looked even more ill at this latest suggestion, so much so that the silver-haired ranger actually
felt some sympathy for the emerald creature. “All right, but make certain that your animal will not do him
any harm.”

“So long as he behaves himself.” Falstad eyed the prisoner.

“This poor excuse will behave himself, honest and truly. . . .”

Withdrawing the tip of her blade from his throat, Vereesa tried to mollify the goblin a little. Perhaps with
a little courtesy, they could get more out of the hapless being. “Lead us to where we want to go, and we
will let you loose before there is any danger of the dragon eating you. You have my word on that.” She
paused. “You have a name, goblin?”

“Yes, mistress, yes!” The oversized head bobbed up and down. “My name isKryll,mistress,Kryll!”

“Well, Kryll, do as I ask and all will go well, understand?”

 The goblin fairly bounced up and down. “Oh, yes, yes, I do, mistress! I assure you, this miserable one'll
lead you exactly where you need to go!” He gave her a madcap grin. “I promise you. . . .”




ELEVEN



 Nekros fingered theDemon Soul,trying to decide his next move. The orc commander had been unable to
sleep most of the night, Torgus's failure to return from his mission eating at the thoughts of the elder
warrior. Had he failed? Had both dragons perished? If so, what sort of force did that mean the humans
had sent to rescue Alexstrasza? An army of gryphon-riders with wizards in tow? Surely even the Alliance
could not afford to send such might, not with the war to the north and their own internal squabbles. . . .

He had tried to contact Zuluhed with his concerns, but the shaman had not responded to his magical
missive. The orc knew what that meant; with matters already so dire elsewhere, Zuluhed had no time for
what likely seemed to him his subordinate's fanciful fears. The shaman expected Nekros to act as any orc
warrior should, with decisiveness and assurance . . . which left the maimed officer back at square one.

 TheDemon Soulgave him great power to command, but Nekros knew that he did not understand even a
fraction of its potential. In fact, understanding the depths of his ignorance made the orc uncertain as to
whether he dared eventryto use the artifact for more than he already had. Zuluhed still did not realize
what he had passed to his subordinate. From what little Nekros had discovered on his own, theDemon
Soulcontained such relentless power that, wielded with skill, it could likely wipe out the entire Alliance
force the orc officer knew to be massing near the northern regions of Khaz Modan.

The trouble was, if wielded carelessly, the disk could also obliterate all of Grim Batol.
 “Give me a good ax and two working legs and I'd throw you into the nearest volcano. . . .” he muttered
at the golden artifact.

At that moment, a harried-looking warrior barged into his quarters, ignoring his commander's sudden
glare. “Torgus returns!”

 Good news at last! The commander exhaled in relief. If Torgus had returned, then at least one threat had
been eradicated after all. Nekros fairly leapt from his bench. Hopefully Torgus had been able to take at
least one prisoner; Zuluhed would expect it. A little torture and the whining human would no doubt tell
them everything they needed to know about the upcoming invasion to the north. “At last! How far?”

 “A few minutes. No more.” The other orc had an anxious expression on his ugly face, but Nekros
ignored it for the moment, eager to welcome back the mighty dragon-rider. At least Torgus had not let
him down.

 He put away theDemon Souland hurried as fast he could to the vast cavern the dragon-riders used for
landings and takeoffs. The warrior who had brought word followed close behind, curiously silent.
Nekros, however, welcomed the silence this time. The only voice he wanted to hear was that of Torgus,
relating his great victory over the outsiders.

 Several other orcs, including most of the surviving riders, already awaited Torgus at the wide mouth of
the cavern. Nekros frowned at the lack of order, but knew that, like him, they eagerly awaited the
champion's triumphant arrival.

 “Make way! Make way!” Pushing past the rest, he stared out into the faint light of predawn. At first, he
could not spot either leviathan; the sentry who had noted their imminent arrival surely had to have the
sharpest eyes of any orc. Then . . . then, gradually, Nekros noted a dark form in the distance, one that
swelled in size as it neared.

 Only one? The peg-legged orc grunted. Another great loss, but one he could live with now that the
threat had been vanquished. Nekros could not tell which dragon returned, but, like the others, he
expected it to be Torgus's mount. No one could defeat Grim Batol's greatest champion.

 And yet . . . and yet . . . as the dragon coalesced into a defined shape, Nekros noticed that it flew in
ragged fashion, that its wings looked torn and the tail hung practically limp. Squinting, he saw that a rider
did indeed guide the beast, but that rider sat half-slumped in the saddle, as if barely conscious.

An uncomfortable tingle ran up and down the commander's spine.

“Clear away!” He shouted. “Clear away! He'll need lots of room to land!”

 In truth, as Nekros stumped away, he realized that Torgus's mount would need nearly all the free room
in the vast chamber. The closer the dragon got, the more his erratic flight pattern revealed itself. For one
brief moment, Nekros even thought that the leviathan might crash into the side of the mountain, so badly
did he maneuver. Only at the last, perhaps urged on by his handler, did the crimson monster manage to
enter.

With a crash, the dragon landed amongst them.

Orcs shouted in surprise and consternation as the wounded beast slid forward, unable to halt his
momentum. One warrior went flying as a wing clipped him. The tail swung to and fro, battering the walls
and bringing down chunks of rock from the ceiling. Nekros planted himself against one wall and gritted
his teeth. Dust rose everywhere.

A silence suddenly filled the chamber, a silence during which the maimed officer and those who had
managed to get out of the dragon's path began to realize that the gargantuan creature before them had
made it back to the roost . . . only to die.

 Not so, however, the rider. A figure arose in the dust, a teetering yet still impressive form that unlashed
itself from the giant corpse and slid down the side, nearly falling to his knees when he touched the floor.
He spat blood and dirt from his mouth, then peered around as best he could, searching . . . searching . . .

For Nekros.

“We're lost!” bellowed the bravest, the strongest of the dragon-riders. “We're lost, Nekros!”

 Torgus's arrogance had now been tempered by something else, something that his commander belatedly
recognized as resignation. Torgus, who had always sworn to go down fighting, now looked so very
defeated.

No! Not him!The older orc hobbled over to his champion as quickly as he could, his expression
darkening. “Silence! I'll have none of that talk! You shame the clans! You shame yourself!”

Torgus leaned as best he could against the remains of his mount. “Shame? I've no shame, old one! I've
only seen the truth—and the truth is that we've no hope now! Not here!”

 Ignoring the fact that the other orc stood taller and outweighed him, Nekros took hold of the rider by the
shoulders and shook him. “Speak! What makes you spout such treason?”

“Look at me, Nekros! Look at my mount! You know what did this? You know what we fought?”

“An armada of gryphons? A legion of wizards?”

 Bloodstains covered the once magnificent honors still pinned to Torgus's chest. The dragon-rider tried to
laugh, but got caught in a coughing fit. Nekros impatiently waited.

“Would—would've been a fairer fight, if I say so! No, we saw only a handful of gryphons—probably
bait! Have to be! Too small for any useful force—”

“Never mind that! What did this to you?”

 “What did this?” Torgus looked past his commander, eyeing his fellow warriors. “Death itself——death
in the form of a black dragon!”

Consternation broke out among the orcs. Nekros himself stiffened at the words. “Deathwing?”

 “And fighting for the humans! Came from the clouds just as I tried for one of the gryphons! We barely
escaped!”

 It could not be . . . and yet . . . ithadto be. Torgus would not have made up such a bald lie. If he said
that Deathwing had done this—and certainly the rips and tears that decorated the giant corpse added
much credence to his words—then Deathwinghaddone this.
“Tell me more! Leave out no detail!”

 Despite his own condition, the rider did just that, telling how he and the other orc had come upon the
seemingly insignificant band. Scouts, perhaps. Torgus had seen several dwarves, an elf, and at least one
wizard. Simple pickings, save for the unexpected sacrifice of a human warrior who had somehow
single-handedly slain the other dragon.

 Even then, Torgus had expected little more trouble. The wizard had proved some annoyance, but had
vanished in the midst of combat, likely having fallen to his death. The orc had moved in on the party,
ready to finish them.

 That had been when Deathwing had attacked. He had made simple work of Torgus's own beast, who
had initially refused his handler's instructions and had sought battle. No coward, Torgus had nonetheless
immediately known the futility of battling the armored behemoth. Over and over during the struggle he
had shouted for his mount to turn away. Only when the red dragon's wounds had proven too much had
the beast finally obeyed and fled.

 As the story unfolded, Nekros saw all his worst nightmares coming true. The goblin Kryll had been
correct in informing him that the Alliance sought to wrest the Dragonqueen from orc control, but the foul
little creature had either not known or had not bothered to tell his master about the forces amassed for
that quest. Somehow the humans had managed the unthinkable—a pact with the only creature both sides
respected and feared.

“Deathwing . . .” he muttered.

 Yet, why would they would waste the armored behemoth on such a mission? Surely Torgus had it right
when he said that the band he had discovered had to be scouts or bait. Surely a much vaster force
followed close behind.

And suddenly it came to Nekros what was unfolding.

He turned to face the other orcs, fighting to keep his voice from cracking. “The invasion's begun, but the
north's not it! The humans and their allies're coming for us first!”

 His warriors glanced at one another in dismay, clearly realizing that they faced more threat than any in
the Horde could have imagined. It was one thing to die valiantly in battle, another to know one faced
certain slaughter.

 His conclusions made perfect sense to Nekros. Move in unexpectedly from the west, seize the southern
portion of Khaz Modan, free or slay the Dragonqueen— leaving the remnants of the Horde in the north,
near Dun Algaz, bereft of their chief support—then move up from Grim Batol. Caught between the
attackers from the south and those coming from Dun Modr, the last hopes of the orc race would be
crushed, the survivors sent to the guarded enclaves set up by the humans.

 Zuluhed had left him in charge of all matters concerning the mountain and the captive dragons. The
shaman had not seen fit to respond, therefore he assumed he could trust Nekros to do what he must.
Very well, then, Nekros would do justthat.

“Torgus! Get yourself patched up and get some sleep! I'll be needing you later!”
“Nekros—”

“Obey!”

 The fury in his eyes made even the champion back down. Torgus nodded and, with the aid of a
comrade, moved off. Nekros turned his attention back to the others. “Gather whatever's most important
and get it into the wagons! Move all the eggs in crates padded with hay—and keep them warm!” He
paused, going down a mental list. “Be prepared to slay any dragon whelps still too wild to train
properly!”

This made Torgus pause. He and the other riders eyed their commander with horror.“Slaythe whelps?
We need—”

“We need whatever can be moved quickly—just in case!”

The taller orc eyed him. “In case of what?”

“In case I don't manage to take care of Deathwing. . . .”

Now he had everyone staring at him as if he had sprouted a second head and turned into an ogre.

“Take care of Deathwing?” growled one of the other riders.

 Nekros searched for his chief wrangler, the orc who aided him most in dealing with the Dragonqueen.
“You! Come with me! We need to figure out how to move the mother!”

 Torgus finally thought he knew what was going on. “You're abandoning Grim Batol! You're taking
everything north to the lines!”

“Yes . . .”

“They'll just follow! Deathwing'll follow!”

The peg-legged orc snorted. “You've your orders . . . or am I surrounded now by whining peons instead
of mighty warriors?”

The barb struck. Torgus and the others straightened. Nekros might be maimed, but he still commanded.
They could do nothing but obey, regardless of how mad they thought his plans.

 He pushed past the injured champion, pushed past all in his path, mind already racing. Yes, it would be
essential to have the Dragonqueen out in the open, if only at the mouth of this very cavern. That would
serve him best.

He would do as the humans had done. Set the bait— although, just in case he failed, the eggs, at least,
had to reach Zuluhed. Even if onlytheysurvived, it would aid the Horde . . . and if Nekros could achieve
victory, no matter if it cost him his life, then the orcs still had a chance.

 One beefy hand slipped to the pouch where theDemon Soulrested. Nekros Skullcrusher had wondered
about the limitations of the mysterious talisman—now he would have a chance to find out.
The dim light of dawn stirred Rhonin from what seemed one of the deepest slumbers he had ever
experienced. With effort, the wizard pushed himself up and looked around, trying to get his bearings. A
wooded area, not the inn of which he had been dreaming. Not the inn where he and Vereesa had been
sitting, speaking of—

You are awake . . . good . . .

 The words arose within his mind without any warning, nearly sending him into shock. Rhonin leapt to his
feet, spinning around in a circle before finally realizing the source.

He clutched at the small medallion dangling around his throat, the one that had been given to him the
night before by Deathwing.

 A faint glow emanated from the smoky black crystal in the center, and as Rhonin stared at it, he recalled
the entire night's events, including the promise the great leviathan had made.I will be there to guide you
the entire way,the dragon had said.

“Where are you?” the mage finally asked.

Elsewhere,replied Deathwing.But I am also with you. . . .

The thought made Rhonin shudder, and he wondered why he had finally agreed to the dragon's offer.
Likely because he really had not had any choice.

“What happens now?”

The sun rises. You must be on your way. . . .

Peering around, the wary mage eyed the landscape toward the east. The woods gave way to a rocky,
inhospitable area that he knew from maps would eventually guide him to Grim Batol and the mountain
where the orcs kept the Dragonqueen. Rhonin estimated that Deathwing had saved him several days'
journey by bringing him this far. Grim Batol had to be only two or three days away, providing Rhonin
pushed hard.

He started off in the obvious direction—only to have Deathwing immediately interrupt him.

That is not the way you should go.

“Why not? It leads directly to the mountain.”

And into the claws of the orcs, human. Are you such a fool?

Rhonin bridled at the insult, but kept silent his retort. Instead, he asked, “Then where?”

See . . .

 And in the human's mind flashed the image of his present surroundings. Rhonin barely had time to digest
this astonishing vision before it beganmoving.First slowly, then with greater and greater swiftness, the
vision moved along a particular path, racing through the woods and into the rocky regions. From there it
twisted and turned, the images continuing to speed up at a dizzying rate. Cliffs and gullies darted by, trees
passed in a blur. Rhonin had to hold on to the nearest trunk in order not to become too swept up by the
sights within his mind.

 Hills grew higher, more menacing, at last becoming the first mountains. Even then, the vision did not
slow, not until it suddenly fixed on one peak in particular, one which drew the wizard despite his
hesitations.

 At the base of that peak, Rhonin's view shifted skyward with such abruptness that he nearly lost all sense
of equilibrium. The vision climbed the great peak, always showing areas that the wizard realized
contained ledges or handholds. Up and up it went, until at last it reached a narrow cave mouth—

 —and ended as abruptly as it had begun, leaving a shaken Rhonin once more standing amidst the
foliage.

There is the path, the only path that will enable you to achieve our goal. . . .

“But that route will take longer, and go through more precarious regions!” He did not even want to think
of climbing that mountainside. What seemed a simple route for a dragon looked most treacherous to a
human, even one gifted with the power of magic.

You will be aided. I did not say you would have to walk the entire way. . . .

“But—”

It is time for you to begin,the voice insisted.

Rhonin started walking . . . or rather, Rhonin'slegsstarted walking.

The effect lasted only seconds, but it proved sufficient to urge the wizard on. As his limbs returned to his
own use, Rhonin pressed forward, unwilling to suffer through a second lesson. Deathwing had shown him
quite easily how powerful the link between them was.

 The dragon did not speak again, but Rhonin knew that Deathwing lurked somewhere in the recesses of
his mind. Yet for all the black leviathan's power, he seemed not to have total control over Rhonin. At the
very least, Rhonin's thoughts appeared to be hidden from his draconic ally's inspection. Otherwise,
Deathwing would not have been pleased with the wizard at this very moment, for Rhonin already worked
to find a way to extricate himself from the dragon's influence.

 Curious. Last night he had been more than willing to believe most of what Deathwing had told him, even
the part concerning the black's desire to rescue Alexstrasza. Now, however, a sense of reality had set in.
Surely of all creatures Deathwing least desired to see his greatest rival free. Had he not sought the
destruction of her kind throughout the war?

Yet he recalled also that Deathwing had answered that question, too, very late in their conversation.

“The children of Alexstrasza have been raised by the orcs, human. They have been turned against all
other creatures. Her freedom would not change what they have become. They would still serve their
masters. I slay them because there is no other choice—you understand?”

 And Rhoninhadunderstood at the time. Everything the dragon had told him the night before had rung so
true—but in the light of day the wizard now questioned the depths of those truths. Deathwing might have
meant all he said, yet that did not mean that he did not have other, darker reasons for what he did.
 Rhonin contemplated removing the medallion and simply throwing it away. However, to do so would
certainly draw his unwanted ally's attention, and it would be so very simple for Deathwing to locate him.
The dragon had already proven just how swift he could be. Rhonin also doubted that, if Deathwing had
to come for him again, the armored behemoth would do so as comrade.

For now, all he could do was continue on along the selected path. It occurred to Rhonin that he carried
no supplies, not even a water sack, those items now in the sea along with the hapless Molok and their
gryphon. Deathwing had not even seen fit to provide him with anything, the food and drink the dragon
had given him last night apparently all the sustenance the wizard would receive.

 Unperturbed, Rhonin pushed on. Deathwing wanted him to reach the mountain, and with this the mage
agreed. Somehow, Rhonin would make it there.

 As he climbed along the ever more treacherous terrain, his thoughts could not help but return to
Vereesa. The elf had shown a tenacious dedication to her duty, but surely now she had turned back . . .
providing that she, too, had survived the attack. The notion that the ranger might not have survived
formed a sudden lump in Rhonin's throat and caused him to stumble. No, surely she had survived, and
common sense had dictated that she return to Lordaeron and her own kind.

Surely so . . .

Rhonin paused, suddenly filled with the urge to turn around. He had the great suspicion that Vereesa had
not followed common sense, but rather had insisted on going on, possibly even convincing the
unconvincible Falstad into flying her toward Grim Batol. Even now, assuming nothing else had befallen
her, Vereesa might well be on his trail, slowly closing in on him.

The wizard took a step toward the west—

Human . . .

Rhonin bit back a curse as Deathwing's voice filled his head. How had the dragon known so quickly?
Could he read the mage's thoughts after all?

Human . . . it is time you refreshed yourself and ate. . . .

“What—what do you mean?”

You paused. You were looking for water and food, were you not?

“Yes.” No sense telling the dragon the truth.

You are but a short distance from such. Turn east again and journey a few minutes more. I will guide
you.

 His opportunity lost, Rhonin obeyed. Stumbling along the jagged path, he gradually came to a small
patch of trees in the middle of nowhere. Amazing how even in the worst stretches of Khaz Modan life
thrust forth. For the shade alone Rhonin actually gave thanks to his undesired ally.

In the center of the copse will you find what you desire. . . .
Notallhe desired, although the wizard could not tell Deathwing that. Nonetheless, he moved with some
eagerness. More and more, food and water appealed to him. A few minutes' rest would certainly help,
too.

 The trees were short for their kind, only twelve feet in height, but they offered good shade. Rhonin
entered the copse and immediately looked around. Surely there had to be a brook here and possibly
some fruit. What other repast could Deathwing offer from a distance?

 Afeast,apparently. There, in the very center of the wooded area, sat a small display of food and drink
such as Rhonin could not have imagined finding. Roasted rabbit, fresh bread, cut fruit, and—he touched
the flask with some awe—chilled water.

Eat,murmured the voice of the dragon.

 Rhonin obeyed with gusto, digging into the meal. The rabbit had been freshly cooked and seasoned to
perfection; the bread retained the pleasant scent of the oven. Foregoing manners, he drank directly from
the flask . . . and discovered that, although the container should have been halfempty after that, it
remained full. Thereafter, Rhonin drank his fill without concern, knowing that Deathwing wanted him well
. . . if only until the wizard reached the mountain.

 With his magic he could have conjured something of his own, but that would have drawn strength from
him that he might need for more drastic times. In addition, Rhonin doubted that even he could have
created such a repast, at least not without much effort.

Sooner than he hoped, Deathwing's voice came again.You are satiated?

“Yes . . . yes, I am. Thank you.”

It is time to move on. You know the way.

Rhonin did know the way. In fact, he could picture the entire route the dragon had shown him.
Deathwing had apparently wanted to make certain that his pawn did not wander off in the wrong
direction.

With no other choice, the wizard obeyed. He paused only long enough to take one more glance behind
him, hoping against hope that he might see the familiar silver hair even in the distance, and yet also
wanting neither Vereesa nor even Falstad to follow him. Duncan and Molok had already perished
because of his quest; too many deaths weighed now on Rhonin's shoulders.

 The day aged. With the sun having descended nearly to the horizon, Rhonin began questioning
Deathwing's path. Not once had he seen, much less confronted an orc sentry, and surely Grim Batol still
had those. In fact, he had not even seen a single dragon. Either they no longer patrolled the skies here or
the wizard had wandered so far afield that he had gone outside their range.

 The sun sank lower. Even a second meal, apparently magicked into being by Deathwing, did not
assuage Rhonin. As the last light of day disappeared, he paused and tried to make out the landscape
ahead. So far, the only mountains he could see stood much too far away in the distance. It would take
him several days just to reach them, much less the peak where the orcs kept the dragons.

 Well, Deathwing had brought him to this point; Deathwing could explain now how he thought the human
could possibly reach his destination.
 Clutching the medallion, Rhonin, his eyes still on the distant mountains, spoke to the empty air. “I need to
talk with you.”

Speak . . .

 He had not entirely expected the method to work. So far, it had always been the dragon who had
contacted him, not the other way around. “You said this path would take me to the mountain, but if so,
it'll take far longer than I've time. I don't know how you expected me to reach the peak so quickly on
foot.”

As I said earlier, you were not meant to travel the entire way by so primitive a method. The vision I sent
of the path was so that you would ever remain secure in the knowledge that you had not become lost.

“Then how am I supposed to reach it?”

Patience. They should be with you soon.

They?

Remain where you are. That would be the best.

 “But—” Rhonin realized that Deathwing no longer spoke with him. The wizard once again contemplated
tearing the medallion from his throat and tossing it among the rocks, but where would that leave him?
Rhonin still had to get to the orcs' domain.

Who did Deathwing mean?

 And then he heard the sound, a sound like no other he had ever encountered. His initial thought was that
it might be a dragon, but, if so, a dragon with a terrible case of indigestion. Rhonin gazed into the
darkening sky, initially seeing nothing.

A brief flash of light caught his attention, a flash of light from above.

Rhonin swore, thinking that Deathwing had set him up to be captured by the orcs. Surely the light had
been some sort of torch or crystal in the hand of a dragonrider. The wizard summoned up a spell; he
would not go without a fight, however futile it might prove.

Then the light flashed again, this time longer. Rhonin briefly found himself illuminated, a perfect target for
whatever belching monster lurked in the dark heavens.

“Told you he was here!”

“I knew it all the time! I just wanted to see if you really did!”

“Liar! I knew and you didn't! I knew and you didn't!”

A frown formed on the young spellcaster's lips. What sort of dragon argued with itself in such inane,
highpitched tones?

“Watch that lamp!” cursed one of the voices.
 The light suddenly flipped away from Rhonin and darted up. The beam briefly shone on a huge oval
form— a point at the front—before flickering on to the rear, where the wizard made out a smoking,
belching device that turned a propeller at the end of the oval.

A balloon!Rhonin realized.A zeppelin!

 He had actually seen one of the remarkable creations before, during the height of the war. Astonishing,
gasfilled sacks so massive in size that they could actually lift an open carriage containing two or three
riders. In the war, they had been utilized for observation of enemy forces on both land and sea, yet what
amazed Rhonin most about them had not been their existence, but that they had been powered by
resources other than magic— by oil and water. A machine neither built by nor requiring spells drove the
balloon, a remarkable device that turned the propeller without the aid of manpower.

 The light returned to him, this time fixing on Rhonin with what seemed determination. The riders in the
flying balloon had him in sight now, and clearly had no intention of losing him again. Only then did the
fascinated mage recall exactly which race had proven to have both the ingenuity and touch of madness
necessary to dream of such a concept.

Goblins—and goblins served the Horde.

 He darted toward the largest rocks, hoping to lose himself long enough to at least come up with a spell
appropriate for flying balloons, but then a familiar voice echoed in his head.

Stay!

“I can't! There're goblins above! I've been spotted by their airship! They'll summon the orcs!”

You will not move!

Rhonin's feet refused to obey him any longer. Instead, they turned him back to face the unnerving
balloon and its even more unnerving pilots. The zeppelin descended to a point just above the hapless
wizard's head. A rope ladder dropped over the side of the observation carriage, barely missing Rhonin.

Your transport has arrived,Deathwing informed him.




TWELVE



Lord Prestor's ascension seems almost inevitable,” the shadowy form in the emerald sphere informed
Krasus. “He has an almost amazing gift of persuasion. You are correct; hemustbe a wizard.”

 Seated in the midst of his sanctum, Krasus eyed the globe. “Convincing the monarchs will require much
evidence. Their mistrust of the Kirin Tor grows with each day . . . and that can only also be the work of
this wouldbe king.”

The other speaker, the elder woman from the inner council, nodded back. “We've begun watching. The
only trouble is, this Prestor proves very elusive. He seems able to enter and leave his abode without us
knowing.”

Krasus pretended slight surprise. “How is that possible?”

“We don't know. Worse, his chateau is surrounded by some very nasty spellwork. We almost lost
Drenden to one of those surprises.”

That Drenden, the baritoned and bearded mage, had nearly fallen victim to one of Deathwing's traps
momentarily dismayed Krasus. Despite the man's bluster, the dragon respected the other mage's abilities.
Losing Drenden at a time like this could have proven costly.

“We must move with caution,” he urged. “I will speak with you again soon.”

“What are you planning, Krasus?”

“A search into this young noble's past.”

“You think you'll find anything?”

The hooded wizard shrugged. “We can only hope.”

 He dismissed her image, then leaned back to consider. Krasus regretted that he had to lead his
associates astray, if only for their own good. At least their intrusions into Deathwing's “mortal” affairs
would have the result of distracting the black. That would give Krasus a bit more time. He only prayed
that no one else would risk themselves as Drenden had done. The Kirin Tor would need their strength
intact if the other kingdoms turned on them.

 His own excursion to visit Malygos had ended with little-sense of satisfaction. Malygos had promised
only to consider his request. Krasus suspected that the great dragon believed he could deal with
Deathwing in his own sweet time. Little did the silver-blue leviathan realize that time no longer remained
for any of the dragons. If Deathwing could not be stopped now, he might never be.

Which left Krasus with one much undesired choice now.

 “I must do it. . . .” He had to seek out the other great ones, the other Aspects. Convince one of them,
and he might still gain Malygos's sworn aid.

 Yet, She of the Dreaming ever proved a most elusive figure . . . which meant that Krasus's best bet lay in
contacting the Lord of Time—whose servants had already rejected the wizard's requests more than
once.

Still, what else could he do but try again?

 Krasus rose, hurrying to a bench upon which many of the items of his calling stood arranged in vials and
flasks. He scanned row upon row of jars, eyes quickly passing chemicals and magical items that would
have left his counterparts in the Kirin Tor greatly envious, and more than a little curious as to how he
could have obtained many of the articles in question. If they ever realized just how long he had been
practicing the arts . . .

There! A small flask containing a single withered flower caused him to pause.

The Eon Rose. Found only in one place in all the world. Plucked by Krasus himself to give to his
mistress, his love. Saved by Krasus when the orcs stormed the lair and, to his disbelief, took her and the
others prisoner.

The Eon Rose. Five petals of astonishingly different hues surrounding a golden sphere in the center. As
Krasus lifted the top of the flask, a faint scent that suddenly recalled his adolescence wafted under his
nose. With some hesitation, he reached in, took hold of the faded bloom—

 —and marveled as it suddenly returned to its legendary brilliance the moment his tapering fingers
touched it.

 Fiery red. Emerald green. Snowy silver. Deep-sea blue. Midnight black. Each petal radiated such
beauty as artists only dreamed of. No other object could surpass its inherent beauty, no other flower
could match its wondrous scent.

Holding his breath for a moment, Krasuscrushedthe wondrous bloom.

 He let the fragments fall into his other hand. A tingle spread from his palms to his fingers, but the dragon
mage ignored it. Holding the remnants up high over his head, the wizard muttered words of power—then
threw what was left of the fabled rose to the floor.

 But as the crushed pieces touched the stone, they turned suddenly to sand, sand that spread across the
chamber floor, overwhelmed the chamber itself,washedacross the chamber, covering everything, eating
away everything . . .

. . . and leaving Krasus abruptly standing in the midst of an endless, swirling desert.

 Yet, no desert such as this had any mortal—or even Krasus himself, for that matter—ever witnessed, for
here lay scattered, as far as the eye could see, fragments of walls, cracked and scoured statues, rusted
weapons, and—the mage gaped—even the half-buried bones of some gargantuan beast that, in life, had
dwarfed even dragons. There were buildings, too, and although at first one might have thought they and
the relics around them all part of one vast civilization, a closer look revealed that no one structure truly
belonged with another. A teetering tower such as might have been built by humans in Lordaeron
overshadowed a domed building that surely had come from the dwarves. Some distance farther, an
arched temple, its roof caved in, hinted of the lost kingdom of Azeroth. Nearer to Krasus himself stood a
more dour domicile, the quarters of some orc chieftain.

 A ship large enough to carry a dozen men stood propped on a dune, the latter half of it buried under
sand. Armor from the reign of the first king of Stromgarde littered another smaller dune. The leaning
statue of an elven cleric seemed to say final prayers over both vessel and armor.

 An astonishing, improbable display that gave even Krasus pause. In truth, the sights before the wizard
resembled nothing more than some gargantuan deity's macabre collection of antiquities . . . a point not far
from fact.

None of these artifacts were native to this realm; in fact, no race, no civilization, had ever been spawned
here. All the wonders that stood before the wizard had been gathered quite meticulously and over a
period of countless centuries from other points all over the world. Krasus could scarcely believe what he
saw, for the effort alone staggered even his imagination. To bring such relics, so many of them so massive
or so delicate, to this place . . .

Yet, despite all of it, despite the spectacle before his eyes, an impatience began to build up as Krasus
waited. And waited. And waited more, with not even the slightest hint that anyone acknowledged his
presence.

His patience, already left ragged by the events of the past weeks, finally snapped.

 He fixed his gaze on the stony features of a massive statue part man, part bull, whose left arm thrust forth
as if demanding that the newcomer leave, and called out, “I know you are here, Nozdormu! I know it! I
would speak with you!”

 The moment the dragon mage finished, the wind whipped up, tossing sand all about and obscuring his
vision. Krasus stayed his ground as a full-fledged sandstorm suddenly buffeted him. The wind howled
around him, so loud that he had to cover his ears. The storm seemed determined to lift him up and throw
him far away, but the wizard fought it, using magic as well as physical effort to remain. He would not be
turned away, not without the opportunity to speak!

 At last, even the sandstorm appeared to realize that he would not be deterred. It swept away from him,
now focusing on a dune a short distance away. A funnel of dust arose, pushing higher and higher into the
sky.

 The funnel took on a shape . . . a dragon's shape. As large as, if not larger than Malygos, this sandy
creation moved, stretched dusty brown wings. Sand continued to add to the dimension of the behemoth,
but sand seemingly mixed with gold, for more and more the leviathan forming before Krasus glittered in
the blazing light of the desert sun.

 The wind died, yet not one grain of sand or gold broke from the draconic giant. The wings flapped hard,
the neck stretched. Eyelids opened, revealing gleaming gemstones the color of the sun.

“Korialstraszzzz . . .”the sandy behemoth practically spat. “You dare disturb my ressst? You dare
disssturb mypeace?”

“I dare because I must, o great Lord of Time!”

“Titles will not appeassse my wrath . . . would be best if you went . . .” The gemstones flared. “. . . and
went now!”

“No! Not until I speak to you of a danger to all dragons! To all creatures!”

 Nozdormu snorted. A cloud of sand bathed Krasus, but his spells kept it from affecting him. One could
never tell what magic might dwell within each and every grain in the domain of Nozdormu. One bit of
sand might be enough to ensure that the history of a dragon named Korialstrasz turned out never to have
happened. Krasus might simply cease to exist, unremembered even by his beloved mistress.

“Dragonssss, you say? Of what concern isss that to you? I see only one dragon here, and it isss certainly
not the mortal wizard Krasusss—not anymore! Away with you! I would return to my collection! You
wassste too much of my precious time already!” One wing swept protectively over the statue of the
man-bull. “Ssso much to gather, ssso much to catalog . . .”
 It suddenly infuriated Krasus that this, one of the greatest of the five Aspects, he through whom Time
itself coursed, this dragon cared not a whit what went on in the present or the future. Only his precious
collection of the world's past meant anything to the leviathan. He sent out his servants, his people, to
gather whatever they could find—all so that their master could surround himself with what had once been
and ignore both what was and what might be.

All so that he, in his own way, could ignore the passing of their kind just as Malygos did.

“Nozdormu!” he shouted, demanding the glittering sand dragon's attention again. “Deathwing lives!”

 To his horror, Nozdormu took in this terrible news with little change. The gold and brown behemoth
snorted once more, sending a second cloud assailing the tinier figure. “Yesss . . . and ssso?”

Taken aback, Krasus managed to blurt, “You—know?”

 “A question not at all worth anssswering. Now, if you've nothing more with which to further bother me, it
isss time for you to depart.” The dragon reared his head, bejeweled eyes flaring.

“Wait!” Forgoing any sense of dignity, the wizard waved his arms back and forth. To his relief,
Nozdormu paused, negating the spell he had been about to use to rid himself of this bothersome mite. “If
you know that the dark one lives, you know what he intends! How can you ignore that?”

 “Becaussse, asss with all things, even Deathwing will pass into time . . . even he will eventually be part . .
. of my collection. . . .”

“But if you joined—”

 “You've had your sssay.” The glittering sand dragon rose higher and as he did, the desert flew up,
adding further to his girth and form. Torn free by the winds, some of the smaller objects in Nozdormu's
bizarre collection joined with that sand, becoming, for the moment, a very part of the dragon. “Now
leave me be. . . .”

The winds now whipped up around Krasus—andonlyKrasus. Try as he might, this time the dragon
wizard could not hold his ground. He stumbled back, shoved hard time and time again by the ferocious
gusts.

“I came here for the sake ofallof us!” Krasus managed to shout.

“You should not have disssturbed my ressst. You should not have come at all. . . .” The glittering
gemstones flared. “In fact, that would have been bessst of all. . . .”

 A column of sand shot up from the ground, engulfing the helpless wizard. Krasus could see nothing else.
It grew stifling, impossible to breathe. He tried to cast a spell in order to save himself, but against the
might of one of the Aspects, against the Master of Time, even his substantial powers proved minuscule.

Bereft of air, Krasus finally succumbed. Consciousness fading, he slumped forward—

—and watched, in startlement, as the petals of the Eon Rose dropped to the stone floor of his sanctum
without any effect.
 The spell should have worked. He should have been transported to the realm of Nozdormu, Lord of the
Centuries. Just as Malygos embodied magic itself, so, too, did Nozdormu represent time and
timelessness. One of the most powerful of the five Aspects, he would have proven a powerful ally,
especially should Malygos suddenly choose to retreat into his madness. Without Nozdormu, Krasus's
hopes of success dwindled much.

 Kneeling, the mage picked up the petals and repeated the spell. For his troubles, Krasus was rewarded
only with a horrendous headache. How could that be, though? He had done everything right! The spell
should have worked—unless somehow Nozdormu had caught wind of the wizard's intention to plead
with him and had cast a spell preventing Krasus from entering the sandy realm.

 He swore. Without a chance to visit Nozdormu, he had no hope, however slight it might have been in the
first place, of convincing the powerful dragon to join his plan. That left only She of the Dreaming . . . the
most elusive of the Aspects, and the only one he had never, ever, spoken with in all his lengthy life.
Krasus did not even know how to contact her, for it had oft been said that Ysera lived not wholly in the
real world—that, to her, the dreams were the reality.

 The dreams were the reality?A desperate plan occurred to the wizard, one that, had it been suggested to
him by any of his counterparts, would have made Krasus break from his accustomed form and laugh
loud. How utterly ridiculous! How utterly hopeless!

But, as with Nozdormu, what other choice did he have?

 Turning back to his array of potions, artifacts, and powders, Krasus searched for a black vial. He found
it quickly, despite not having touched it in more than a century. The last time he had made use of it—it
had been to slay what had seemed unslayable. Now, however, he sought to only borrow one of its most
vicious traits, and hope that he did not measure wrong.

 Three drops on the tip of a single bolt had killed the Manta, the Behemoth of the Deep. Three drops had
slain a creature ten times the size and strength of a dragon. Like Deathwing, nearly all had believed the
Manta unstoppable.

Now Krasus intended to take some of the poison for himself.

“The deepest sleep, the deepest dreams . . .” he muttered to himself as he took the vial down. “That is
where she must be, where shehasto be.”

 From another shelf he removed a cup and a small flask of pure water. Measuring out a single swallow in
the cup, the dragon mage then opened the vial. With the greatest caution, he brought the open bottle to
the cup of water.

Three drops to slay, in seconds, the Manta. How many drops to assist Krasus on the most treacherous
of journeys?

Sleep and death . . . they were so very close in nature, more so than most realized. Surely he would find
Ysera there.

 The tiniest drop he could measure fell silently into the water. Krasus replaced the top on the vial, then
took up the cup.

“A bench,” he murmured. “Best to use a bench.”
One immediately formed behind him, a wellcushioned bench upon which the king of Lordaeron would
have happily slept. Krasus, too, intended to sleep well on it . . . perhaps forever.

He sat upon it, then raised the cup to his lips. Yet, before he could bring himself to drink what might be
his last, the dragon in human guise made one last toast.

“To you, my Alexstrasza,alwaysto you.”


***

 “There was someone here, all right,” Vereesa muttered, studying the ground. “One of them was human .
. . the other I can't be certain about.”

 “Pray tell, how do you know the difference?” asked Falstad, squinting. He could not tell one sign from
another. In fact, he could not evenseehalf of what the elf saw.

 “Look here. This boot print.” She indicated a curved mark in the dirt. “These are human-style boots,
tightfitting and uncomfortable.”

“I'll take your word. And the other—the one you can't identify?”

The ranger straightened. “Well, clearly there are no signs of a dragon being around, but there are tracks
over here that match nothing I know.”

She knew that, once again, Falstad could not see what to her sharp eyes screamed out their curious
presence. The dwarf did his best, though, studying the peculiar striations in the earth. “You mean these,
my elven lady?”

 The marks appeared to flow toward where the human—surelyRhonin—had at one time or another
stood. Yet, they were not footprints, not even pawprints. To her eyes, it looked as if something had
floated, dragging something else behind it.

 “This gets us no closer than the first spot this little green beast brought us to!” Falstad seized Kryll by the
scruff of his neck. The goblin had both hands tied behind him and a rope around his waist, the other end
of which had been tied around the neck of the gryphon. Despite that, neither Vereesa nor the wild dwarf
trusted that their unwilling companion might not somehow escape. Falstad especially kept his eye on
Kryll. “Well? Now what? 'Tis becoming clear to me that you're leading us around! I doubt you've even
seen the wizard!”

 “I have, I have, yes, I have!” Kryll smiled wide, possibly in the hope of swaying his captors, but a
goblin's toothy grin did little to impress those outside of their race. “Described him, didn't I? You know I
saw him, don't you?”

Vereesa noticed the gryphon sniffing at something hidden behind a bit of foliage. Using her sword, she
prodded at the spot, then dragged out the object in question.

On the tip of her sword hung a small, empty wine sack. The elf brought it to her nose. A heavenly
bouquet wafted past. The elf briefly closed her eyes.
Falstad misread her expression. “As bad as all that? Must be dwarven ale!”

“On the contrary, I have not come across such a fabulous aroma even at the table of my lord back in
Quel'Thalas! Whatever wine filled this sack far outshone even the best of his stock.”

“Which means to my feeble mind—?”

Dropping the sack, Vereesa shook her head. “I do not know, but somehow I cannot help thinking that it
means that Rhoninwashere, if only for a time.”

 Her companion gave her a skeptical look. “My elven lady, is it possible that you simply wish it to be
true?”

“Can you answer me who else might have been in this region, drinking wine fit for kings?”

“Aye! The dark one, after he'd sucked the marrow from the bones of your wizard!”

 His words made her shiver, but she remained steadfast in her belief. “No. If Deathwing brought him this
far, he had some other reason than as a repast!”

 “Possible, I suppose.” Still holding onto the goblin, Falstad glanced up at the darkening sky. “If we hope
to get much farther before night, we'd best be getting on our way.”

Vereesa touched the tip of her blade against Kryll's throat. “We need to deal with this one first.”

“What's to deal with? Either we take him with us, or do the world a favor and leave it with one less
goblin to worry about!”

“No. I promised I would release him.”

The dwarf 's heavy brow furrowed. “I don't think that's wise.”

“Nevertheless, I made that promise.” She stared hard at him, knowing that if he understood elves as
much as he should, Falstad would see the sense in not pursuing this argument.

 Sure enough, the gryphon-rider nodded—albeit with much reluctance. “Aye, 'tis as you say. You made
a promise and I'll not be the one to try to sway you.” Not quite under his breath, he added, “Not with
only one lifetime to me . . .”

Satisfied, Vereesa expertly cut the bonds around Kryll's wrists, then removed the loop from his waist.
The goblin fairly bounced around, so overjoyed did he seem by his release.

“Thank you, my benevolent mistress, thank you!”

 The ranger turned the tip of the sword back toward the creature's throat. “Before you go, though, a few
last questions. Do you know the path to Grim Batol?”

Falstad did not take this question well. Brow arched, he muttered, “What're you thinking?”

She purposely ignored his question. “Well?”
 Kryll's eyes had gone wide the moment she asked. The goblin looked ashen—or at least a paler shade
of green. “No one goes to Grim Batol, benevolent mistress! Orcs there and dragons, too! Dragons eat
goblins!”

“Answer my question.”

He swallowed, then finally bobbed his oversized head up and down. “Yes, mistress, I know the
way—do you think the wizard is there?”

“You can't be serious, Vereesa,” Falstad rumbled, so upset he had for once called her by name. “If your
Rhonin is in Grim Batol, then he's lost to us!”

 “Perhaps . . . perhaps not. Falstad, I think he alwayswantedto reach that place, and not simply to
observe the orcs. I think he has some other reason . . . although what it could have to do with Deathwing,
I cannot say.”

“Maybe he plans on releasing the Dragonqueen singlehandedly!” the gryphon-rider returned with a snort
of derision. “He's a mage, after all, and everyone knows that they're allmad!”

An absolutely absurd notion—but for a moment it gave Vereesa pause. “No . . . it could not be that.”

 Kryll, meanwhile, seemed to be trying to think really hard about something, something that did not at all
look to please him. At last, his face screwed up in an expression of distaste, he muttered, “Mistress
wants to go to Grim Batol?”

The ranger considered it. It went even beyond her oath, but she had to push forward. “Yes. Yes, I do.”

“Now see here, my—”

 “You do not have to come with me if you do not want to, Falstad. I thank you for your aid thus far, but I
can proceed from here alone.”

The dwarf shook his head vehemently. “And leave you alone in the middle of orc territory with only this
untrustworthy little wretch? Nay, my elven lady! Falstad will not leave a fair damsel, however capable a
warrior she might also be, on her own! We go together!”

In truth, she appreciated his company here. “You may turn back at any time, though; remember that.”

“Only if you're with me.”

She glanced again at Kryll. “Well? Can you tell me the way?”

 “Cannot tell you, mistress.” More and more the spindly creature's expression soured. “Best . . . best if I
show you, instead.”

This surprised her. “I granted you your freedom, Kryll—”

 “For which this poor wretch is so eternally grateful, mistress . . . but only one path to Grim Batol offers
certainty, and without me,” he dared look slightly egotistical, “neither elf nor dwarf will find it.”

“We've got my mount, you little rodent! We'll simply fly over—”
 “In a land of dragons?” The goblin chuckled, a hint of madness there. “Best to fly right into their mouths
and be done with it, then. . . . No, to enter Grim Batol—if that is truly what mistress desires—you'll have
to follow me.”

 Falstad would not hear of that and immediately protested, but Vereesa saw no choice but to do as the
goblin suggested. Kryll had led them true so far, and although she did not, of course, trust him entirely,
she felt certain that she would recognize if he tried to lead them astray. Besides, clearly the goblin wanted
nothing to do with Grim Batol himself, or else why would he have been where they had found him? Any
of his kind who served the orcs would have been in the mountain fortress, not wandering the dangerous
wilds of Khaz Modan.

And if he could lead her yet to Rhonin . . .

 Having convinced herself that she chose correctly, Vereesa faced the dwarf. “I will go with him, Falstad.
It is the best—the only choice—I have.”

His broad shoulders slumping, Falstad sighed. “'Tis against my better judgment, but, aye, I'll go with
you—if only to keep an eye on this one, so I can lop off his traitorous head if I prove right!”

“Kryll, must we go on foot the entire way?”

The misshapen little creature mused for a moment, then replied, “No. Can travel some distance with
gryphon.” He gave her a smile full of teeth. “Know just where beast should land!”

 Despite his apparent misgivings, Falstad started for the gryphon. “Just tell us where to go, you little
rodent. The sooner we're there, the sooner you can be on your way. . . .”

 The goblin's weight added little to the powerful animal's burden, and soon the gryphon was on its way.
Falstad, of course, sat in front, the better to control his mount. Kryll sat behind him with Vereesa taking
up the rear. The elf had resheathed her sword and now held a dagger ready just in case their undesired
companion attempted something.

 Yet, although the goblin's directions were not always the clearest, Vereesa saw nothing that hinted of
duplicity. He kept them near to the ground and always guided them along paths that steered them from
the open areas. In the distance, the mountains of Grim Batol grew nearer. A sense of anxiety spread
through the ranger as she realized that she approached her goal, but that anxiousness was tempered by
the fact that, even now, she had come across no sign of either Rhonin or the black dragon. Surely this
close to the mountain fortress the orcs would have been able to sight such a leviathan.

And as if thinking of dragons allowed one to conjure them up, Falstad suddenly pointed east, where a
massive form rose into the sky.

“Big!” he called. “Big and red as fresh blood! Scout from Grim Batol!”

Kryll immediately acted. “Down there!” the goblin pointed at a ravine. “Many places to hide—even for a
gryphon!”

 With little other choice, the dwarf obeyed, guiding his mount earthward. The dragon's form grew larger
and larger, but Vereesa noted that the crimson beast also headed in a more northerly direction, possibly
to the very northern border of Khaz Modan, where the last desperate forces of the Horde sought to hold
back the Alliance. That made her wonder about the situation there. Had the humans begun their advance
at last? Could the Alliance itself even now be halfway to Grim Batol?

If so, it would still be too late for her purposes. Yet, the nearing presence of the Alliance might aid in one
way, if it made the orcs here concentrate on matters other than their own immediate defenses.

The gryphon alighted in the ravine, the animal instinctively seeking the shadows. No coward, the gryphon
had the sense to know when to choose a battle.

 Vereesa and the others leapt off, finding their own places to hide. Kryll pressed himself against one
rocky wall, his expression that of open terror. The ranger actually found herself feeling some sympathy
for him.

 They waited for several minutes, but the dragon did not fly by. After what seemed far too long a time,
the impatient ranger decided to see for herself if the beast had changed direction. Getting a proper grip
on the rock, she climbed up.

The elf saw nothing in the darkening sky, not even a speck. In fact, Vereesa suspected that they could
have departed this ravine long before, if only one of them had dared look.

 “No sign?” whispered Falstad, climbing up beside her. For a dwarf, he proved himself quite nimble
crawling up the side.

“We are clear. Very much so.”

“Good! Unlike my hill cousins, I've no taste for holes in the ground!” He started down. “All right, Kryll!
The danger's done! You can peel yourself—”

The moment his voice cut off, Vereesa jerked her head around. “What is it?”

“That damned spawn of a frog's gone!” He scrambled down the rest of the way. “Vanished like a
will-o”-the-wisp!”

 Dropping down as safely as she could, the ranger joined Falstad in scanning the immediate area. Sure
enough, despite the fact that they should have been able to see the goblin's retreating figure in either
direction, not one sign of Kryll existed. Even the gryphon acted baffled, as if it, too, had not even noticed
that the spindly creature had run off.

“How could he have just disappeared?”

“Wish I knew that myself, my dear elven lady! A neat trick!”

“Can your gryphon hunt him down?”

“Why not just let him go? We're better off without him!”

“Because I—”

 The ground underneath her feet suddenly softened, broke apart. The elf 's boots sank deep within
seconds.
 Thinking that she had walked into mud, she tried to pull free. Instead, Vereesa only sank deeper, and at
an alarming rate. It almost felt as if she were beingpulleddown.

 “What in the name of the Aerie—?” Falstad, too, had sunk deep, but in the dwarf 's case that meant he
suddenly stood up to his knees in dirt. Like the ranger, he attempted to extricate himself, only to
completely fail.

Vereesa grabbed for the nearest rock face, trying to seize hold. For a moment, she succeeded,
managing to slow her progress downward. Then, something powerful seemed to take hold of her ankles,
pulling with such force that the ranger could no longer keep her grip.

 Above them she heard a panicked squawk. Unlike Vereesa and the dwarf, the gryphon had managed to
pull up in time to avoid being dragged under. The animal fluttered above Falstad's head, trying, it seemed,
to get a grip on its master. However, as the beast dropped lower, columns of dirt suddenly shot up,
trying, Vereesa realized in horror, to seize the mount. The gryphon narrowly escaped, forced now to fly
up so high that the animal could not possibly aid either warrior.

Which left Vereesa with no notion as to how to escape.

 Already the earth came up to her waist. The thought of being buried alive set even the elf on edge, yet, in
comparison to Falstad's predicament, hers seemed slightly less immediate. The dwarf 's shorter stature
meant that he already had trouble keeping his head above ground. Try as he might, even the mighty
strength of the gryphon-rider could not help him. He grabbed furiously at the soft earth, ripping up
handfuls that did him no good whatsoever.

In desperation, the ranger reached out. “Falstad! My hand! Reach for it!”

He tried. They both tried. The gap between them had grown too great, however. In growing horror,
Vereesa watched as her struggling companion was inevitably pulled under.

“My—” was all he managed before disappearing from sight.

 Now buried up to her chest, she froze for a moment, staring at the slight mound of dirt that was all that
remained to mark his passage. The ground there did not even stir. No last thrust of a hand, no wild
movement underneath.

“Falstad . . .” she murmured.

 Renewed force at her ankles tugged her deeper. As the dwarf had done, Vereesa snatched at the earth
around her, digging deep valleys with her fingers but doing herself no good. Her shoulders sank in. She
lifted her head skyward. Of the gryphon she saw no sign, but another figure, so very familiar, now leaned
out from a small crevice that the elf had missed earlier.

Even in the waning light, she could see Kryll's toothy smile.

 “Forgive me, my mistress, but the dark one insists that no one interfere, and so he left me the task of
seeing to your deaths! A menial bit of work and one undeserving of a clever mind such as mine, but my
master does, after all, have very large teeth and so sharp claws! I certainly couldn't refuse him, could I?”
His grin stretched wider. “I hope you understand. . . .”

“Damn you—”
The ground swallowed her up. Dirt filled the elf 's mouth, then, seemingly, her hungry lungs.

She blacked out.




THIRTEEN



The goblin airship floated among the clouds, now surprisingly silent as it neared its destination.

 At the bow of the vessel, Rhonin kept a watchful eye on the two figures guiding him toward his destiny.
The goblins darted back and forth, adjusting gauges and muttering among themselves. How such a mad
race could have created this wonder had been beyond him. Each moment, the airship seemed destined to
destroy itself, yet the goblins ever managed to right matters.

 Deathwing had not spoken to Rhonin since telling him to board. Knowing that the dragon would have
made him do so whether he desired to or not, the wizard had reluctantly obeyed, climbing up into the
airship and trying not to think what would happen if it all came tumbling down.

 The goblins were Voyd and Nullyn, and they had built this vessel themselves. They were great inventors,
sotheysaid, and had offered their services to the wondrous Deathwing. Of course, they had said the last
with just a hint of sarcasm in their tones. Sarcasm and fear.

“Where are you taking me?” he had asked.

 This question had caused his two pilots to eye him as if he had lost all sense. “To Grim Batol, of course!”
spouted one, who seemed to have twice the teeth of any goblin Rhonin had ever had the misfortune to
come across. “To Grim Batol!”

 The wizard had known that, of course, but he had wanted the exact location where they intended to
drop him. Rhonin did not at all trust the pair not to leave him in the middle of an orc encampment.
Unfortunately, before Rhonin could ask, Voyd and his partner had been forced to respond to an
emergency, in this case a spout of steam erupting from the main tank. The goblins' airship utilized both oil
and water in order to run, and if some component involving one was not breaking down at a critical
moment, then something involving the otherwas.

It had made for a fairly sleepless night, even for one such as Rhonin.

 The clouds through which they flew had grown so thick that it felt as if the mage journeyed through a
dense fog. Had he not known at what altitude he sailed, Rhonin might have imagined that this vessel
traversed not the sky, but rather the open sea. In truth, both journeys had much in common, including the
danger of crashing on the rocks. More than once, Rhonin had watched as mountains had suddenly
materialized on either side of the tiny ship, a few coming perilously close. Yet, while he had prepared for
the worst, the goblins had kept on with their tinkering—and even occasionally napping—without so much
as a glimpse at the near-disasters around them.

 Daylight had long come, but the deeply overcast weather kept it nearly as dark as late dusk. Voyd
seemed to be using some sort of magnetic compass to guide them along, but the one time Rhonin had
studied it, he had noticed that it had a tendency to shift without warning. In the end, the wizard had
concluded that the goblins flew by sheer luck more than any sense of direction.

 Early on, he had estimated the length of the trip, but for some reason, even though Rhonin felt that they
should have reached the fortress by now, his two companions kept assuring him that they still had quite
some time left before arrival. Gradually he came to the suspicion that the airship flew about in circles,
either due to the faulty compass or some intention on the goblins' parts.

 Although he sought to remain focused on his quest, Rhonin found Vereesa slipping into his thoughts more
and more. If she lived, she followed him. He knew her well enough. The knowledge dismayed him as
much as it pleased. How could the elf possibly learn about the airship? She might end up wandering Khaz
Modan or, even worse, assume rightly and head straight to Grim Batol.

 His hand tightened on the rail. “No . . .” he muttered to himself. “No . . . she wouldn't do that . . . she
can't . . .”

 Duncan's ghost already haunted him, just as those of the men from his previous mission did. Even Molok
stood with the dead, the wild dwarf glowering in condemnation. Rhonin could already imagine Vereesa
and even Falstad joining their ranks, empty eyes demanding to know why the wizard lived after their
sacrifices.

It was a question that Rhonin often asked of himself.

“Human?”

 He looked up to see Nullyn, the more squat of the pair, standing just beyond arm's length from him.
“What?”

“Time to prepare to disembark.” The goblin gave him a wide, cheerful smile.

“We're here?” Rhonin dredged himself up from his dark thoughts and peered into the mist. He saw
nothing but more mist, even below. “I don't see anything.”

 Beyond Nullyn, Voyd, also grinning merrily, took the rope ladder and tossed the unattached end over
the side. The slapping of the rope against the hull represented the only sound the wizard heard. Clearly
the ladder had not touched bottom anywhere.

“This is it. This is the place, honest and truly, master wizard!” Voyd pointed toward the rail. “Look for
yourself!”

 Rhonin did . . . with care. It would not have struck him as unlikely that the goblins might use their
combined strength to toss him over the side despite Deathwing's desires. “I see nothing.”

Nullyn looked apologetic. “It is the clouds, master wizard! They obscure things to your human eyes! We
goblins have much sharper vision. Below us is a very soft, very safe ledge! Climb down the ladder and
we'll gently drop you off, you'll see!”
 The mage hesitated. He wanted nothing more than to be rid of the zeppelin and its crew, but to simply
take the goblins' word about whether any land actually lay close below—

 Without warning, Rhonin's left hand suddenly reached out, catching Nullyn by surprise. The mage's
fingers closed around the goblin's throat, squeezing hard despite Rhonin's attempt to pull back.

A voice not his own, but exceedingly familiar to the human, hissed,“I gave the command that no tricksss
were to be played, no acts of treachery performed, worm.”

“M-mercy, grand and g-glorious m-master!” choked Nullyn. “Only a game! Only a g—” He managed
no more, Rhonin's grip having tightened more.

Forcing his gaze down as much as he could, the helpless wizard saw the black stone in the medallion
giving off a faint glow. Once more Deathwing had used it to seize control of his human “ally.”

“Game?”murmured Rhonin's lips.“You like games? I have a game for you to play, worm. . . .”

With little effort, the human's arm shifted, dragging a struggling Nullyn toward the rail.

 Voyd let out a squeak and scurried back toward the engine. Rhonin struggled against Deathwing's
control, certain that the black leviathan intended to drop Nullyn to his doom. While the wizard had no
love for the goblin, neither did he want the creature's blood on his hands— even if the dragon presently
made use of them.

“Deathwing!” he snapped, belatedly surprised that his lips were his own for the moment. “Deathwing!
Don't do this!”

Would you rather they had led you into their little ploy, human?came the voice in his head.The drop
would not have been at all pleasant for one who cannot fly. . . .

“I'm not that much of a fool! I'd no intention of climbing over the rail, not on a goblin's word! You
wouldn't have bothered saving me in the first place if you thought me that addled!”

True . . .

 “And I'm not without power of my own.” Rhonin raised his other hand, which Deathwing had not
deemed necessary to use. Muttering a few words, the wizard produced a flame above his index finger, a
flame which he then directed toward the already panicked face of Nullyn. “There are other ways to teach
a goblin lessons in trust.”

Barely able to breathe and unable to flee, Nullyn's eyes widened and the spindly creature tried to shake
his head. “B-be good! Only meant to t-tease! Never meant h-harm!”

“But you'll drop me off on a proper place, right? One of which both Deathwing and I would approve?”

Nullyn could only manage a squeak.

“This flame I can make larger.” The magical fire sprouted to twice its previous length. “Enough to burn a
hull even from below, maybe set off flammable oil . . .”

“N-no tricks! N-no tricks! Promise!”
 “You see?” the crimson-tressed mage asked his unseen companion. “No need to drop him over the
side. Besides, you might want to make use of him again.”

 In reply, Rhonin's possessed hand abruptly released its hold on Nullyn, who dropped to the deck with a
thud. The goblin lay there for several seconds, trying desperately to gain his breath back.

Your choice . . . wizard.

The human exhaled, then, glancing at Voyd—who still cowered by the engine—called out, “Well? Get
us to the mountain!”

 Voyd immediately obeyed, frantically turning levers and checking gauges. Nullyn finally recovered
enough to join his partner, the beaten goblin not once glancing back.

 Extinguishing the magical flame, Rhonin peered over the rail again. Now at last he could make out some
sort of formation, hopefully the crags of Grim Batol. He assumed from Deathwing's earlier words and
images that the dragon still wanted him set down directly on the peak, preferably somewhere near a gap
leading inside. Surely the goblins knew this. Any other choice they made at this point would mean that
they had still not learned the folly of crossing either their distant master or the wizard. Rhonin prayed that
it would not be so. He doubted that Deathwing would allow the goblins to escape punishment twice.

 They began to draw near to one peak in particular, one that Rhonin had vague memories of, even though
he had never been to Grim Batol before. With growing eagerness he leaned forward for a better look.
Surely this had to be the mountain from the vision that Deathwing had forced upon him. He searched for
telltale signs—a recognizable outcropping or a familiar crevice.

 There! The very same narrow cave mouth from his dizzying journey of the mind. Barely large enough for
a man to stand in, provided he managed the terrifying climb up several hundred feet of sheer rock. Yet,
still it would serve. Rhonin could scarcely wait, more than happy to be rid of the mischievous goblins and
their outrageous flying machine.

 The rope ladder still dangled free, ready for his use. The wary mage waited while Voyd and his partner
maneuvered their ship nearer and nearer. Whatever his previous thoughts about the zeppelin, Rhonin had
to admit that now the goblins controlled it with a measure of accuracy he found admirable.

The ladder clattered slightly against the rock wall just to the left of the cave.

“Can you keep it steady here?” he called to Nullyn.

A nod was all he received from the still fearful pilot, but it satisfied Rhonin. No more tricks. Even if they
did not fear him, they certainly feared the long reach of Deathwing.

Taking a deep breath, Rhonin crawled over the side. The ladder wobbled dangerously, slapping him
more than once against the side of the mountain. Ignoring the shock of each strike, the wizard hurried as
best he could to the bottom rung.

The slim ledge of the cave stood just a little under him, but although the goblins had the zeppelin
positioned as precisely as they could, the high mountain winds kept twisting Rhonin away from safety.
Three times he tried to get his footing, and three times the wind dragged him away, leaving his foot
dangling hundreds of feet in the air.
 Worse, as the current grew stronger, the airship, too, began to shift, sometimes drawing away a few
critical inches. The voices of the two goblins rose in frantic argument, although the actual words were lost
to the struggling mage.

He would have to risk jumping. With conditions as they were, casting a spell would be too chancy.
Rhonin would have to rely on physical skill alone—not his first choice.

 The airship veered without warning, slapping him hard against the rock. Rhonin let out a gasp, barely
managing to hang on. If he did not abandon the ladder soon, the next collision might just be enough to
stun him and cause a fatal loss of grip.

 Taking a deep breath, the battered wizard studied the distance between himself and the ledge. The
ladder rocked to and fro, threatening again to toss him hard against the rock.

Rhonin waited until it brought him near the ledge— then threw himself toward the cave.

With a painful grunt, he came down on the slim ledge. His feet momentarily slipped, one finding no
purchase whatsoever. The wizard scrambled to pull himself forward, finally making progress.

 When at last he felt secure enough, Rhonin dropped to the ground, panting. It took him a few seconds to
regain his breath, at which point he rolled onto his back.

Beyond, Voyd and Nullyn had apparently just realized that they had finally rid themselves of their
unwanted passenger. The goblin airship began to pull away, the rope ladder still dangling from the side.

Rhonin's hand suddenly shot up, his index finger pointing toward the fleeing vessel.

He opened his mouth to scream, knowing what would happen next.“Nooo!”

The same words he had spoken earlier to create the flickering flame over his hand now erupted from his
mouth, but this time they were not spoken by the wizard himself.

 A stream of pure fire greater than any the horrified spellcaster had ever summoned shot forth—directly
toward the airship and the unsuspecting goblins.

The flames engulfed the zeppelin. Rhonin heard screams.

The airship exploded as its stockpile of oil ignited.

As the few remaining fragments plunged from the sky, Rhonin's arm dropped to his side.

Drawing in what breath he had, the mage snapped, “You shouldn't have done that!”

 The winds will keep the explosion from being heard,replied the cold voice.And the pieces will fall to a
deep valley little used. Besides, the orcs are used to the goblins destroying themselves in the midst of their
experiments. You need not fear discovery . . . my friend.

 Rhonin had not been concerned about his own safety at that moment, only the lives of the two goblins.
Death in combat was one thing; punishment such as the black dragon had meted out to his two rebellious
servants was another.
 You would do yourself better to continue on into the cave,Deathwing continued.The elements outside
are hardly fit for you.

 Not at all mollified by the leviathan's attempt at concern, Rhonin yet obeyed. He had no desire to be
swept off the ledge by the ever-increasing winds. For better or worse, the dragon had brought him this
close to his goal—one that he could now admit to himself he had suspected he might never reach on his
own. Deep down, the wizard had believed all along he would perish—hopefully, at least,afterhe had
made amends. Now, perhaps he had a chance. . . .

 At that moment a monstrous sound greeted Rhonin, a sound he recognized instantly. A dragon, of
course, and one young and fit. Dragons and orcs. They awaited him in the depths of the mountain,
awaited the lone mage.

Reminded him that he might yet die, just as he had originally imagined. . . .


The human was strong. Stronger than imagined.

 Clad once more in the guise of Lord Prestor, Deathwing considered the pawn he had chosen. Usurping
the wizard that the Kirin Tor had sent on this absurdly impossible quest had seemed the simplest thing.
He would turn their folly into victory—buthisvictory. This Rhonin would do that for him, although not in
the way the mortal expected.

Yet the wizard showed much more defiance than Deathwing had assumed possible. Strong of will, this
one. A good thing that he would perish in the course of matters; such strong will bred strong
wizards—like Medivh. Only one name among humans had the black leviathan ever respected, and that
had been Medivh's. Mad as a goblin—not to mention as unpredictable as one—he had wielded power
unbelievable. Not even Deathwing would have faced him willingly.

 But Medivh was dead—and the ebony leviathan believed that to be the case despite the recent rumors
to the contrary. No other wizard came anywhere near to having the mad one's skills, and never would, if
Deathwing had his way.

 Yet if Rhonin would not obey him blindly—as the monarchs of the Alliance did—he would obey out of
the knowledge that the dragon watched his every move. The two insipid goblins had made for an object
lesson. Perhaps they had only planned to put terror into the heart of their passenger, but Deathwing had
not had time for such foolishness. He had warned Kryll to choose a pair who would fulfill their mission
without any nonsense. When the chief goblin had completed his own tasks, Deathwing would speak to
him about his choices. The black dragon was not at all pleased.

 “You had better not fail, little toad,” he hissed. “Or your brethren on board the airship will have
considered themselves fortunate compared to the fate I will deal you. . . .”

 He dropped all thought of the goblin. Lord Prestor had an important meeting with King Terenas . . .
about the Princess Calia.

 Clad in the finest suit to be found among any of the nobles of the land, Deathwing admired himself in the
lengthy mirror in the front corridor of his chateau. Yes, every inch a future king. Had humans carried
within them even a shred of the dignity and power that he possessed, the dragon might have thought to
spare them. However, what stared back at him represented to Deathwing the perfection that the mortals
could never even hope to attain. He did them a favor by ending their miserable existences.

“Ssssoon,” he whispered in promise to himself. “Ssssoon.”

 His carriage took him directly to the palace, where the guards saluted and immediately bid him enter. A
servant met Deathwing inside the front hall, begging his pardon for the king not being there personally to
greet him. Now fully into his role as the young noble who sought only peace between all parties, the
dragon pretended no annoyance, smiling as he asked the human to lead him to where Terenas desired
him to wait. He had expected the king not to be ready for him, especially if Terenas still had to explain to
his young daughter her chosen future.

 With all opposition to his ascension swept aside and the throne only days from his grasp, Deathwing had
hit upon what he felt the perfect addition to his plans. How much better to strengthen his hold than to wed
the daughter of one of the most powerful of the kingdoms in the Alliance? Of course, not all of the
reigning monarchs had had viable choices. In fact, at this moment in time, only Terenas and Daelin
Proudmoore had daughters either single or beyond infancy. Jaina Proudmoore, however, was much too
young and, from what the dragon had so far researched, possibly already too difficult to control, or else
he might have waited for her. No, Terenas's daughter would do just fine.

Calia still remained at least two years away from marriage, but two years hardly mattered to the ageless
dragon. By that time not only would the others of his kind be either under his domination or dead, but
Deathwing would have maneuvered himself into a political position in which he could truly begin
undermining the foundation of the Alliance. What the brutish orcs had failed to do from without—he
would do from within.

 The servant opened a door. “If you'll wait within, my lord, I'm sure His Majesty will be with you
shortly.”

 “Thank you.” Caught up in his reverie, Deathwing did not notice that he had two new companions
awaiting him until just after the door had shut behind him.

The cloaked and hooded figures bowed their shadowed heads slightly in his direction.

“Our greetings, Lord Prestor,” rumbled the bearded one.

Deathwing fought back the frown nearly descending upon his mouth. He had expected to confront the
Kirin Tor, but not in the palace of Terenas. The enmity the dragon had magically built up among the
various rulers toward the wizards of Dalaran should have prevented the latter from daring to visit.

“My greetings to you, sir and madam.”

The second mage, old for a female of the race, returned, “We had hoped to meet you sooner than this,
my lord. Your reputation has spread throughout the kingdoms of the Alliance . . . especially in Dalaran.”

 The magic wielded by these wizards kept their features obscured for the most part, and although with
but a single action Deathwing could have pierced their veils, the dragon chose not to do so. He already
knew this pair, albeit not by name. The bearded one had a familiar feel to his aura, as if Deathwing and
the wizard had recently come into contact. The false noble suspected that this mage had been responsible
for at least one of the two major attempts to break through the protective spells around the chateau.
Considering the potency of those spells, it surprised Deathwing a little that the man still lived, much less
confronted him now.
“And the reputation of the Kirin Tor is known to all as well,” he replied.

“And becoming more known with each day . . . but not in the way we wish, I must say.”

She hinted of his handiwork. Deathwing found no threat there. By this time, they suspected him a rogue
wizard—powerful but not nearly the threat he truly presented.

 “I had expected to meet His Majesty here alone,” he said, turning the conversation to his advantage.
“Has Dalaran some business with Lordaeron?”

 “Dalaran seeks to keep abreast of situations important to all kingdoms of the Alliance,” the woman
replied. “Something a bit more difficult of late, due to our not being notified of major summits between
members.”

 Deathwing calmly walked over to the side table, where Terenas always kept a few bottles of his best on
hand for waiting guests. Lordaeron wine represented in his mind the only worthwhile export the kingdom
offered. He poured a small amount in one of the jeweled goblets nearby. “Yes, I spoke with His
Majesty, urging him to request you join in the deliberations over Alterac, but he seemed adamant about
leaving you out of them.”

“We know the outcome, regardless,” huffed the bearded man. “Congratulations are in order for you,
Lord Prestor.”

Not once had they offered their names, nor had he offered his. Yes, they truly kept an eye on him—as
much as Deathwing allowed, that is.

 “It came as a surprise to me, I must tell you. All I ever hoped was to help keep the Alliance from falling
apart after Lord Perenolde's unfortunate behavior.”

“Yes, a terrible thing that. One would've never thought it of the man. I knew him when he was younger.
A bit timid, but didn't seem the traitorous type.”

The elder female suddenly spoke up. “Your former homeland is somewhere not too distant from
Alterac, is it not, Lord Prestor?”

For the first time, Deathwing felt a twinge of annoyance. This game no longer pleased him. Did she
know?

 Before he could answer, the grandly decorated door on the opposite side of the entrance opened and
King Terenas, his mood clearly not at all pleasant, barged inside. A blond, cherubic boy barely more than
a toddler followed behind, clearly trying to get his father's attention. However, Terenas took one look at
the two shadowy wizards and the frown on his face deepened further.

 He turned to the child. “Run along back to your sister, Arthas, and try to calm her. I'll be with you as
soon as I can, I promise.”

Arthas nodded and, with a curious glance at his father's visitors, headed back through the door.

Terenas shut the door behind his son, then instantly whirled on the mages. “I thought I told the
major-domo to inform you that I've no time for you today! If Dalaran has any claims or protests to make
concerning my handling of Alliance matters, they can send a formal writ through our ambassador there!
Now,good day!”

 The pair seemed unmoved. Deathwing held back a triumphant smile. His hold on the king remained
strong even when the dragon had to deal with other matters, such as Rhonin.

 Thinking of his newest pawn, Deathwing hoped that the wizards would take Terenas's forceful dismissal
to heart and leave. The sooner they were gone, the sooner he could get back to checking on their
younger counterpart.

 “We'll be going, Your Majesty,” rumbled the male spellcaster. “But we've been empowered to tell you
that the council hopes you'll see reason on this before long. Dalaran has always been a steadfast, loyal
ally.”

“When it chooses to be.”

Both mages ignored the monarch's harsh statement. Turning to Deathwing, the female said, “Lord
Prestor, it has been an honor to meet you face-to-face at last. I trust it will not be the final time.”

 “We shall see.” She made no attempt to extend her hand and he did not encourage it. So. They had
warned him that they would continue to watch him. No doubt the Kirin Tor believed this would make him
more cautious, even uncertain, but the black dragon only found their threats laughable. Let them waste
their time crouching over scrying spheres or trying to convince the rulers of the Alliance to see reason. All
they would gain by their efforts would be the further enmity of the other humans—which would work just
perfectly for Deathwing.

Bowing, the two mages retreated from the chamber. Out of respect for the king, they did not simply
vanish, as he knew they could. No, they would wait until back in their own embassy, out of sight of
untrusting eyes. Even now, the Kirin Tor took care with appearances around others.

Not that it would matter in the long run.

 When the wizards had at last gone, King Terenas began speaking. “My most humble apologies for that
scene, Prestor! The very nerve of them! They barge into the palace as if Dalaran and not Lordaeron
ruled here! This time they go too far—”

 He froze in mid-sentence as Deathwing raised a hand toward him. After glancing at both doors in order
to assure himself that no one would come running in and find the king bewitched, the false noble stepped
to a window overlooking the palace grounds and the kingdom beyond. Deathwing waited patiently,
watching the gates through which all visitors passed in and out of Terenas's royal residence.

 The two wizards stepped into sight, heading away. Their heads leaned toward one another as they
engaged in urgent yet clearly private conversation with one another.

 The dragon touched the expensive glass plate on the window with his index finger, drawing two circles
there, circles that glowed deep red. He muttered a single word.

The glass in one of the circles shifted, puckered, shaped itself into a parody of a mouth.

“—nothing at all! He's a blank, Modera! Couldn't sense a thing about him!”
 In the other circle, a second, somewhat more delicate, mouth formed. “Perhaps you're still not
recovered enough, Drenden. After all, that shock you suffered—”

 “I'm over it! Take more than that to kill me! Besides, I know you were probing him, too! Didyousense
anything?”

 A frown formed on the feminine mouth. “No . . . which means he's very, very powerful—possibly almost
as powerful as Medivh.”

“He must be using some powerful talisman! No one's that powerful, not even Krasus!”

Modera's tone changed. “Do we really know how powerful Krasus is? He's older than the rest of us.
That surely means something.”

“It means he's cautious . . . but he is the best of us, even if he isn't master of the council.”

“That was his choice—more than once.”

Deathwing leaned forward, his once mild curiosity now growing stronger.

“What's he doing, anyway? Why's he keeping so secret?”

“He says he wants to try to find out about Prestor's past, but I think there's more. There's always more
with Krasus.”

“Well, I hope he finds out something soon, because this situation is—what is it?”

“I feel a tingling on my neck! I wonder if—”

 Up in the palace, the dragon quickly waved his hand across the two glass mouths. The pane instantly
flattened, leaving no trace. Deathwing backed away.

 The female had finally sensed his spellwork, but she would not be able to trace it back to him. He did
not fear them, however skilled for humans they were, but Deathwing had no desire at the moment to drag
out his confrontation with the pair. A new element had been added to the game, one that, for the first
time, made the dragon just a little pensive.

He turned back to Terenas. The king still stood where Deathwing had left him, mouth open and hand
out.

The dragon snapped his fingers.

 “—and I won't stand for it! I've a mind to cut off all diplomatic relations with them immediately! Who
rules in Lordaeron? Not the Kirin Tor, whatever they might think!”

 “Yes, probably a wise move, Your Majesty, but draw it out. Let them lodge their protest, then begin
closing the gates on them. I'm very certain that the other kingdoms will follow suit.”

Terenas gave him a weary smile. “You're a very patient young man, Prestor! Here I've been ranting and
you simply stand there, accepting it all! We're supposed to be discussing a future marriage! True, we've
more than two years before it can take place, but the betrothal will require extensive planning!” He
shrugged. “Such is the way of royalty!”

Deathwing gave him a slight bow. “I understand completely, Your Majesty.”

 The king of Lordaeron began telling him about the various functions his future son-in-law would need to
attend over the next several months. In addition to taking charge of Alterac, young Prestor would have to
be present for each occasion in order to strengthen the ties between him and Calia in the eyes of the
people and his fellow monarchs. The world would need to see that this match would be the beginning of
a great future for the Alliance.

 “And once we take Khaz Modan and Grim Batol back from those infernal orcs, we can begin plans for
a ceremonial return of the lands to the hill dwarves! A ceremony you shall lead, my dear boy, as you are
possibly one of those most responsible for holding this Alliance together long enough for victory. . . .”

 Deathwing's attention slipped further and further away from the babblings of Terenas. He knew most of
what the old man would say—having placed it into the human's mind earlier. Lord Prestor, the
hero—imagined or otherwise—would reap his rewards and slowly, methodically, begin the destruction of
the lesser races.

 However, what interested the dragon more at the moment was the conversation between the two
wizards, and especially their mention of another of the Kirin Tor, one Krasus. Deathwing found him of
interest. He knew that there had been earlier attempts to circumnavigate the spells surrounding the
chateau, and that one of those attempts had triggered theEndless Hunger,one of the oldest and most
thorough traps ever devised by a wielder of magic. The dragon also knew that theHungerhad failed in its
function.

Krasus . . .Was this the name of the wizard who had evaded a spell as ancient as Deathwing himself ?

 I may have to learn more about you,the dragon thought as he absently nodded in response to Terenas's
continued babble.Yes, I may have to learn more. . . .




FOURTEEN



 Krasus slept, slept deeper than he ever had, even as a small hatchling. He slept the sleep halfway
between dreaming and something else, that eternal slumber from which not even the mightiest conqueror
could awake. He slept knowing that each hour that passed slid him nearer and nearer to that sweet
oblivion.

And while he slept, the dragon mage dreamed.

 The first visions were murky ones, simple images from the sleeper's subconscious. However, they were
soon followed by more distinct and much starker apparitions. Winged figures both draconic and
otherwise fluttered about, seeming to scatter in panic. A looming man in black mocked him from a
distance. A child raced along a winding, sun-drenched hill . . . a child who suddenly transformed into a
twisted, undead thing of evil.

 Troubled by the meanings of these dreams even in the depths of his slumber, the wizard shifted uneasily.
As he did, he dropped deeper yet, entering a realm of pure darkness that both smothered and comforted
him.

And in that realm, a voice, a soft yet commanding voice, spoke to the desperate dragon mage.

You would sacrifice anything for her, would you not, Korialstrasz?

 In his sanctum, Krasus's lips moved as he mouthed a reply.I would give myself if that is what it takes to
free her. . . .

 Poor, loyal Korialstrasz . . .A shape formed in the darkness, a shape that fluctuated with each breath of
the sleeping figure. In his dreams, a drifting Krasus tried to reach for that shape, but it vanished just as he
almost caught it.

In his mind, it had been Alexstrasza.

You slip quicker and quicker toward the final rest, brave one. Is there something you would ask of me
before that happens?

Again his lips moved.Only that you help her . . .

Nothing for yourself? Your fading life, perhaps? Those who have the audacity to drink to death should
be rewarded with a full goblet of his finest vintage. . . .

 The darkness seemed to be pulling him in. Krasus found it hard to breathe, hard to think. The temptation
to simply turn over and accept the comforting blanket of oblivion grew stronger.

Yet he forced himself to reply.Her. All I ask is for her.

Suddenly he felt himself dragged upward, dragged to a place of color and light, a place where it became
possible to breathe again, to think again.

 Images assailed him, images not from his own dreams— but from the dreams of others. He saw the
wishes and wants of humans, dwarves, elves, and even orcs and goblins. He suffered their nightmares
and savored their sweet sensations. The images were legion, yet as each passed him by, Krasus
immediately found it impossible to recall them, just as he found it so hard to recall even his own dreams.

In the midst of this flowing landscape, another vision formed. However, while all around it moved as
mist, this one retained a shape—more or less—that grew to overwhelm the small figure of the wizard.

 A graceful draconic form, half substance, half imagination, spread its wings as if waking. Hints of faded
green, such as seen in a forest before the setting of night, spread across the torso of the leviathan. Krasus
looked up, prepared to meet the dragon's eyes—and saw that they were closed as if in sleep. However,
he had no doubt that the Mistress of Dreams perceived him all too well.

Such a sacrifice will I not demand from you, Korialstrasz, you who have always been a most interesting
dreamer. . . .The edges of the dragon's mouth curled up slightly.A most intriguing dreamer . . .
 Krasus sought to find stable footing, to findanyfooting, but the ground around him remained malleable,
almost liquid. He was forced to float, a position that left him feeling wanting.I thank you, Ysera. . . .

 Ever polite, ever diplomatic, even to my consorts, who have, in my name, rejected your desires more
than once.

They did not understand the situation fully,he countered.

 You mean I did not understand the situation fully.Ysera drifted back, her neck and wings rippling as if
reflected in a suddenly disturbed pool. Ever her eyelids remained shut, but her great visage focused quite
distinctly on the intruder to her realm.It is not so simple a matter to free your beloved Alexstrasza, and
even I cannot say if the cost is worth it. Is it not better to let the world run its course, to do as it will? If
the Giver of Life is to be freed, will it not happen of its own accord?

 Her apathy—the apathy ofallthree of the Aspects he had visited—set the dragon mage's mind afire with
anger.And is Deathwing truly to be the culmination of the world's course, then? He certainly will be if
none of you do anything but sit back and dream!

The wings folded in.Mention not that one!

Krasus pushed.Why, Lady of Dreams? Does he give you nightmares?

Although the lids stayed tight, Ysera's eyes surely held some dire emotion.He is one whose dreams I will
never enter—again. He is one who is quite possibly more terrible in his sleep than even waking.

 The beleaguered wizard did not pretend to understand the last. All that concerned him was the fact that
none of these great powers could summon up the wherewithal to make a stand. True, thanks to the
Demon Soulthey were not what they once had been, but still they wielded terrible power. Yet, it
appeared that all three felt that the Age of the Dragon had passed, and that even if theycouldalter the
future, it would not be worth dragging themselves out of their self-imposed stupors.

 I know that you and yours still circulate among the younger races, Ysera. I know that you still influence
the dreams of the humans, elves, and—

To a point, Korialstrasz! There are limits to evenmydomain!

But you have not given up entirely on the world then, have you? Unlike Malygos and Nozdormu, you do
not hide in madness or the relics of times past! After all, are not dreams also of the future?

As much as they are the past; you would do well to remember that!

The faint image of a human woman holding up a new baby drifted by. The brief glimpse of a young boy
doing epic battle with childish monsters of his own imagining flickered into and out of existence. Krasus
momentarily surveyed the various dreams forming and dissipating around him. As many dark as there
were those of a lighter nature, but that was how it had always been. A balance.

 Yet, in his mind, his queen's continued captivity and Deathwing's determination to wrest the world from
the younger races upset that balance. There would be no more dreams, no more hopes, if both situations
were not rectified.
With or without your help, Ysera, I will go on. I must!

You are certainly welcome to do so. . . .The dream dragon's form wavered.

 Krasus turned away from her, ignoring the intangible images that scattered in his wake.Then either send
me back to my sanctum or drop me into the abyss! Perhaps it would be best if I do not live to see the
fate of the world—and what becomes of my queen!

He expected Ysera to send him back to the arms of oblivion, so that he would no longer be able to harp
on the subject of his Alexstrasza to either her or any of the other Aspects. Instead, the dragon mage felt a
gentle touch on his shoulder, an almost tentative touch.

 Turning, Krasus found himself facing a slim, pale woman, beautiful but ethereal. She stood clad in a
flowing gown of pale green gossamer, a veil partially obscuring her lower features. In some ways she
reminded him of his queen—and yet not.

The eyes of the woman were closed.

Poor, struggling Korialstrasz.Her mouth did not move, but Krasus knew the voice for hers. Ysera's
voice. A pensive expression formed on the pale face.Youwoulddo anything for her.

 He did not understand why she bothered to repeat what they both knew already. Krasus again turned
from the Lady of Dreams, searching for some path by which he could escape this unreal domain.

Do not go yet, Korialstrasz.

And why not?he demanded, turning back—

 Ysera stared at him, eyes fully open. Krasus froze, unable not to stare back at those eyes. They were
the eyes of everyone he had ever known, ever loved. They were eyes that knew him, knew every bit
about him. They were blue, green, red, black, golden—every color that eyes could be.

They were even his own.

I will consider what you have said.

He could scarcely believe her.You will—

She raised a hand, silencing him.I will consider what you have said. No more, no less, for now.

And—and if you find you agree with me?

Then I will endeavor to convince Malygos and Nozdormu of your quest . . . and from them I can
promise nothing, even then.

It was more than Krasus had come with, even more than he had hoped for at this point. Perhaps it
would come to nothing, but it at least gave him hope to carry into battle.

I—I thank you.

I have done nothing for you yet . . . except kept your dreams alive.The brief smile that crossed Ysera's
lips had a regretful tinge to it.

 He started to thank her again, wanting her to understand that even this much would give him the strength
he needed to go on, but suddenly Ysera seemed to drift away from him. Krasus reached for her, but the
distance already proved too great, and when he sought to step forward, she only moved away more
swiftly.

Then it occurred to him that She of the Dreaming had not moved; he had.

 Sleep well and good, poor Korialstrasz,came her voice. The slim, pale figure wavered, then dissipated
completely.Sleep well, for in the battle you seek to fight you will need all your strength and more. . . .

He tried to speak, but even his dream voice would not work. Darkness descended upon the dragon
mage, the comforting darkness of slumber.

And do not undervalue those you think only pawns. . . .


The mountain fortress of the orcs proved not only to be more immense than even Rhonin had supposed,
but more confusing. Tunnels that he expected would bring him toward his goal would suddenly turn off in
different directions, even often rising instead of descending. Some ended, for no good reason that he
could decipher. One such tunnel forced him to backtrack for more than an hour, not only stealing
precious time but depleting his already flagging strength.

 It did not help at all that Deathwing had not spoken to him once in all that time. While Rhonin in no way
trusted the black dragon, at least he knew that Deathwing would have guided him to the captive
leviathan. What could have drawn the attention of the dark one away?

In an unlit corridor, the weary mage finally sat down to rest. He had with him a small water sack given to
him by the hapless goblins, and from this Rhonin took a sip. After that, Rhonin leaned back, believing that
a few minutes' relaxation would enable him to clear his mind and allow him to better traverse the
passages again.

Did he really imagine that he could free the Dragonqueen? The doubts had increased more and more as
he tried to wend his way through the mountain. Had he come here just to commit some grand suicide?
His life would not bring back those who had died and, in truth, they had all made choices of their own.

 How had he ever dreamt of such an insane quest? Thinking back, Rhonin recalled the first time the
subject had come up. Forbidden to take part in the activities of the Kirin Tor after the debacle of his last
mission, the young wizard had spent his days brooding, seeing no one and eating little. Under the
conditions of his probation, no one had been allowed to see him, either, which had made it more
surprising when Krasus had materialized before him, offering his support in Rhonin's efforts to return to
the ranks.

 Rhonin had always thought that he needed no one, but Krasus had convinced him otherwise. The master
wizard had discussed his younger counterpart's dire situation in great detail, to the point where Rhonin
had openly asked for his aid. Somehow the topic of dragons had arisen, and from there the story of
Alexstrasza, the crimson behemoth held captive by the orcs, forced to breed savage beasts for the glory
of the Horde. Even though the main element of the Horde itself had been shattered, so long as she
remained a prisoner, the orcs in Khaz Modan would continue to wreak havoc on the Alliance, killing
countless innocents.
 It had been at that juncture that the notion to free the dragon had occurred to Rhonin, a notion so
fantastic that he felt only he could have devised it. It had made perfect sense at the time. Redeem himself
or die trying in a scheme that would be forever spoken of among his brethren.

 Krasus had been so very impressed. In fact, Rhonin now recalled that the elder mage had spent much
time with him, working out details and encouraging the redhaired spellcaster. Rhonin freely admitted to
himself now that perhaps he would have dropped the idea if not for his patron's urging. In some ways, it
seemed as if the quest had been more Krasus's than his own. Of course, what would the faceless
councilor achieve by sending his protégé off on such a mission? If Rhonin succeeded, some credit might
go to the one who had believed in him, but if he failed . . . what good would that do Krasus?

 Rhonin shook his head. If he kept asking himself questions such as these, soon he would come to believe
that his patron had actually been the force behind this quest, that he had somehow used his influence to
make the younger wizardwantto journey to these hostile lands.

Absurd . . .

 A sudden noise nearly brought Rhonin to his feet, and he realized that somewhere in the course of his
thinking he had drifted off to sleep. The wizard pressed himself against the wall, waiting to see who
passed in the darkened corridor. Surely the orcs knew that the tunnel ended. Could they have come here
specifically in search of him?

 Yet the noise—barely discernible as muttered conversation—slowly faded away. The wizard realized
that he had been the victim of the complex acoustics of the cavern system. The orcs he had heard likely
were several levels away from him.

 Could he follow those sounds, though? With growing hope, Rhonin moved cautiously in the direction
from which he believed the conversation had come. Even if it had not exactly originated from that
location, at least the echoes might eventually lead him to where he hoped to go.

 How long he had slept, Rhonin could not say, but as he journeyed along, he heard more and more
sounds, almost as if Grim Batol had just awakened. The orcs seemed to be in the midst of a flurry of
activity, which presented the mage with something of a problem. Now there came too many noises from
too many directions. Rhonin did not want to accidentally step into the practice quarters of the warriors,
or even their mess hall. All he wanted was the chamber where the Dragonqueen lay prisoner.

 Then, a draconic roar cut through the sounds, a high roar that died quickly. Rhonin had already heard
such cries before, but had not thought about them. Now he cursed himself for a fool; would not all the
dragons be kept in the same general region? At the very worst, following the cries would at least get him
nearer tosomebeast, and then perhaps he could find the trail to the queen's chamber from there.

 For a time he wended his way through the tunnels with little problem, most of the orcs seemingly far
away, at work on some great project. Briefly the wizard wondered if Grim Batol planned for battle. By
now the Alliance had to be pressing the orc forces in northern Khaz Modan. Grim Batol would need to
support their brethren up there if the Horde hoped to drive the humans and their allies back.

 If so, the activity would work to Rhonin's advantage. Not only would the orcs' minds be occupied by
this, but there would be less of them. Surely every handler with a trained mount would be in the sky soon,
on the way to the north.
Encouraged, Rhonin set a more daring pace, a more certain one—which but seconds later nearly sent
him stumbling into the very arms of a pair of huge orc warriors.

 They were, fortunately, even more stunned to see him than he was them. Rhonin immediately raised his
left hand, muttering a spell that he had hoped to save for more dire circumstances.

The nearest of the orcs, his ugly, tusked face twisting into a berserker rage, reached for the ax slung on
his back. Rhonin's spell caught him directly in the chest, throwing the massive warrior hard against the
nearest rock wall.

 As the orc struck the wall, hemeldedinto the very rock. Briefly the outline of his form remained behind,
mouth still open in rage, but then even that faded into the wall . . . leaving no trace of the creature's
savage end.

 “Human scum!” roared the second, his ax now in hand. He took a heavy swing at Rhonin, chipping off
bits of stone as the wizard managed to duck out of the way. The orc lumbered forward, bulky, dull green
form filling the narrow corridor. A necklace of dried, wrinkled fingers— human, elven, and
otherwise—dangled before Rhonin's eyes, a collection to which his foe no doubt wished to add him. The
orc swung again, this time coming perilously near to severing the mage in two lengthwise.

Rhonin stared at the necklace again, a grim idea in mind. He pointed at the necklace and gestured.

 His spell briefly made the orc pause, but when the savage warrior saw no visible effect, he laughed
scornfully at the pitiful little human. “Come! I make it quick for you, wizard!”

But as he raised his ax, a scratching sensation forced the orc to look down at his chest.

The fingers on his necklace, more than two dozen strong, had moved to his throat.

 He dropped the ax and tried to pull them away, but they had already dug in tight. The orc began to
cough as the fingers formed a macabre hand of sorts, a hand cutting off his air.

 Rhonin scrambled back as the orc began to swing about wildly, trying to peel away the avenging digits.
The wizard had intended the spell only as a diversion while he came up with something more final, but the
severed fingers seemed to have taken the opportunity to heart. Vengeance? Even as a mage, Rhonin
could not believe that the spirits of the warriors slain by this orc had somehow urged the fingers to this
grand effort. It had to be the potency of the spell itself.

Surely it had to be. . . .

 Whether vengeful ghosts or simply magic, the enchanted fingers did their terrible work with seeming
eagerness. Blood covered much of the orc's upper chest as nails tore into the softer throat. The
monstrous warrior collapsed to his knees, eyes so desperate that Rhonin finally had to look away.

A few seconds later, he heard the orc gasp—then a heavy weight fell to the tunnel floor.

The massive berserker lay in a bloody heap, the fingers still dug deep into his neck. Daring to touch one
of the severed digits, Rhonin found no movement, no life. The fingers had performed their task and now
had returned to their previous state, just as his spell had intended.

And yet . . .
 Shaking off such thoughts, Rhonin hurried past the corpse. He had nowhere to put the body and no time
to think about it. Before long someone would discover the truth, but the wizard could not help that.
Rhonin had to concern himself only with the Dragonqueen. If he did manage to free her, perhaps she
would at least carry him off to safety. In that, truly, lay his only possibility of escape.

He managed to traverse the next few tunnels without interruption, but then found himself heading toward
a brightly lit corridor from which the babble of voices grew loud and strong. Moving with more caution,
Rhonin edged up to the intersection, peering around the corner.

 What he had taken for a corridor had proven to actually be the mouth of a vast cavern that opened up to
the right, a cavern in which scores of orcs worked hard at loading up wagons and preparing draft
animals, all as if they intended some long journey from which they would not likely soon return.

 Had he been correct about the battle north? If so, why did it seemeveryorc intended to depart? Why not
simply the dragons and their handlers? It would take far too long for these wagons to reach Dun Algaz.

 Two orcs came into sight, the pair carrying some great weight between them. Clearly they would have
preferred to put down whatever it was they carried, but for some reason dared not do so. In fact, Rhonin
thought that they took special care with their burden, almost as if it were made of gold.

 Seeing that no one looked in his direction, the wizard took a step forward in order to better study what
the orcs so valued. It was round—no,oval—and a bit rough in outer appearance, almost scaly. In fact, it
reminded Rhonin of nothing more than an—

Anegg.

Adragon'segg, to be precise.

 Quickly his gaze shifted to some of the other wagons. Sure enough, he now realized that several of them
bore eggs in some stage of development, from smoother, nearly round ones to others even more scaled
than the first, eggs clearly near to hatching.

With the dragons so essential to the orcs' fading hopes, why would they be risking such precious cargo
on such a journey?

Human.

 The voice in his head nearly made Rhonin shout. He flattened against the wall, then quickly slipped back
into the tunnel. Finally certain that none of the orcs could see him, Rhonin seized the medallion around his
neck and gazed at the black crystal in the center.

Sure enough, it now glowed slightly.

Human . . . Rhonin . . . where are you?

 Did Deathwing not know? “I'm in the very midst of the orc fortress,” he whispered. “I was looking for
the Dragonqueen's chamber.”

You found something else, though. There was a glimpse of it. What was it?
For some reason, Rhonin did not want to tell Deathwing. “It was only the orcs at battle practice. I nearly
walked in on them without realizing it.”

His response was followed by a lengthy silence, so lengthy, in fact, that he nearly thought Deathwing had
broken the link. Then, in a very even tone, the dragon returned,I wish to see it.

“It's nothing—”

 Before Rhonin could say another word, his body suddenly rebelled against him, turning back toward the
cavern and the many, many orcs. The outraged spellcaster tried to protest, but this time even his mouth
would not work for him.

 Deathwing brought him to the spot where he had last stood, then made the wizard's right hand hold up
the medallion. Rhonin guessed that Deathwing observed all through the ebony crystal.

At battle practice . . . I see. . . . And is this how they practice their retreating?

He could not reply to the leviathan's mocking retort, nor did he think that Deathwing really cared if he
did. The dragon forced him to stay in the open while the medallion surveyed everything.

Yes, I see. . . . You may return to the tunnel now.

His body suddenly his own again, Rhonin slipped out of sight, thankful that the orcs had been so busy
with their task that no one had chanced to look up. He leaned against a wall, breathing heavily and
realizing that he had been far more frightened of discovery than he would have thought possible. So,
evidently, Rhonin was not as suicidal as he had once imagined.

You follow the wrong path. You must go back to the previous intersection.

 Deathwing made no comment about Rhonin's attempt at subterfuge, which worried the wizard more than
if the dragon had. Surely Deathwing, too, pondered the orcs' moving of the eggs—unless he knew
something about it already? How could that be possible, though? Certainly no one here would relay that
information to him. The orcs feared and despised the black dragon at least as much as— if not more
than—they did the entire Lordaeron Alliance.

 Despite those concerns, he immediately followed Deathwing's instructions, backtracking along the
corridor until he came to the intersection in question. Rhonin had ignored it earlier, thinking its narrow
appearance and lack of lighting meant it was of little significance. Surely the orcs would have kept any
tunnel of importance better lit.

“This way?” he whispered.

Yes.

 How the dragon knew so much about the cavern system continued to bother Rhonin. Surely Deathwing
had not gone wandering through the tunnels, not even in his human guise. Could he have done so in the
form of an orc? Possibly so, and yet that, too, did not seem the answer.

The second tunnel on your left. You will take that one next.

Deathwing's directions appeared flawless. Rhonin waited for one mistake, one error, that would indicate
the dragon guessed, at least in part. No such mistake occurred. Deathwing knew his way around the
orcs' sanctum as good as, if not better than, the bestial warriors themselves.

Finally, after what felt like hours more of traveling, the voice abruptly commanded,Cease.

Rhonin paused, although he had no clue as to what concerned Deathwing enough to demand this stop.

Wait.

A few moments later, voices from down the tunnel carried to the wizard.

“—where you were! I've questions for you, questions!”

“Most sorry, my grand commander, most sorry! It could not be helped! I—”

 The voices faded away just as Rhonin strained to hear more. He knew one to be that of an orc,
evidently even that of the one in charge of the fortress, but the other speaker had been of quite a different
race. A goblin.

 Deathwing made use of goblins. Could that be how he knew so much about this vast lair? Had one of
the goblins here also been serving the dark one?

He would have liked to have followed and heard more of the conversation, but the dragon suddenly
ordered him on again. Rhonin knew that if he did not obey, Deathwing might very well make him march.
At least while Rhonin had control of his limbs, he could still feel as if he had some choice in matters.

Crossing the tunnel down which the orc commander and the goblin had gone, Rhonin descended through
a deep tunnel toward what seemed the very bowels of the mountain. Surely now he had to be near the
Dragonqueen. In fact, he almost swore that he could hear the breathing of a giant, and since there were
no true giants in Grim Batol, that left only dragons.

Two corridors ahead. Turn right. Follow until you see the opening to your left.

Deathwing said no more. Rhonin again obeyed his instructions, quickening the pace as much as possible.
His nerves were on edge. How much longer would he have to wander through this mountain?

He turned right, followed the next passage on and on. From the dragon's simplistic instructions, Rhonin
had expected to come across the opening mentioned in fairly quick time, but even after what had to be
half an hour he had seen nothing, not even another intersection. Twice he had asked Deathwing if he
would soon arrive, but his unseen guide remained silent.

 Then, just as the wizard felt ready to give up—he saw a light. A dim one, to be sure, but definitely a light
. . . and on the left side of the corridor.

Hopes renewed, Rhonin hurried toward it as quickly as he could without making much noise. For all he
knew, a dozen orcs stood guard around the Dragonqueen. He had spells ready, but hoped they could be
preserved for other, more desperate moments.

Halt!

Deathwing's voice reverberated through his head, nearly causing Rhonin to collide with the nearest wall.
He flattened against it instead, certain that some sentinel had discovered him.

Nothing. The passage remained empty of any but himself.

“Why did you call out?” he whispered to the medallion.

Your destination lies before you . . . but the way may be guarded by more than flesh.

 “Magic?” He had thought of that already, but the dragon had not given him any chance to carefully
check for himself.

And sentries of magical origin. There is a quick way to discover the truth. Hold out the medallion before
you as you move toward the entrance.

“What about guards of flesh and blood? I still have to worry about them.”

He could hear the dark one's growing irritation.All will be known, human. . . .

Certain that, at the very least, Deathwing wanted him to reach Alexstrasza, Rhonin held the medallion
before him and slowly edged forward.

I detect only minor spells—minor to one such as I, that is,the dragon informed him as he neared.I will
deal with them.

The black crystal suddenly flared, almost causing the startled mage to lose his hold.

 The protective spells have been eradicated.A pause.There are no sentries inside. They would not need
them, even without magical spells. Alexstrasza is thoroughly chained and bolted to her surroundings. The
orcs have been quite efficient. She is completely secure.

“I should go in?”

I would be disappointed if you did not.

Rhonin found Deathwing's phrasing slightly curious, but did not think long on it, more concerned with the
hope of at last facing the Dragonqueen. He wished Vereesa could have been here now, then wondered
why that would so please him. Perhaps—

 Even thoughts of the silvery-tressed elf faded as he stepped into the entranceway and beheld for the first
time the gargantuan red behemothAlexstrasza.

And found her staring back, an emotion in her reptilian eyes that seemed to him akin to fear—but not for
herself.

“No!” she rumbled as best as the brace around her throat enabled her.“Step back!”

At the same time, Deathwing's voice, its tone triumphant, uttered,Perfect!

 A flash of light surrounded the wizard. Every fiber of his being shook as some monstrous force ripped
through him. The medallion slipped from his suddenly limp fingers.
As he collapsed, he heard Deathwing repeat the single word, laughing afterward.

Perfect. . . .




FIFTEEN



 Vereesa gasped as breathing once more became an option for her. The nightmare of being buried alive
slowly receded as she gulped in great lungfuls of air. Gradually, full calm returned to her and she finally
opened her eyes—to see that she had traded one nightmare for another.

 Three figures hunched about a tiny fire in the midst of what appeared to be a small cave. The flames
gave their grotesque forms an additional element of horror, for because of it she could make out the ribs
beneath the skin and the mottled, scaly flesh that hung loosely. Worse, she could clearly see the long,
cadaverous faces with beaklike noses and elongated chins. The ranger could especially make out the
narrow, insidious eyes and the sharp, sharp, teeth.

The three were clad in little more than ragged kilts. Throwing axes sat beside each figure, weapons that
Vereesa understood these creatures used with enviable skill.

Despite her attempts to keep silent, some minor movement on her part must have reached the long,
pointed ears that so reminded the ranger of goblins, for one of her captors immediately looked her way.

“Supper's awake,” he hissed, a patch covering what remained of his left eye.

“Looks more like dessert to me,” returned a second, bald where the other two wore long, shaggy
mohawks.

 “Definitely dessert,” grinned the third, who wore a tattered scarf that had once belonged to one of
Vereesa's own kind. He seemed lankier than the other two, and spoke as if no one would dare
contradict him. The leader, then.

The leader of a trio of hungry-looking trolls.

“Slim pickings lately,” the scarf-wearer went on. “But time now for a feast, yes.”

 Something to the ranger's right suddenly let out what would have been quite a telling epithet if not for the
gag that smothered the words. Twisting her head as best as the carefully tied ropes allowed her, Vereesa
saw that Falstad, too, still lived, albeit for how long she could not say. Rumors had long persisted, even
before the days of the Troll Wars, that these hideous creatures saw anything other than themselves as fair
game for food. Even the orcs, who had accepted them as allies, had been said to ever keep one eye on
the nimble, cunning fiends.

Fortunately, due to both the Troll Wars and the battle against the Horde, their foul race had dwindled in
numbers greatly. Vereesa herself had never seen a troll before, only knew them from drawings and
legends. She found she would have much preferred to keep it that way.

“Patience, patience,” murmured the scarf-wearer in a mock sympathetic voice. “You'll be first, dwarf!
You'll be first!”

“Can't we do it now. Gree?” begged the one-eyed troll. “Why can't we do it now?”

 “Because I said so, Shnel!” With one hard fist, Gree suddenly struck Shnel in the jaw, sending the
second creature rolling.

 The third troll hopped to his feet, encouraging both of his companions to more blows. Gree glared at
him, literally staring the bald troll down. Meanwhile, Shnel crawled back to his place by the tiny fire,
looking completely subdued.

“Iam leader!” Gree slapped a bony, taloned hand against his chest. “Yes, Shnel?”

“Yes, Gree! Yes!”

“Yes, Vorsh?”

The hairless monstrosity bobbed his head over and over. “Yes, oh, yes, Gree! Leader you are! Leader
you are!”

 As with elves, dwarves, and especially humans, there had existed different types of trolls. Some few
spoke with the sophistication of elves—even while they tried to take one's head. Others ranged toward
the more savage, especially those who most frequented the barrows and other underground realms. Yet
Vereesa doubted that there could be any lower form of troll than the three base creatures who had
captured her and Falstad—and clearly had still darker designs for them.

The trio went back to some muffled conversation around the tiny fire. Vereesa again looked to the
dwarf, who stared back at her. A raised eyebrow by her was answered by a shake of his head. No,
despite his prodigious strength, he could not escape the tight bonds. She shook her head in turn.
However barbaric the trolls might be, they were true experts in knot-tying.

Trying to remain undaunted, the ranger peered around at her surroundings—what little there was to see
of them. They seemed to be in the midst of a long, crudely hewn tunnel, likely of the trolls' own making.
Vereesa recalled the long, taloned fingers, just perfect for digging through the rock and earth. These trolls
had adapted well to their environment.

 Despite already knowing the results in advance, the elf nonetheless tried to find some looseness in her
ropes. She twisted around as cautiously as she could, rubbed her wrists nearly raw, but to no avail.

A horrific chuckle warned her that the trolls had seen at least her final attempts.

“Dessert's lively,” commented Gree. “Should make for good sport!”

“Where's the others?” groused Shnel. “Should've been here by now!”

 The leader nodded, adding, “Hulg knows what'll happen if he doesn't obey! Maybe he—” The troll
suddenly seized his throwing ax.“Dwarves!”
The ax went spinning through the tunnel, passing just a few inches from Vereesa's head.

A guttural cry followed but a moment later.

 The walls of the tunnel erupted with short, sturdy forms letting out battle calls and waving short axes and
swords.

 Gree pulled out another, slightly longer ax, this one evidently for hand-to-hand combat. Shnel and
Vorsh, the latter crouched, let loose with throwing axes. The elf saw one squat attacker fall to Shnel's
weapon, but Vorsh's went wide. The trolls then followed the example of their leader and readied
stronger, bulkier axes as the newcomers surrounded them.

Vereesa counted more than half a dozen dwarves, each clad in ragged furs and rusting breastplates.
Their helmets were rounded, form-fitting, and lacking any horns or other unnecessary adornments. As
with Falstad, most had beards, although they seemed shorter and better trimmed.

 The dwarves wielded their axes and swords with practiced precision. The trolls found themselves
pressed closer and closer to one another. Shnel it was who fell first, the one-eyed beast not seeing the
warrior who came in on his blind side. Vorsh barked a warning, but it came too late. Shnel took a wild
swing at his new foe, missing completely.

The dwarf drove his sword into the lanky troll's gut.

 Gree fought the most savagely. He landed one good blow that sent a dwarf tumbling back, then nearly
beheaded another. Unfortunately, his ax broke as it collided with the longer, well-built one wielded by his
latest opponent. In desperation, he seized the dwarf 's weapon by the upper handle and struggled to take
it out of the shorter fighter's grip.

The well-honed blade of another ax caught the troll leader in the back.

 The elf almost felt some sympathy for the last of her captors. Vorsh, eyes wide with the knowledge of
his impending doom, looked ready to whimper. Nonetheless, he continued waving his ax at the nearest of
the dwarves, almost landing a bloody strike by sheer luck. However, he could do nothing to stem the tide
of foes who now advanced in an ever-tightening circle, swords and axes ready.

In the end, Vorsh's death approached butchery.

 Vereesa turned her gaze away. She did not face forward again until a steady voice with a hint of gravel
in it commented, “Well, no wonder the trolls fought so hard! Gimmel! Ye see this?”

“Aye, Rom! Much better sight than what I've found over here!”

Thick hands pulled her to a sitting position. “Let's see if we can get these ropes off ye without too much
damage to that fine form!”

 She looked up into the face of a ruddy dwarf at least six inches shorter than Falstad and built much
stockier. Despite first appearances, however, his expert handling of the ropes quickly informed the ranger
that she should not take him or any of his companions for clumsy, especially after the manner in which
they had dispatched the trolls.
Up close, the garments of the dwarves took on an even more ragged appearance, not surprising if they
had been subsisting, as Vereesa suspected, on whatever they could steal from the orcs. A distinctive
odor also prevailed, indicating that bathing had also long been at a premium.

“Here ye go!”

 Her ropes fell away. Vereesa immediately pulled free the gag, with which the dwarf had not bothered.
At the same time, a long string of swearwords from her side indicated that Falstad, too, had now been
completely released.

“Shut ye mouth or I'll stuff that gag back in permanent!” Gimmel snarled back.

“It'd take a hand's worth of you hill dwarves to bring one from the Aerie down!”

 A rumble of discord indicated that their rescuers could readily become new captors if the gryphon-rider
did not quiet. Stumbling to her feet—and recalling at the last moment that the tunnel did not quite match
her height in this area—the anxious ranger snapped, “Falstad! Be polite with our companions! They have,
after all, saved us from a horrid fate!”

“Aye, ye have the right of it,” Rom replied. “The damn trolls, they eat anything of flesh—dead or alive!”

“They mentioned some companions,” she suddenly recalled. “Perhaps we had better leave this place
before they come—”

 Rom raised his hand. His crinkled features reminded Vereesa of a tough old dog. “No need to worry
about them. That's how we found this trio.” He mused a moment longer. “But ye may be right,
nonetheless! It's not the only band of trolls in this region. The orcs, they use 'em almost like hunting
hounds! Anything other than an orc that crosses these ruined lands is fair game—and they've even taken
one of their own allies from the mountain when they've thought they could!”

Images of the fates that had been planned for them coursed through Vereesa's head. “Disgusting! I thank
you wholeheartedly for your timeliness!”

“Had I known it would've been ye we were rescuing, I'd have made this sorry bunch move faster!”

Gimmel, eyes shifting much too often to the elf, joined his leader. “Joj's dead. Still stickin' halfway out the
hole. Narn's bad; he'll need fixin' up. The rest of the wounded can travel well enough!”

“Then let's be moving on! That mean's ye, too, butterfly!” The last referred to Falstad, who bristled at
what apparently had to be a harsh insult to one of the Aerie dwarves.

 Vereesa managed to calm him down with a soft touch on his shoulder, but her friend continued to glower
as the party started off. The elf noticed that the hill dwarves stripped not only the trolls of any useful
items, but also their dead companion. They made no move to try to bring the body with them, and when
Rom noticed her glance, he shrugged in mild shame.

 “The war demands some proprieties be left behind, lady elf. Joj would've understood. We'll see that his
stuff is divided up to his nearest kin and that they also get an extra share of the trolls' items . . . not that
there was much, sorry to say.”

“I had no idea that there were any of you left in Khaz Modan. It was said that all the dwarves left when
it became clear that they could not hold the land against the Horde.”

Rom's canine face turned grim. “Aye, all thatcouldleave did! Wasn't possible for all of us, ye know! The
Horde, it came like the proverbial plague, cutting off much of us from any route! We were forced to go
deeper underground than we'd ever gone before! Many's that died at that time, and many more's that
died since!”

She looked over his ragtag band. “How many are you?”

 “My clan? Seven and forty, where once we counted hundreds! We've talked with three others, two
larger than ourselves. Put that total number at three hundred and a little over, and ye still only got a small
fraction of what we once were in this land!”

 “Three hundred and more's still quite a number,” rumbled Falstad. “Aye, with that many, I'd have gone
to take Grim Batol back!”

 “And perhaps if we fluttered about in the sky like dizzy bugs, we might confuse them enough to make
that seem possible, but on the ground or under it, we're still at a disadvantage! Takes only one dragon to
scorch a forest and bake the earth below!”

 Old enmities between the Aerie and the hills threatened to explode again. Vereesa quickly tried to
breach the gap between the two. “Enough of this! It is the orcs and theirs who are the enemies, am I not
correct? If you fight with one another, does that not serve their purpose alone?”

 Falstad mumbled an apology to her, as did Rom. However, the elf would not let matters settle at only
that. “Not good enough. Turn and face one another, then swear you will fight only for the good of all of
us! Swear that you will always remember that it is the orcs who slew your brothers, the orcs who killed
what you loved.”

 She knew no specifics about either of the dwarves' pasts, but could draw upon the common
understanding that everyone who fought in the war had lost someone or something dear. Rom had no
doubt lost many loved ones, and Falstad, who belonged to a reckless yet daring aerial band, surely had
suffered the same.

To his credit, the gryphon-rider held his hand out first. “Aye, 'tis the right of it. I'll shake.”

“If ye be doing it, I'll be doing it.”

 Murmurs arose briefly from the other hill dwarves as the two clasped hands. Likely this sort of quick
compromise would have been impossible under any circumstances other than the immediate ones.

The party moved on. This time it was Rom who asked the questions. “Now that the danger of trolls is
behind us, lady elf, ye should tell us what brings ye and that one to our wounded land. Is it as we
hope—that the war turns back on the orcs, that Khaz Modan will soon be free again?”

 “The war is moving against the Horde, that much is true.” This brought some gasps and quiet cheers
from the dwarves. “The bulk of the Horde was broken a few months back, and Doomhammer has
disappeared.”

Rom paused in his tracks. “Then why are the orcs still in command of Grim Batol?”
“You've to ask on that?” interjected Falstad. “First of all, the orcs still hold out in the north around Dun
Algaz. 'Tis said they're beginning to cave in, but they won't go down without a fight.”

“And the second, cousin?”

“You've not noticed that they've dragons?” Falstad asked with mock innocence on his face.

 Gimmel snorted. Rom gave his second-in-command a glare, but then nodded in resignation. “Aye, the
dragons. The one foe we, earthbound, cannot battle. Caught a young one on the ground once and made
short work of it—with the loss of one or two good warriors, sad to say—but for the most part, they stay
up there and we're forced to hide down here.”

“You've fought the trolls, though,” Vereesa pointed out. “And surely the orcs as well.”

 “The occasional patrol, aye. And the trolls, we've done them some damage, too—but it all means
nothing if our home's still under the orc ax!” He stared her in the eye. “Now, I ask again. Tell me who ye
are and what ye doing here! If Khaz Modan's still orcish, then ye would have to be suicidal to come to
Grim Batol!”

 “My name is Vereesa Windrunner, ranger, and this is Falstad of the Aeries. We are here because I
search for a human, a wizard, tall of height and young. He has hair of fire, and when last I saw him, he
was headed this direction.” She decided to omit the black dragon's presence for the moment, and was
grateful that Falstad did not choose to add that information himself.

 “And as daft as wizards are, especially human ones, what would he be thinking of doing near Grim
Batol?” Rom studied the pair with some growing suspicion, Vereesa's tale no doubt just a bit too
far-fetched for his tastes.

“I do not know,” she admitted. “but I think it has something to do with the dragons.”

 At this, the dwarven leader let out a bellowing laugh. “The dragons? What's he plan to do? Rescue the
red queen from bondage? She'll be so grateful she'll gobble him right up out of excitement!”

 The hill dwarves all found this terribly amusing, but the elf did not. To his credit, Falstad did not join in
the merriment, although he, of course, knew about Deathwing, and most likely assumed that Rhonin had
already long ago been “gobbled up.”

“I swore an oath, and because of it I will go on. I must reach Grim Batol and see if I can find him.”

 The merriment changed to a mixture of astonishment and disbelief. Gimmel shook his head as if not
certain that he had heard right.

“Lady Vereesa, I respect ye calling, but surely ye can see how outrageous such a quest is!”

 She carefully studied the hardened band. Even in the near dark, she could see the weariness, the
fatalism. They fought and they dreamed of their homeland free, but most likely thought that it would never
happen in their lifetime. They admired bravery, as all dwarves did, but even to them the elf 's quest
bordered on the insane.

 “You and your people have saved us, Rom, and for that I thank you all. But if I can ask one boon, it is
to show me the nearest tunnel leading to the mountain fortress. I will take it alone from there.”
 “You'll not be journeying alone, my elven lady,” objected Falstad. “I've come too far to turn back now .
. . and I'm of a mind to find a certain goblin and skin his hide for boots!”

“Ye both be daft!” Rom saw that neither would be swayed. Shrugging, he added, “But if it's a way to
Grim Batol ye want, then I'll not set that task to another. I'll take ye there myself!”

 “Ye cannot go alone, Rom!” snapped Gimmel. “Not with the trolls on the move and the orcs near there!
I'll go with ye to watch ye back!”

 Suddenly, the rest of the band decided that they, too, needed to go along in order to watch the backs of
their leaders. Both Rom and Gimmel tried to argue them down, but as one dwarf was generally as
stubborn as another, the leader finally came up with a better notion.

“The wounded must return home, and they need some to watch them, too—and no arguments from ye,
Narn, ye can barely stand! The best thing to do is roll the bones; the half with the high numbers comes
with! Now, who has a set?”

 Vereesa hardly wanted to wait for the band to gamble in order to find out who would be traveling with
them, but saw no other choice. She and Falstad watched as various dwarves—Narn and the other
wounded excluded— set dice rolls against one another. Most of the hill dwarves used their own sets,
Rom's question having been responded to by a veritable sea of raised arms.

 The last had made Falstad chuckle. “The Aerie and the hills might have their differences, but you'll find
few dwarves of any kind who don't carry the dice!” He patted a pouch on his belt. “Can see what
heathens the trolls were; they left mine on me! 'Tis said that even the orcs like to roll the bones, which
makes 'em a step up from our late captors, eh?”

 After much too long a time for Vereesa's taste, Rom and Gimmel returned with seven other dwarves,
each with determined expressions on their faces. Looking at them, the elf could have sworn that they
were all brothers—although, in fact, at least two hinted at being sisters. Even female dwarves sported
strong beards, a sign of beauty among members of the race.

“Here's ye volunteers, Lady Vereesa! All strong and ready to fight! We'll lead ye to one of the cave
mouths in the base of the mountain, then ye are on ye own after that.”

 “I thank you—but, do you mean that you actually have a path that lets you journey into the mountain
itself ?”

“Aye, but it's no easy one . . . and the orcs don't patrol it alone.”

“What do you mean by that?” burst Falstad.

Rom gave the other dwarf the same innocent smile that Falstad had given him earlier. “Have ye not
heard they've dragons?”


The sanctum of Krasus had been built over an ancient grove, one older than even the dragons
themselves. It had been built by an elf, later usurped by a human mage, then seized long after its
abandonment by Krasus himself. He had sensed the powers lingering underneath it and had managed to
draw from them on rare occasions, but even the draconic wizard had been surprised to one day discover
the concealed entrance in the most remote part of his citadel, the entrance that led to the glittering pool
and the single, golden gemstone set in the midst of the bottom.

 Each time he entered the chamber, he felt a sense of awe so rare for one of his kind. The magic here
made him feel like a human novice just shown his first incantation. Krasus knew that he had only touched
a bare trace of the pool's potential, but that was enough to make him leery of trying to seize more. Those
who grew greedy in their need for magical power tended to eventually become consumed by it—literally.

Of course, Deathwing had somehow managed to avoid that fate so far.

 Despite being so deep underground, the water was not devoid of life—or something approaching it.
Even though no clearer liquid existed in all the world, try as he might, Krasus could never completely
focus on the tiny, slim forms that darted around, especially in the vicinity of the gemstone. At times, he
had sworn they were nothing but shimmering, silver fish, yet now and then the dragon mage swore that he
saw arms, a human torso, even on a rare occasion—legs.

 Today, he ignored the inhabitants of the pool. His confrontation with She of the Dreaming had given him
some hope of aid, but Krasus knew that he could not plan for it. Time swiftly approached when he would
have to commit himself.

 And that had been why he had come here now, for among its properties, the pool seemed able to
rejuvenate those who drank from it, at least for a time. His use of the poison in order to reach the hidden
realms of Ysera had left Krasus drained, and if matters demanded he act quickly, then he wanted to be
able to respond.

 Bending down, the wizard cupped a hand and gathered a small bit of water. He had tried a mug the first
time he had dared sip, only to discover that the pool rejected anything crafted. Krasus leaned over the
edge, wanting any drops that escaped his palm to return from whence they had come. His respect for the
power within had become that great over the years.

 Yet as he drank, a rippling in the surface caught his eye. Krasus glanced down at what should have been
the perfect reflection of his human form—but, instead, turned out to be something much different.

Rhonin's youthful visage gazed up at him . . . or so the wizard first thought. Then he realized that his
pawn's eyes were closed and the head lolled slightly to the side as if . . . as if dead.

Across Rhonin's face appeared the thick, green hand of an orc.

 Krasus reacted instinctively, reaching into the water to pull the foul hand away. Instead, he scattered the
image and, when the ripples had finally subsided, saw only his own reflection again.

“By the Great Mother . . .” The pool had never shown this ability before. Why now?

Only then did Krasus recall the parting words of Ysera.And do not undervalue those you think only
pawns . . .

 What had she meant by that, and why had he now seen Rhonin's face? Judging by the glimpse the senior
wizard had just had, his young counterpart had either been captured or killed by the orcs. If so, it was
too late for Rhonin to be of any more value to Krasus—although having apparently reached the mountain
fortress, he had fulfilled the true mission on which his patron had sent him.
 Combined with other bits of evidence that Krasus had let the orcs in Grim Batol discover over the past
several months, the dragon mage had hoped to stir up the commanders there, make them think that a
second invasion, a more subtle one, would be slipping in from the west. While quite a force still remained
based in the mountain fortress, its true power lay in the dragons bred and trained there . . . and those
grew fewer with each passing week. Worse for the orcs in the mountain, the few they had were more
and more being sent north to help the bulk of the Horde, leaving Grim Batol bereft of almost all its
defenses. Against a determined army comparable in size to that now fighting in the vicinity of Dun Algaz,
even the well-positioned orcs in the mountain would eventually succumb, thereby losing the chance to
raise any more dragons for the war effort.

 And without more dragons to harry the Alliance forces in the north, the remnants of the Horde would at
last crumble under the continual onslaught.

 Such a force could have been raised and sent in from the west if not for the general lack of cooperation
on the part of the leaders of the Alliance. Most felt that Khaz Modan would fall in its own time; why risk
more on such a mission? Krasus could not believe that they would not use a two-pronged assault to
finally rid the world of the orc threat, but that proved once again the shortsighted thinking of the younger
races. Originally, he had tried to persuade the Kirin Tor to push the course of action to Dalaran's
neighbors, but as their influence over King Terenas had begun to slip, his own comrades on the council
had turned instead to salvaging what remained of their position in the Alliance.

 And so Krasus had decided to play a desperate bluff, counting on the devious thinking and paranoia
inherent in the orc command. Let them believe the invasionwason its way. Let them even have physical
proof to go along with the rumors he and his agents had spread. Surely then they would do the
unthinkable.

 Surely then they would abandon their mountain fortress and, with Alexstrasza under careful watch, move
the dragon breeding operation north.

 The plan had started as a wild hope, but to even Krasus's surprise, he noted astonishing results. The orc
in command of Grim Batol, one Nekros Skullcrusher, had, of late, grown more and more certain that the
mountain's days of use were numbered, and numbered low. The wizard's wild rumors had even taken on
a life of their own, growing beyond his expectations.

 And now . . . and now the orcs had proof in the person of Rhonin. The young spellcaster had played his
part. He had shown Nekros that the seemingly impervious fortress could readily be infiltrated, especially
through magic. Surely now the orc commander would give the word to abandon Grim Batol.

 Yes, Rhonin had played his part well . . . and Krasus knew that he would never forgive himself for using
the human so.

What would his beloved queen even think of him when she found out the truth? Of all the dragons,
Alexstrasza most cared for the lesser races. They were the children of the future, she had once said.

“It had to be done,” he hissed.

 Yet, if the vision in the pool had been meant to remind him of the fate of his pawn, it had also served to
incite the wizard. He had to know more.

Bowing before the pool, Krasus closed his eyes and concentrated. It had been quite some time since he
had contacted one of his most useful agents. If that one still lived, then surely he had some knowledge of
the activities presently going on in the mountain. The dragon mage pictured the one with whom he sought
to speak, then reached out with his thoughts, with all his strength, to open the link the two shared.

“Hear me now . . . hear my voice . . . it is urgent that we talk . . . the day may be on us at last, my
patient friend, the day of freedom and redemption . . . hear me . . . Rom . . .”




SIXTEEN



Lift him up,” grunted the bestial voice.

 Sturdy hands harshly seized a dazed Rhonin by the upper arms and dragged him to his feet. Cold water
suddenly splashed all over his face, stirring him to consciousness.

“His hand. That one.” One of those holding the wizard up lifted Rhonin's left arm. Someone grabbed his
hand, took hold of his little finger—

Rhonin screamed as the bone cracked. His eyes flew wide open, and he found himself staring at the
brutal visage of an older orc much scarred by years of fighting. The orc's expression showed no sign of
pleasure at the human's pain, but rather a slight hint of impatience, as if Rhonin's captor would have
preferred to be elsewhere dealing with matters of greater import.

“Human.” The word came out sounding like a curse. “You've one chance for life; where's the rest of
your party?”

“I don't—” Rhonin coughed. The pain from his broken finger still coursed through him. “I'm alone.”

“You take me for a fool?” grunted the leader. “You take Nekros for a fool? How many fingers left, eh?”
He tugged on the one next to the broken finger. “Many bones in the body. Many bones to be cracked!”

 Rhonin thought as quickly as the pain would allow him. He had already informed his captor that he had
come alone and that had not satisfied the orc. What did this Nekros want to hear? That his mountain had
been invaded by an army? Would that actually please him?

Of course, it might also help to keep Rhonin alive until he could find some means of escape.

He still did not know what had happened, only that, despite his precautions, he had been fooled by
Deathwing. Evidently the dragon hadwantedthe mage discovered. But why? It made as much sense as
Nekros's seeming desire to have enemy soldiers wandering through his very fortress!

Rhonin could worry about Deathwing's murky plans later. For now, the ragged wizard's life came first.

“No! No . . . please . . . the others . . . I'm not certain where they are . . . got separated . . .”
“Separated? Don't think so! You came for her, didn't you? You came for the Dragonqueen! That's your
mission, wizard! I know it!” Nekros leaned close, his breath threatening to smother Rhonin back into
unconsciousness. “My spies heard! You heard, didn't you, Kryll?”

“Oh, yes, oh, yes, Master Nekros! I heard it all!”

 Rhonin tried to glance past the orc, but Nekros would not let him see who spoke. Still, the voice itself
said much about the spy's identity, especially that this Kryll had to be the goblin he had heard earlier.

“I say again to you, human, that you came for the dragon, isn't that so?”

“I got sep—”

 Nekros slapped him across the face, leaving a trail of blood at the edge of Rhonin's mouth. “Another
finger'll be next! You came to free the dragon before your armies reached Grim Batol! You figured the
chaos would work for you, didn't you?”

This time, Rhonin learned. “Yes . . . yes, we did.”

“You said ‘we’! That's twice now!” The lead orc leaned back in triumph. For the first time, the injured
mage noticed Nekros's maimed leg. Small wonder this brutal orc commanded the dragon-breeding
program instead of a savage war party.

 “You see, great Nekros? Grim Batol is no longer safe, my glorious commander!” pitched in the high
voice of the goblin. “Who knows how many more enemies still lurk in its countless tunnels? Who knows
how long before the Alliance marches on you—with the dark one leading the way? A pity nearly all your
remaining dragons are already up near Dun Algaz! You can't possibly defend the mountain with so few!
Best if the enemy did not find us here at all rather than waste so much precious—”

 “Tell me something Idon'tknow, little wretch!” He poked a meaty finger into Rhonin's chest. “Well, this
one and his comrades've come too late! You'll not get the dragon or her young, human! Nekros's thought
ahead of you all!”

“I don't—”

 Another slap. The only benefit of the stinging pain in the beaten wizard's face was that it took away from
the agony of his broken finger. “You can have Grim Batol, human, for all the good it's worth! May the
whole thing fall down on you!”

“Nekros—you must . . . must stop this insanity!”

Rhonin's head jerked up. He knew that voice, even though he had heard it but once before.

 His guards also reacted to the voice, turning enough to enable him to see the gargantuan, scaled form so
wickedly bound by chains and clamps. Alexstrasza, the great Dragonqueen, could scarcely move. Her
limbs, tail, wings and throat were held firmly in place. She could clearly open her tremendous jaws, but
only enough to eat and speak with effort.

 Captivity had not treated her well. Rhonin had seen dragons before, crimson ones especially, and those
had all had scales that bore a certain metallic sheen. Alexstrasza's, on the other hand, had become dull,
faded, and in many places looked loose. She did not seem at all well when he studied her reptilian
countenance, either. The eyes had a washedout look to them, not to mention an incredible weariness.

 He could only imagine what her imprisonment had been like. Forced to bear young who would be
trained by her captors to serve their murderous cause. Never likely seeing them once the eggs were
taken from her. Perhaps she even regretted the lives lost because of her deadly progeny. . . .

 “You've no permission to speak, reptile,” snarled Nekros. He reached into a pouch at his side and
clutched something.

Rhonin's skin tingled as a magical force of astonishing proportions awoke. He did not know what the orc
did, yet it made the Dragonqueen cry out with such pain that everyone but Nekros seemed affected by it.

Despite her agony, though, Alexstrasza continued. “You—you waste both energy and—and time,
Nekros! You fight for what is—is already—lost!”

 With a groan, she finally closed her eyes. Her breathing, so rapid the moment before, briefly grew
shallow before returning to a somewhat more normal rate.

 “Only Zuluhed commands me, reptile,” the onelegged orc muttered. “And he's far from here.” His hand
slipped free from the pouch. At the same time the magical force that Rhonin had felt abruptly faded away.

 The wizard had heard many rumors as to how the Horde could possibly keep such a magnificent
creature under their control, but none matched what he had just witnessed. Clearly some artifact or
device of tremendous strength lay in that pouch. Did Nekros even truly understand the power he
wielded? With such at his beck and call, he could have ruled the Horde himself!

 “We need to hunt down the others,” the elder warrior turned to a guard standing by the entranceway.
“Where'd you find the guard's body?”

“Fifth level, third tunnel.”

 Nekros's brow furrowed. “Above us?” He studied Rhonin as if looking over a prime piece of beef.
“Wizard's work! Start searching everything from fifth level up, then—leave no tunnel alone! Somehow
they've come from above!” A slow grin spread across his outlandish, tusked features. “Maybe not magic
after all! Torgus saw the gryphons! That's it! The rest of 'em came after Deathwing drove Torgus off!”

“Deathwing—Deathwing s-serves no one—but himself !” Alexstrasza suddenly pronounced, eyes
opening wide. She sounded almost fearful, for which Rhonin could not blame her. Who did not fear the
black demon?

“But he works now with the humans,” insisted her captor. “Torgus saw him!” His hand slapped the
pouch. “Well, maybe we'll be ready for him, too!”

 Now Rhonin could not help but stare at the pouch and its contents, which, judging by the vague shape,
seemed to be a medallion or disk. What power could it have that Nekros believed would even work
against the armored behemoth?

“It's dragons you all want. . . .” Once more Nekros faced the wizard. “And it's dragons you'll get . . . but
you and the dark one won't be happy long, human!” He waved toward the exit. “Take him away!”

“Kill him?” grunted one of the guards in what seemed hopeful tones.
 “Not yet! More questions later for this one . . . maybe! You know where to put him! I'll come right after
to make certain that even his magic won't help him!”

 The two massive orcs holding onto Rhonin pulled him forward with such vigorous force that he thought
that they would wrench his arms from the shoulder sockets. Through somewhat blurred vision, he caught
a glimpse of Nekros turning to another orc.

“Double the work! Get the wagons ready! I'll deal with the queen! I want everything prepared!”

Nekros passed from Rhonin's field of vision—and another figure entered.

The goblin that the orc had called Kryll winked at Rhonin, as if both shared a secret. When the wizard
opened his mouth, the malevolent little figure shook his oversized head and smiled. In his hands, the
goblin clutched something tight, something that drew the human's attention.

Kryll slid one hand back just long enough for Rhonin to see what he carried.

Deathwing's medallion.

And as the guards dragged him out of the commander's chamber, it came to the worn mage that he now
knew how Deathwing had garnered so much information about Grim Batol. He also knew that, whatever
Nekros planned, the orc, like Rhonin, did exactly as the black dragonwanted.


Although at home in the forests and hills, Vereesa had to admit that, when it came to the underworld, she
could not tell one tunnel from another. Her innate sense of direction seemed to fail her—either that or the
fact that she had to continually duck distracted her too much. Even though trolls used these tunnels from
time to time, most had been hewed out by dwarves in the days when the region around Grim Batol had
served as part of a complex mining community. That meant that Rom, Gimmel, and even Falstad had little
difficulty navigating them, but the tall elf had to walk bent over much of the time. Her back and legs
ached, but she gritted her teeth, unwilling to show any sign of weakness among these hardy warriors.
After all, Vereesa had been the one who had insisted on coming here in the first place.

Yet she finally had to ask, “Are we almost near?”

“Soon, very soon,” replied Rom. Unfortunately, he had been saying that for some time now.

“This entrance,” Falstad mused. “Where's it again?”

 “The tunnel comes out in what used to be a transport point for the gold we mined. Ye may even see a
few old tracks, if the orcs haven't melted them all down for weaponry.”

“And in this way we can get inside?”

 “Aye, ye can follow back along the old path even if the tracks're gone. They've some guards there,
though, so it won't be easy.”

Vereesa thought this over. “You mentioned dragons, too. How far above?”

“Not dragons in the sky, Lady Vereesa, but ones on the ground. That's where it gets tricky, ye might
say.”

“On the ground?” snorted Falstad.

“Aye, ones with damaged wings or too untrusted to let fly. Should be two on this side of the mountain.”

“On the ground . . .” the dwarf from the Aerie muttered. “Be a different sort of battle . . .”

Rom suddenly paused, pointing ahead. “There 'tis, Lady Vereesa! The opening!”

The ranger squinted but even with her exceptional night vision, she could not make out the supposed
opening.

Falstad apparently did. “Awful small. Be a tight fit.”

“Aye, too tight for orcs and they think too tight for us, but there's a trick to it.”

 Still unable to see anything, Vereesa had to satisfy herself with following the dwarves. Only when they
had nearly reached what seemed a dead end did she begin to notice a little bit of light filtering in from
above. Stepping closer, the frustrated elf noticed a slit barely big enough to fit her sword through, much
less her body.

She glanced down at the leader of the hill dwarves. “A trick to it, you say?”

 “Aye! The trick is that ye must move these rocks here, carefully set by us, in order to open the gap big
enough, but ye can't reach them from the outside! From there it looks to be all one rock, and it'd take the
orcs powerful more time than they'd like to do the job!”

“They know you are underground, though, do they not?”

Rom's expression grew dour. “Aye, but with the dragons about, they fear little from us. The way ye must
go to get inside is a dangerous one. That must be evident to ye. It frustrates us to be so close and yet be
unable to rid ourselves of these cursed invaders. . . .”

 For some reason she could not fathom, Vereesa sensed that the dwarven leader had not told her
everything. What he had said might be true to some extent, but for some other reason his people had not
made much use of this route. Had something happened in the past to make them shy away from it, or
was it truly that dangerous out there?

If the latter, did the elf really want to take the risk?

 She had already committed herself. If not for Rhonin, then for whatever she might do to help end this
interminable war—although Vereesa still held out hope that somehow she might find the wizard alive.

“We should get started. Is there a certain pattern needed when removing the rocks from their positions?”

Rom blinked. “Lady elf, ye must wait until dark! Any sooner and ye will be sighted, sure as I stand
before ye!”

“But we cannot wait that long!” Vereesa had no idea how many hours had passed since she and Falstad
had been captured by the trolls, but surely only a few hours at most.
“'Tis only an hour and a little more, Lady Vereesa! Surely that's worth ye life!”

That little of a wait? The ranger eyed Falstad.

“You were out for a very long time,” he replied to her unspoken question. “For a while, I thought you
dead.”

The elf tried to calm herself down. “Very well. We can wait until then.”

“Good!” The leader of the hill dwarves clapped his hands together. “That'll give us time to eat and rest!”

Although at first Vereesa felt too tense to even consider food, she accepted the simple fare that Gimmel
offered her a few minutes later. That these struggling souls would share what little they had spoke of the
depths of their compassion and camaraderie. Had the dwarves wanted to, they could have very well slain
Falstad and her after having dealt with the trolls. No one outside of their group would have ever been the
wiser.

 Gimmel took charge of seeing to it that everyone shared equally in the provisions. Rom, after taking his
portion, slowly wandered off, saying that he wished to inspect some of the side tunnels they had passed
earlier for any sign of troll activity.

 Falstad ate with gusto, seemingly enthused by the taste of the dried meat and fruit. Vereesa ate with less
enthusiasm, dwarven fare not famous for its succulent taste in either the elven or human realms. She
understood that they cured the meat in order to better preserve it, and even marveled that someone had
found or grown fruit in this dismal land, but her more sensitive taste buds even now complained to her.
However, the food was filling, and the ranger knew that she would need the energy.

 After finishing her fare, Vereesa rose and looked around. Falstad and the other dwarves had settled in to
relax, but the impatient elf needed to walk. She grimaced, thinking again how her instructor would have
called her so human right now. Most elves early on outgrew their tendencies toward impatience, but
some retained that trait for the rest of their lives. Those generally ended up either living beyond the
homeland or taking on tasks that let them travel extensively in the name of their people. Perhaps, if she
lived through this, she might choose one of those paths, maybe even visit Dalaran.

 Fortunately for Vereesa, the tunnels here had been carved out somewhat higher than many of those
through which she had earlier passed. For the most part, the elf managed to traverse the rocky corridors
with minimal bending, even occasionally standing unhindered.

 A muffled voice some distance ahead suddenly made her halt. The ranger had journeyed farther than she
had intended, enough so that she might have very well dropped herself right into troll territory. With
tremendous care so as not to make a sound, Vereesa drew her blade, then inched forward.

 The voice did not sound like that of a troll. In fact, the nearer she moved, the more it seemed to her that
she knew the speaker—but how?

 “—couldn't be helped, great one! Didn't think ye wanted them to know about ye!” A pause. “Aye, an elf
ranger fair of face and form, that's her.” Another pause. “The other? A wild one from the Aerie. Said his
mount escaped when the trolls took 'em.”

Try as she might, Vereesa could not hear the other half of the conversation, but she at least knew who
presently spoke. A hill dwarf, and one very much familiar to her.

 Rom. So his comment about searching the tunnels had not entirely been truth. But who did he speak with
and why did the elf not hear that one? Had the dwarf gone mad? Did he talk with himself ?

 Rom did not speak now save to acknowledge that he understood what his silent companion said.
Risking discovery, Vereesa edged toward the corridor from which the dwarf 's voice came. She leaned
around just enough in order to observe him with one eye.

 The dwarf sat on a rock, staring down into his cupped palms, from which a faint, vermilion glow
radiated. Vereesa squinted, trying to see what he held.

 With some difficulty, she made out a small medallion with what appeared to be a jewel in the center.
Vereesa did not have to be a wizard like Rhonin to recognize an object of power, an enchanted talisman
created by magic. The great elven lords utilized similar devices in order to communicate with either their
counterparts or their servants.

 What wizard, though, now spoke with Rom? Dwarves were not known for their fondness for magic nor,
for that matter, for their fondness for the ones who wielded it.

If Rom had links to a wizard, one whom the dwarf apparently even served, why did he and his band still
wander the tunnels, hoping for the day when they might be free to walk under the heavens? Surely this
great spellcaster could have done something for them.

“What?”Rom suddenly blurted. “Where?”

With startling swiftness, he looked up, his gaze focusing directly on her.

 Vereesa backed out of sight, but she knew her reaction had been too late. The dwarven leader had
spotted her, even despite the darkness.

“Come out where I can see ye!” he called. When she hesitated, Rom added, “I know 'tis ye, Lady
Vereesa. . . .”

 Seeing no more reason for subterfuge, the ranger stepped into the open. She made no attempt to
sheathe her sword, not at all certain that Rom might not be a traitor to his own people, much less her.

 She found him eyeing her in disappointment. “Here I thought I'd gone far away enough to avoid them
sharp, elven ears! Why did ye have to come here?”

 “My intent was innocent, Rom. I only needed to walk. Your intent, however, leaves many questions. . .
.”

“This business is none of ye concern—eh?”

 The gemstone in the medallion briefly flared, startling both of them. Rom tipped his head slightly to the
side, as if again listening to the unheard speaker. If so, then he clearly did not like what he heard.

“Do ye think it wise—aye, as ye say. . . .”

Vereesa tightened her grip on her sword. “Who do you speak with?”
To her surprise, Rom held out the medallion. “He'll tell ye himself.” When she did not take the proffered
medallion, he added, “He's a friend, not a foe.”

Still wielding the sword, the elf reached out with her free hand and gingerly took hold of the talisman.
She waited for a jolt or searing heat, but the medallion actually felt cool, harmless.

My greetings to you, Vereesa Windrunner.

 The words echoed in her skull. Vereesa nearly dropped the medallion, not because of the voice, but
rather that the speaker knew her name. She glanced at Rom, who seemed to encourage her to converse.

Who are you?the ranger demanded, sending her own thoughts toward the unseen speaker.

Nothing happened. She glanced again at the dwarf.

“Did he say anything to ye?”

“In my mind he did. I replied the same way, but he does not answer back.”

“Ye have to talk to the talisman! He'll hear ye voice as thought on his end. The same when he speaks to
ye.” The canine features looked apologetic. “I've no reason why 'tis so, but that's the way it works. . . .”

Returning her gaze to the medallion, Vereesa tried again. “Who are you?”

You know me through my missives to your superiors. I am Krasus of the Kirin Tor.

 Krasus? That had been the name of the wizard who had arranged with the elves for Vereesa to guide
Rhonin to the sea in the first place. She knew little more about him than that her masters had reacted with
respect when presented with his request. Vereesa knew of few other humans who could command such
from any elven lord.

“I know your name. You are also Rhonin's patron.”

A pause. Anuneasypause if the ranger were any judge.I am responsible for his journey.

“You know that he may be a prisoner of the orcs?”

I do. It was not intended.

Not intended? Vereesa felt an unreasonable fury arise within her. Not intended?

His mission was to observe, after all. Nothing more.

The elf had long ago ceased believing that. “Observe from where? The dungeons of Grim Batol? Or was
he to meet with the hill dwarves for some reason you have not stated?”

 Another pause. Then,The situation is far more complex than that, young one, and growing more so by
the moment. Your presence, for instance, was not part of the plan. You should have turned around at the
seaport.
“I swore an oath. I felt that it extended beyond the shores of Lordaeron.”

Near her, Rom wore a befuddled look. Bereft of the means by which to speak to the wizard, he could
only guess at Krasus's end of the conversation and to what Vereesa's responses might refer.

Rhonin is . . . fortunate,Krasus finally replied.

“If he still lives,” she nearly snapped.

Yet again, the wizard hesitated before answering. Why did he act as he did? Surely he did not care what
befell Rhonin. Vereesa knew enough about the ways of the spellcasters, both human and elf, to
understand that their kind ever used each other if given the opportunity. It only surprised her that Rhonin,
who had seemed more clever, had fallen for this Krasus's trickery.

Yes . . . if he still lives. . . .More hesitation.. . . then it is up to us to see what can be done to free him.

His reply completely startled her. She had hardly expected it of him.

 Vereesa Windrunner, hear me out. I have made some lapses in judgment—for great concerns—and the
fate of Rhonin is one of those lapses. You intend to try to find him, do you not?

“I do.”

Even in the mountain fortress of the orcs? A place of dragons, too?

“Yes.”

 Rhonin is fortunate to have you as a comrade . . . and I hope to be as fortunate now. I will do what I can
to aid you in this formidable quest, although the physical danger will be yours, of course.

“Ofcourse,”the elf wryly returned.

Please return the talisman to Rom. I would speak with him for a moment.

 More than willing to part with the wizard's tool, Vereesa handed the medallion back to the dwarf. Rom
took it and stared into the jewel. Occasionally he nodded his head, although clearly whatever Krasus said
bothered him much.

Finally, he looked up at Vereesa. “If ye really think it necessary . . .”

 She realized his words were for the wizard. A moment later, the glow from the jewel dimmed. Rom,
looking not at all happy, extended the talisman to the elf.

“What is this?”

“He wants ye to have it for the journey. Here! He'll tell ye himself!”

Vereesa took the object back. Immediately Krasus's voice filled her head again.Rom told you that I
wished you to carry this?

“Yes, but I do not want—”
Do you wish to find Rhonin? Do you wish to save him?

“Yes, but—”

I am your only hope.

 She would have argued with him, but, in truth, the ranger knew that she needed aid. With only Falstad
and herself, the odds already stood stacked against her.

“All right. What do we do?”

Place the talisman around your neck, then return with Rom to the others. I will guide you and your
dwarven companion into the mountain . . . and to the most likely place where you might find Rhonin.

He did not offer all she needed, but enough to make her agree. Slipping the chain over her head,
Vereesa let the medallion rest upon her chest.

You will be able to hear me whenever I wish it, Vereesa Windrunner.

Rom walked past her, already heading back. “Come! We're wasting time, lady elf.”

 As she followed, Krasus continued to talk to her.Make no mention of what this medallion does. Do not
even speak around others unless I give permission. Only Rom and Gimmel presently know my role.

“And what is that?” she could not help muttering.

Trying to preserve a future for us all.

 The elf wondered about that, but said nothing. She still did not trust the wizard, but had little other
choice.

Perhaps Krasus knew that, for he added,Hear me now, Vereesa Windrunner. I may tell you to do things
you might not think in the best interests of you or those you care about. Trust that they are. There are
dangers ahead you do not understand, dangers that alone you cannot face.

And you understand them all?Vereesa thought, knowing that Krasus would not hear the question.

 There is still a short period of time before the sun sets. I must attend to a matter of import. Do not depart
from the tunnels until I give you the word. Farewell for now, Vereesa Windrunner.

 Before she could protest, his voice had faded away. The ranger cursed under her breath. She had
accepted the spellcaster's questionable aid, now she had to obey his commands. Vereesa did not like at
all putting her life— not to mention Falstad's—in the hands of a wizard who commanded from the safety
of his far-off tower.

 Worse, the elf had just put their lives in the hands of the same wizard who had sent Rhonin on this insane
journey in thefirstplace . . . and seemingly left him to die.
SEVENTEEN



At some point on the journey to where the orcs intended to keep him prisoner, Rhonin had collapsed
back into unconsciousness. Admittedly, he had been aided in great part by his guards, who had used
every excuse to hit him or twist his arms agonizingly. The pain of his broken finger had seemed little
compared to what they had done to him by the time he blacked out.

 Yet now, at last, the wizard woke—and woke to the nightmare of a fiery skull with black eye sockets
smiling malevolently at him.

 Sheer reflex made the startled wizard attempt to pull away from the monstrous visage, but doing so only
rewarded Rhonin with more agony and the discovery that his wrists and ankles had been shackled tight.
Try as he might, he could not escape the near presence of the demonic horror looming above him.

 The fiend, though, did not move. Gradually, Rhonin fought down his horror and studied the motionless
creature closer. Far taller and broader than the human, it wore what seemed flaming bone for armor.
What he had taken for a sinister smile had actually simply been due to the fact that the demonic sentinel
had no flesh covering its visage. Fire surrounded it, but the mage felt no heat. Still, he suspected that if
those blazing skeletal hands touched him, the results would be very, very painful indeed.

For lack of any better thought, Rhonin tried to speak to the creature. “What—who are you?”

No reply. Other than the flickering flames, the macabre figure remained motionless.

“Can you hear me?”

Nothing again.

 Less fearful and more curious now, the wizard leaned forward as best his chains would let him.
Suspicious, he moved one leg back and forth as best he could. Still he received no response, not even a
shifting of the head toward his moving limb.

 As horrific as the creature looked, it seemed less of a living thing than a statue. Although demonic in
appearance, it could be no demon. Rhonin had studied golems, but had never seen one before, certainly
not one constantly ablaze. Still, he could think of it as nothing else.

 The wizard frowned, wondering at the golem's capabilities. In truth, he had only one way to find out . . .
and, after all, the wizard needed to escape.

Trying to ignore his pain, Rhonin started to move his remaining fingers ever so slightly for a spell that
would, he prayed, rid himself of the monstrous guard—

With astonishing swiftness, the fiery golem reached forward, seizing Rhonin's already maimed appendage
in a grip that completely enveloped it.

 A searing fire engulfed the human, but a fire within, one that burned at his verysoul.Rhonin screamed,
then screamed again. He screamed long and hard until he could scream no more.

Barely conscious, his head slumped over, he prayed for the inner fire to either end or consume him
utterly.

The golem removed its hand from his.

 The flames within dwindled away. Gasping, Rhonin managed to lift his head enough to look at the
horrific sentinel. The golem's grotesque mockery of a face stared right back, completely indifferent to the
tortures through which it had put its victim.

“Damn—damn you . . .”

Beyond the golem, a familiar chuckle made the hairs on the back of the mage's head stand on end.

“Naughty, naughty!” piped the high voice. “Play with fire, you get burned! Play with fire, you get
burned!”

 Rhonin tipped his head to the side—cautiously at first, then more when he saw that his monstrous
companion did not react. Near the entrance stood the wiry goblin Nekros had called Kryll, the same
goblin that Rhonin knew also worked for Deathwing.

 In fact, Kryll even now carried the medallion with the black crystal. The wizard marveled at the goblin's
arrogance. Surely Nekros would wonder why his minion still held on to Rhonin's talisman.

 Kryll noticed the direction of his gaze. “Master Nekros never saw you with it, human—and we goblins
are always picking up trinkets!”

There had to be more to it, though. “He's also too busy to notice, isn't he?”

“Clever, human, clever! And if you told him, he wouldn't listen! Poor, poor Master Nekros has much on
his mind! Moving dragons and eggs is quite a chore, you know!”

 The golem did not react at all to Kryll's presence, which did not surprise Rhonin. Unless the goblin
attempted to free the prisoner, it would leave Kryll alone.

“So you serve Deathwing . . .”

A frown momentarily escaped the creature. “His bidding I've done . . . yes. For very, very long . . .”

“Why've you come here? I've served your master's purpose, haven't I? I played his fool well, didn't I?”

 This, for some reason, cheered Kryll up again. His toothy smile wider than ever, he replied, “No greater
fool could there have been, for you played one for more than the dark lord. Played you one for me, too,
human!”

Rhonin could scarce believe him. “How did I do that? In what way did I serveyou,goblin?”
 “In much the same, much the same, as you did the dark lord—who thinks a goblin so low as to serve
any master without reason of his own!” A hint of what had to be bitterness escaped Kryll. “But I've
served enough, I have!”

Rhonin frowned. Could the mad little creature mean what the wizard thought he meant? “You plan to
betray even the dragon? How?”

The grotesque goblin fairly hopped in glee. “Poor, poor Master Nekros is in such a state! Dragons to
move, eggs to move, and stinking orcs to march around! Little time to think if that's what others actually
want him to do! Might've thought more, but now that the Alliance surely invades from the west, can't be
bothered! Has to act! Has to be an orc, you know!”

“You're not making any sense. . . .”

“Fool!” More laughter from the goblin. “You brought me this!” He held up the medallion, then gave
Rhonin a false frown. “Broken in fall—so Lord Deathwing thinks!”

 As the prisoner watched, Kryll began peeling away at the stone in the center. After a few moments of
effort, the gem popped out into the wiry goblin's hand. He held it up for Rhonin to see. “And with it—no
more Deathwing. . . .”

Rhonin could scarcely believe him. “No moreDeathwing?You hope to use that stone to bring him
down?”

 “Or make him serve Kryll! Yes, perhaps he shall serve me.” An exhalation of pure hatred escaped Kryll.
“. . . and no more toadying for the reptile! No more being his lackey! I planned long and hard for this, I
did, waiting and waiting and watching for when he'll be most vulnerable, yes!”

Fascinated despite himself, the captured spellcaster blurted, “But how?”

 Kryll backed toward the entrance. “Nekros will provide the way, not that he knows . . . and this?” He
tossed the stone into the air, then caught it again. “It is apartof the dark lord, human! A scale turned to
stone by his own magic! It must be so for the medallion to work! You know what it means to hold a part
of a dragon?”

 Rhonin's thoughts raced. What had he once heard? “‘To bear some bit of the greatest of the leviathans is
to have a hold on their power.’ But that's never been done! You need tremendous magic yourself to
make it work! Where—”

 The golem reacted to his sudden agitation. The ghoulish jaws opened and the skeletal hand started to
reach for Rhonin. The wizard immediately froze, not even breathing.

The fiery form paused, but did not withdraw. Rhonin continued to hold his breath, praying that the
monstrosity would back away.

 Kryll chuckled at his predicament. “But you're busy now, human! So sorry to overstay! Wanted to tell
someoneof my glory—someone who'll be dead soon enough, eh?” The goblin hopped away. “Must go!
Nekros will need my guidance again, yes, he will!”

Rhonin could hold his breath no longer. He exhaled, hoping that his hesitation had been enough.
A mistake.

 The golem reached for him—and all thought of the traitorous little Kryll vanished as the fires once more
consumed Rhonin from within.

 Darkness came all too slowly and yet in some ways too quickly for Vereesa. As Krasus had directed,
she had told no one about the medallion's purpose and, at further urging from Rom, had secreted it as
best she could within her garments. Her travel cloak, well-worn by this point, had managed to obscure it
for the most part, although anyone who looked closely would have at least been able to make out the
chain.

 Shortly after their return to the party, Rom had taken Gimmel aside and spoken with him. The elf had
noticed both briefly look her way. Rom evidently wanted his second to also know of Krasus's decision
and, judging by the other dwarf 's falling expression, Gimmel had not liked it any more than his chieftain.

The moment the light through the hole vanished, the dwarves began to methodically remove the stones.
Vereesa saw no reason why this rock or that one had to be taken away before another, but Rom's
people were adamant. She finally settled back, trying not to think of all the time wasted.

As the last of the stones were removed, the wizard's voice, sounding oddly haggard at first, echoed in
her head.

The way out . . . is it open, Vereesa Windrunner?

She had to turn away and pretend to cough in order to mumble, “Just finished.”

 Then you may proceed. Once outside, remove the talisman from wherever it is you have hidden it. That
will enable me to see what lies ahead. I will speak no more until you and the Aerie dwarf are out of the
tunnels.

 As she turned back, Falstad came up to her. “You ready, my elven lady? The hill dwarves want to be
rid of us quickly, seems to me.”

 In fact, Rom stood by the entrance even now, his dimly seen form impatiently gesturing for the pair to
climb out into the open. Vereesa and Falstad hurried past him, picking their way up to the widened hole
as best they could. The ranger's foot slipped once, but she managed to regain her ground. Above her, the
wind beckoned her on. She had no love for the underworld and hoped that circumstances would not
send her back there soon.

 Falstad, who had reached the top first, now extended a strong hand to help her up. With easy effort, he
lifted her high, then set her standing next to him.

The instant the two exited, the dwarves began filling up the hole. It dwindled rapidly inside even as
Vereesa got her bearings.

“So what do we do now?” asked Falstad. “Climb up that?”

 He indicated the base of the mountain, even in the dark of night clearly a sheer rock face for the first
several hundred feet up. Try as she might, the elf could not see any immediate opening, which puzzled
her. Rom had led her to believe that they would see it almost immediately.
She turned to call down to him, only to discover that barely any sign of the hole remained. Vereesa
knelt, then put an ear by the small gap. She could hear nothing at all.

 “Forget them, my elven lady. They've gone back into hiding.” Falstad's tone revealed a hint of contempt
for his hill cousins.

 Nodding, the elf finally recalled Krasus's instructions. Pulling her cloak aside, she removed the medallion
from hiding, placing it squarely on her chest. Vereesa assumed that the wizard would be able to see in the
dark, else he would be of little aid to them now.

“What's that?”

 “Help . . . I hope.” Krasus might have warned her not to tell anyone, but surely he did not expect her to
leave Falstad guessing. The dwarf might think her mad if she started talking to herself.

Everything is quite visible,the wizard announced, causing her to start.Thank you.

“What's wrong? Why did you jump?”

“Falstad, you know that the Kirin Tor sent Rhonin on a mission?”

“Aye, and not the foolish one he mentioned, either. Why?”

 “This medallion is from the wizard who chose him, who sent him on his true quest—part of which, I
think, required Rhonin to enter the mountain.”

“For what reason?” He did not sound at all surprised.

“That has not been made completely clear to me so far. As for this medallion, it enables one of those
wizards, Krasus, to speak with me.”

“But I can't hear anything.”

“That, unfortunately, is how it works.”

“Typical wizardry,” the dwarf remarked, using the same tone of voice he had used when commenting on
his hill cousins' deficiencies.

You had best move on,suggested Krasus.Time is, as they say, of the essence.

“Did something just happen to you? You jumped again!”

“As I said, you cannot hear him, but I can. He wants us to move on. He says he can guide us!”

“He can see?”

“Through the crystal.”

Falstad walked up to the medallion, thrusting a finger at the stone. “I swear by the Aerie that if you play
us false, my ghost'll hunt you down, spellcaster! I swear it!”
Tell the dwarf our goals are similar.

Vereesa repeated the statement to Falstad, who grudgingly accepted it. The elf, too, had reservations,
ones she kept to herself. Krasus had said that their goals were “similar.” That did not mean that they
were one and the same.

 Despite those thoughts, she passed on Krasus's first instructions to the letter, assuming that he would at
least get them inside. His directions seemed peculiar at first, for they forced the pair to circumnavigate
part of the mountain in a manner that seemed far too time-consuming. However, the wizard then led them
along an easier path that quickly brought them to a tall but narrow cave mouth that Vereesa assumedhad
to be their way in. If not, then she would certainly have a word with their dubious guide.

An old dwarven mine,Krasus said.The orcs think it leads nowhere.

 Vereesa studied it as best she could in the dark. “Why have Rom and his people not used it if it leads
inside?”

Because they have been patiently waiting.

She wanted to ask what they waited for, but suddenly Falstad grabbed at her arm.

“Hear that!” the gryphon-rider whispered. “Something coming!”

 They backed behind an outcropping—just in time. A fearsome shape strode purposefully toward the
area of the cave, hissing as it came. Vereesa noted a draconic head peering around, red orbs faintly
glowing in the night.

“And there's an even better reason why they've not used that way before,” Falstad muttered. “Knew it
was too good to be true!”

The dragon's head stiffened. The beast turned toward the general direction of the two.

You must remain silent. A dragon's ears can be very sharp.

The elf did not bother to relay that unnecessary knowledge. Gripping her sword, she watched as the
behemoth took a few steps toward where they hid. Not nearly so great in size as Deathwing, but
nonetheless large enough to dispatch her and Falstad with ease.

Wings suddenly stretched behind the head—wings that, with her night vision, the ranger could see had
developed malformed. Small wonder this dragon acted as guard dog for the orcs.

 And where was its handler, for that matter? The orcs never left a dragon alone, even one cursed never
to fly.

 A barked command quickly answered that question. From far behind the beast came a floating torch
that gradually revealed itself to be in the hand of a hulking orc. In his other hand he carried a sword
nearly as long as Vereesa. The guard yelled something to the dragon, who hissed furiously. The orc
repeated his order.

 Slowly, the beast began to turn from where the pair hid. Vereesa held her breath, hoping that the warrior
and his hound would hurry off.
At that moment, the gem in the medallion suddenly flared so bright it lit up the entire area around the
outcropping.

“Smother that!” Falstad whispered.

 The ranger tried, but it was already too late. Not only did the dragon turn back, but this time the orc
reacted, too. Torch and blade before him, he started toward their hiding place. The crimson leviathan
stalked behind him, ready to move at his command.

Remove the medallion from around your neck,Krasus commanded.Be prepared to throw it in the
direction of the dragon.

“But—”

Do it.

Quickly removing the talisman, Vereesa readied it in her hand. Falstad glanced at his companion, but
held his tongue.

 The orc drew nearer. Alone, he represented enough of a challenge, but with the dragon at his side, the
ranger and her companion had little hope.

Tell the dwarf to step out, reveal himself.

 “He wants you to go out there, Falstad,” she muttered, not sure why she even bothered to tell the dwarf
such folly.

“Would he prefer I walk into the mouth of the dragon or just lie down in front of the beast and let it
gnaw on me at its leisure?”

There is little time.

Again she repeated the wizard's words. Falstad blinked, took a deep breath, and nodded.
Stormhammer ready, he slipped around Vereesa and past the protection of the rocks.

The dragon roared. The orc grunted, tusked mouth widening in an anticipatory grin.

“Dwarf!” he growled. “Good! Was gettin' bored out here! You'll make good sport before you're fed to
Zarasz here! He's been feelin' hungry!”

“'Tis you and yours who'll make for good sport, pigface! I was getting a little cool out here! Crushing in
your thick skull will warm my bones up, all right!”

Both orc and beast advanced.

Throw the talisman at the dragon now. Be certain it lands near the vicinity of his mouth.

 The command sounded so absurd that at first Vereesa doubted that she had heard correctly. Then it
occurred to her that perhaps Krasus could cast a spell through the medallion, one that would at least
incapacitate the savage creature.
Throw it now, before your friend loses his life.

 Falstad! The ranger leapt out, surprising both sentries. She took one fast glance at the orc—then, with
expert aim, threw the medallion at the mouth of the dragon.

The dragon stretched forward with equally amazing accuracy, catching the talisman in his jaws.

Vereesa swore. Surely Krasus had not expected that.

 However, a peculiar thing happened, one that caused all three warriors to pause. Instead of either
swallowing or tossing aside the medallion, the leviathan stood still, cocking his head. In his mouth, a red
aura erupted, but one that seemed to have no ill effect on the dragon.

To everyone's bewilderment, the behemothsat down.

Not at all pleased by this turn, the orc shouted a command. The dragon, however, did not seem to hear
him, instead looking as if he listened to another voice far away.

“Your hound's found a toy to play with, orc!” mocked Falstad. “Looks like you'll have to fight your own
battles for once!”

In response, the tusked warrior thrust his torch forward, nearly setting the dwarf 's beard ablaze.
Cursing, Falstad brought his stormhammer into play, coming close to crushing the orc's outstretched arm.
That, in turn, enabled the guard to make a jab with his sword.

Vereesa stood undecided. She wanted to help Falstad, but did not know if at any moment the dragon
might suddenly break out of his peculiar trance and rejoin his handler. If that happened, someone had to
be ready to face the beast.

The dwarf and his adversary traded blows, the torch and sword evening matters against the hammer.
The orc tried to drive Falstad back, no doubt hoping that his foe would trip on the highly uneven ground.

The elf took one more look at the dragon. He still had his head cocked to the side. The eyes were open,
but they seemed to be staring off.

 Steeling herself, Vereesa turned from the leviathan and headed to Falstad's rescue. If the dragon
attacked them, so be it. She could not risk letting her comrade die.

 The orc sensed her coming, for as she thrust at him, he swung the torch around. Vereesa gasped as the
flames came within scant inches of her face.

 Yet her coming forced the guard to fight on two fronts, and because of this, his attempt to burn her had
left him open. Falstad needed no urging to take advantage of it. The hammer came down.

 A guttural cry from the orc nearly smothered the sound of bone cracking. The sword slipped from the
tusked warrior's quivering hand. The hammer had shattered the arm at the elbow, leaving the entire arm
useless.

 Fueled by both pain and fury, the crippled guard shoved the torch into Falstad's chest. The dwarf
stumbled back, trying to beat out the fires smoldering on both his beard and chest. His brutish foe tried to
advance, but the elf cut him off.

“Little elf!” he snarled. “Burn you, too!”

 Between the torch and his own lengthy arm, his reach far exceeded her own. Vereesa ducked twice as
the fire came at her. She had to end this quickly, before the orc managed to catch her off guard.

 When he swung at her next, she aimed not for him, but rather for the torch. That meant letting the flames
come perilously near. The orc's savage face twisted into an expression of anticipation as he thrust.

The tip of her sword dug into the wood, ripping it from the startled sentry's fingers. Her success far
better than expected, Vereesa fell forward, pushing the torch with her.

The fire caught the orc full in the face. He roared in pain, brushing the torch away. The damage had been
done, though. His eyes, nose, and most of his upper countenance had been seared by the heat. He could
no longer see.

Acting with some guilt, but knowing she had to silence him, Vereesa ran the blind orc through, cutting off
his pained cries.

“By the Aerie!” snapped Falstad. “Thought I'd never put myself out!”

Still gasping, the elf managed, “Are—are you—all right?”

“Saddened at the loss of so many good years' beard growth, but I'll get over it! What's the matter with
our overgrown hound there?”

 The dragon had dropped down on all fours now, as if preparing to sleep. The medallion still lay in his
mouth, but, as they watched, he gently dropped it to the ground before him—then looked at the pair as if
expecting one of them to retrieve it.

“Does he want us to do what I think he wants us to do, my elven lady?”

“I am afraid so . . . and I know by whose suggestion, too.” She started toward the expectant behemoth.

“You're not seriously going to try to pick it up, are you?”

“I have no choice.”

As the ranger neared, the dragon peered down at her. Dragons were rumored to see very well in the
dark, and had an even greater sense of smell. This close, Vereesa would surely not escape.

Using the edge of her cloak, she gingerly picked up the talisman. Left so long in the dragon's mouth, it
dripped with saliva. With some disgust, the elf wiped it off as best she could on the ground.

The gem suddenly glowed.

The way is clear,came Krasus's monotone voice.Best you hurry before others come.

“What did you do to this monster?” she muttered.
I spoke with him. He understands now. Hurry. Others will eventually come.

The dragon understood? Vereesa wanted to ask the wizard more, but knew by now that he would give
her no satisfactory answer. Still, he had somehow done the impossible, and for that she had to thank him.

 She replaced the chain around her neck, letting the talisman once more dangle free. To Falstad, the
ranger simply said, “We are to move on.”

Still shaking his head at the sight of the dragon, the dwarf followed after her.

 Krasus remained true to his word. He guided them through the abandoned mine, leading them at last
down a passage that Vereesa would have never thought led the way into the mountain fortress. It forced
the pair to climb a tight and quite precarious side passage, but at last they entered the upper level of a
fairly spacious underground cavern.

A cavern filled with scurrying orcs.

 From the ledge on which they crouched, they could see the fearsome warriors packing away material
and filling wagons. On one side, a handler put a young dragon through the paces, while a second handler
looked to be preparing for imminent departure.

“Looks as if they're all planning to leave!”

It seemed so to her as well. She leaned over for a better look.

It worked . . .

 Krasus had spoken, but Vereesa knew immediately from his tone that his words had only been meant
for himself. Likely he did not even know that he had said anything out loud. Had he planned somehow to
make the orcs depart Grim Batol? Despite her surprise at the wizard's handling of the dragon, the elf
doubted that he could havethismuch influence.

 The one dragon readied for flight suddenly moved toward the main mouth of the cavern. His handler
finished strapping himself in and readied for flight. Unlike in combat, this dragon was laden with supplies.

 She leaned back again, thinking. While in many ways the abandoning of Grim Batol meant great things to
the Alliance, it left too many questions and more than a few worries. What need would the orcs have for
Rhonin if they departed here? Surely they would not bother to bring an enemy wizard along.

And did they really intend to moveallthe dragons?

 She had waited for Krasus to give them their next steps, but the wizard remained eerily silent. Vereesa
looked around, trying to decide by which path they might quickest find where Rhonin was being held . . .
assuming all along that he had not already been slain.

Falstad put a hand on her shoulder. “Down there! See him?”

She followed his gaze—and saw the goblin. He scurried along another cavern ledge, heading for an
opening far to their left.

“'Tis Kryll! Can be no other!”
The elf, too, felt certain of it. “He knows his way around here well, it seems!”

“Aye! That's why he led us to their allies, the trolls!”

But why had the goblin not let them be captured by the orcs? Why turn them over instead to the
murderous trolls? Surely the orcs would have been interested in questioning the pair.

 Enough wondering. She had an idea. “Krasus! Can you show us how to get down to where that goblin
is heading?”

No voice echoed in her head.

“Krasus?”

“What's wrong?”

“The wizard seems not to be responding.”

Falstad snorted. “So we're on our own?”

“For now, it seems.” She straightened. “The ledge over there. It should take us where we want to go.
The orcs would want the tunnels to be fairly consistent.”

“So we go on without the wizard. Good. I like that better.”

Vereesa nodded grimly. “Yes, we go on without the wizard—but not our little friend Kryll.”




EIGHTEEN



Too slow. They were much too slow.

Nekros shoved a peon forward with an angry grunt, urging the worthless, lower-caste orc to quicker
work. The other orc cringed, then scurried off with his burden.

The lower-caste orcs were useless for anything but menial labor, and right now Nekros found them
wanting even in that one skill. As it was, he had been forced to make the warriors work alongside them in
order to get everything accomplished by dawn. Nekros had actually considered leaving in the dead of
night, but that had no longer been possible and he certainly had not wanted to wait another day. Each
day no doubt brought invasion nearer, although his scouts, clearly blind to reality, insisted that they so far
had found no more traces of an advance force, much less an army. Never mind that Alliance warriors on
gryphons had already been sighted, a wizard had found his way into the mountain, and the most dire of all
dragons now served the enemy. Simply because the scouts could not see them did not mean that the
humans and their allies were not already nearing Grim Batol.

 Still in the midst of trying to get the menials to understand the urgency of their packing, the maimed orc
did not at first notice his chief handler come up. Only when he heard an uncomfortable clearing of the
throat did Nekros turn.

“Speak, Brogas! Why do you skulk like one of these wretches?”

 The slightly stout younger orc grimaced. His tusks tended to turn down at the sides, giving his already
frowning face an even more dour look. “The male . . . Nekros, I think he dies soon!”

More bad news and some of the worst possible! “Let's see this!”

 They hurried as fast as they could, Brogas carefully maintaining a pace that would not make his
superior's handicap more evident. Nekros, however, had greater concerns on his mind. In order to
continue the breeding program, he needed a femaleanda male. Without one or the other, he had nothing .
. . and Zuluhed would not like that.

 They came at last to the cavern in which had been housed the eldest and only surviving consort of
Alexstrasza. Tyranastrasz had surely been a most impressive sight when compared to other dragons.
Nekros gathered that at one point the old crimson male had even rivaled Deathwing in size and power,
although perhaps that had simply been legend. Nonetheless, the consort still filled the massive chamber
quite ably, so much so that at first the orc leader could not believe that such a giant could possibly be ill.

Yet the moment he heard the dragon's unsteady breathing, he knew the truth. Tyran, as all called him,
had suffered several seizures in the past year. The orc had once assumed that dragons were immortal,
only dying when slain in battle; but he had discovered over time that they had other limitations, such as
disease. Something within this venerable behemoth had stricken Tyran with a slow but fatal ailment.

“How long's the beast been like that?”

Brogas swallowed. “Since last night, on and off . . . but he looked better a few hours ago!”

Nekros whirled on his handler. “Fool! Should've told me sooner!”

 He almost struck the other orc, then considered how useless it would have been to have had the
knowledge. He had suspected for some time he would lose the elder dragon, but had just not wanted to
admit it.

“What do we do, Nekros? Zuluhed'll be furious! Our skulls'll sit atop poles!”

 Nekros frowned. He, too, had conjured up that image in his mind . . . and not liked it one bit, of course.
“We've no choice! Get him prepared for moving! He comes, dead or alive! Let Zuluhed do what he
will!”

“But, Nekros—”

Now the one-legged orcdidstrike his subordinate. “Simpering fool! Obey orders!”

 Subdued, Brogas nodded and rushed off, no doubt to beat the lesser handlers while they worked to
fulfill Nekros's commands. Yes, Tyran would be coming with the rest, whether or not he still breathed. At
the very least he would serve as a decoy . . . .

Taking a step nearer, Nekros studied the great male in detail. The mottled scales, the inconsistent
breathing, the lack of movement . . . no, Alexstrasza's consort did not have long left in the world—

“Nekros . . .” rumbled the Dragonqueen's voice suddenly. “Nekros . . . I smell you near. . . .”

Willing to use any excuse to not think of what Tyran's passing might mean to his own skin, the heavyset
orc made his way to the female's chamber. As his usual precaution, he reached into his belt pouch and
kept one hand on theDemon Soul.

 Through slitted eyes, Alexstrasza watched him enter. She, too, had seemed somewhat ill of late, but
Nekros refused to believe that he would lose her, too. More likely she knew that her last consort might
soon be dead. Nekros wished one of the other two had survived; they had been much younger, more
virile, than Tyran.

“What now, o queen?”

“Nekros, why do you persist in this madness?”

 He grunted. “Is that all you wanted of me, female? I've more important things to do than answer your
silly questions!”

 The dragon snorted. “All your efforts will only lead to your death. You have the chance to save yourself
and your men, but you will not take it!”

 “We're not craven, backstabbing scum like Orgrim Doomhammer! Dragonmaw clan fights to the bloody
end, even if it be our own!”

“Trying to flee to the north? That is how you fight?”

Nekros Skullcrusher brought out theDemon Soul.“There're things you don't even know, ancient one!
There're times when flight leads to fight!”

Alexstrasza sighed. “There is no getting through to you, is there, Nekros?”

“At last you learn.”

 “Tell me this, then. What were you doing in Tyran's chamber? What ails him now?” Both the dragon's
eyes and tone of voice were filled with her concern for her consort.

 “Nothing for you to worry your head about, o queen! Better to think of yourself. We'll be moving you
soon. Behave, and it'll be much more painless. . . .”

 With that said, he pocketed theDemon Souland left her. The Dragonqueen called his name once, no
doubt to again implore him to tell her about the health of her mate, but Nekros could no longer spend
time worrying about dragons—at least notredones.

 Even though the column would likely leave Grim Batol before the Alliance invaders reached it, the orc
commander knew with absolute certainty that one creature would still arrive in time to wreak havoc.
Deathwing would come. The black leviathan would be there come the morning—if only because of one
thing.

Alexstrasza . . .The black dragon would come for his rival.

“Let them all come!” snarled the orc to himself.“Allof them! All I need is for the dark one to be first. . . .”
He patted the pouch where he kept theDemon Soul.“. . . and then Deathwing will do the rest!”

 Consciousness returned to Rhonin, albeit barely at first. Yet, even as weakened as he felt, the wizard
immediately remained still, recalling what had happened to him the last time. He did not want the golem
sending him back to oblivion—especially since Rhonin feared that this time he would not come back.

As his strength returned, the imprisoned spellcaster cautiously opened his eyes.

The fiery golem was nowhere to be seen.

Stunned, Rhonin lifted his head, eyes opening wide.

No sooner had he done this when suddenly the very air before him flared and hundreds of minute balls
of fire exploded into being. The fiery orbs swirled around, quickly combining, forming a vaguely
humanoid shape that sharpened in the space of a breath.

 The massive golem re-formed in all its grotesque glory. Expecting the worst, Rhonin lowered his head,
shutting his eyes at the same time. He waited for the magical creature's horrific touch . . . and waited and
waited. At last, when curiosity finally got the better of his fear, the wary mage slowly, carefully, opened
one eye just enough to see.

The golem had vanished again.

 So. Rhonin remained under its watchful gaze even if now he could not see it. Nekros clearly played
games with him, although perhaps Kryll had somehow arranged this latest trickery. The wizard's hopes
faded.

Perhaps it would be better this way. After all, had he not thought that his death might better serve those
who had died because of him? Would that not at last satisfy his own feelings of guilt?

 Unable to do anything else, Rhonin hung there, paying no attention to the passage of minutes nor the
continual sounds of the orcs finishing their preparations for departure. When he chose to, Nekros would
return and either take the wizard with him or, more likely, question Rhonin one last time before executing
him.

And Rhonin could do nothing.

 At some point after he closed his eyes again, weariness took hold and led him into a more gentle
slumber. Rhonin dreamed of many things—dragons, ghouls, dwarves . . . and Vereesa. Dreaming of the
elf soothed some of his troubled thoughts. He had known her only a short time, but more and more he
found her face popping up in his thoughts. In another time and place, perhaps he could have gotten to
know her better.

 The elf became the center point of his dreaming, so much so that Rhonin could even hear her voice. She
called his name over and over, at first longingly, then, when he did not reply, with more urgency—
 “Rhonin!”Her voice grew distant, just a whisper now, yet somehow it also seemed to have more
substance to it.

“Rhonin!”

This time her call actually stirred him from his dreams, pulled him from his slumber. Rhonin fought at first,
having no desire at all to return to the reality of his cell and his imminent death.

“He doesn't answer. . . .”muttered another voice, not at all as soft and musical as Vereesa's. The wizard
vaguely recognized it, and the knowledge brought him further toward a waking state.

 “Perhaps that is how they can keep him secure with only chains and no bars,”the elf replied.“It looks as
if you told the truth. . . .”

“I would not lie to you, kind mistress! I would not lie to you!”

 And that last, shrill voice did what the other two could not. Rhonin threw aside the last vestiges of sleep .
. . and just barely kept himself from shouting out.

 “Let's get this done, then,”Falstad the dwarf muttered. The footsteps that followed indicated immediately
to the wizard that the dwarf and others headed toward him.

He opened his eyes.

 Vereesa and Falstad did indeed enter the chamber, the elf 's arresting visage full of concern. The ranger
had her sword drawn, and around her neck she wore what almost looked like the medallion Deathwing
had given Rhonin, save that this one had a stone of crimson where the other had been as black as the
soul of the sinister leviathan.

Beside her, the dwarf had his hammer sheathed on his back. For a weapon, he carried a long
dagger—the tip of which presently touched the throat of a snarlingKryll.

The sight of the first two, especially Vereesa, filled Rhonin with hope—

Behind the tiny rescue party, the fire golem re-formed in complete silence.

“Look out!” the dismayed wizard shouted, his voice raspy from so many previous screams.

 Vereesa and Falstad dropped to opposing sides as the monstrous skeletal figure reached for them.
Tossed by the dwarf, Kryll slid toward the very wall where Rhonin had been chained. The goblin swore
as he bounced hard against the rock.

 Falstad rose first, throwing his dagger at the golem— who completely ignored the blade that clattered
against the bony armor—then pulling free his stormhammer. He swung at the inhuman sentinel even as
Vereesa leapt to her feet to join in the attack.

 Still weak, Rhonin could not do anything at the moment but watch. The ranger and the dwarf came at
their fiendish adversary from opposing directions, trying to force the golem into a fatal mistake.

Unfortunately, Rhonin doubted that they could even slay the creature by mortal means.
 Falstad's first swing pushed the monster back a step, but on the second one, the golem seized hold of
the upper handle. The gryphon-rider became embroiled in a horrible tug-of-war as the golem tried to pull
him toward it.

“Thehands!”the mage gasped. “Watch the hands!”

Burning, fleshless fingers grabbed for Falstad as he came within range. The desperate dwarf let go of his
precious hammer, tumbling out of immediate reach of his foe.

Vereesa darted forward, thrusting. Her elven blade did little against the macabre armor, which easily
deflected it. The golem turned toward her, then threw the stormhammer in her direction.

 The ranger nimbly leapt aside, but now she found herself the only one with any sort of defense against
the inhuman guard. Vereesa thrust twice more, nearly losing her blade the second time. The golem,
apparently impervious to edged weapons, attempted with each attack to seize the sword by the blade.

His friends were losing . . . and Rhonin had done nothing to help.

It only grew worse. Having regained his balance, Falstad started for his hammer.

The mouth of the ghoulish warrior opened incredibly wide—

A fearsome spout of black fire nearly engulfed Falstad. Only at the last did he manage to roll away, but
not before his clothing had been singed.

That left Vereesa alone and in the direct path of the golem.

Frustration tore at Rhonin. She would die if he did nothing. Theyallwould die if he did nothing.

 He had to free himself. Summoning his strength as best he could, the battered spellcaster called up a
spell. With the golem occupied, Rhonin had the chance to concentrate on his efforts. All he needed was a
moment more. . . .

 Success! The shackles holding his limbs burst open, clattering against the rocky wall. Gasping, Rhonin
stretched his arms once, then focused on the golem—

A heavy weight struck him on the upper back. An intense pressure on Rhonin's throat cut off all air.

“Naughty, naughty wizard! Don't you know you're supposed todie?”

Kryll had a hold around Rhonin's throat that stunned the wizard completely. He had known that goblins
were far stronger than they appeared, but Kryll's might bordered on the fantastic.

“That's it, human . . . give in . . . fall to your knees. . . .”

 Rhonin almost wanted to do just that. The lack of air had his mind spinning, and that, coupled with the
tortures he had suffered at the hands of the golem, nearly did him in. Yet, if he fell, so, too, would
Vereesa and Falstad . . . .

Concentrating, he reached a hand back to the murderous goblin.
With a high shriek, Kryll released his hold and dropped to the floor. Rhonin fell against the wall, trying to
get his breath back and hoping that Kryll would not take advantage of his weakness.

He need not have worried. Burned on his arm, the goblin hopped away from Rhonin, cursing. “Foul, foul
wizard! Damn your magic ways! Will leave you to my friend here, leave you to feel his tender touch!”

Kryll hopped toward the exit, laughing darkly at the intruders' fate.

The golem paused in his struggle with Vereesa and the dwarf, his deathly gaze shifting to the escaping
Kryll. His jaws opened—

A burst of ebony fire shot forth from the skeletal maw, completely enveloping the unsuspecting goblin.

 With a mercifully short cry, Kryll perished in a ball of flame, so quickly incinerated by the magical fire
that only ash drifted to the floor . . . ash and the ruined medallion the goblin had carried in his belt pouch.

“He slew the little wretch!” Falstad marveled.

 “And we are certain to be next!” reminded the elf. “Even though I feel no heat, my blade has half turned
to slag from the flames surrounding his body, and I doubt I can dodge him much longer!”

“Aye, if I could get my hammer I might be able to do something, but—look out!”

 Again the golem unleashed a blast, but this time at the ceiling. The furious column of flame did more than
heat the rock, though. As it struck, the flamesshatteredthe ceiling, sending massive chunks down on the
trio.

 One caught Vereesa on the arm, hitting with such violence that the ranger dropped to the floor. The
torrent forced Falstad away from her and prevented Rhonin from even trying to make any move in her
direction.

The fiery golem focused on the fallen elf. The jaws opened again—

“No!”Utilizing raw will, Rhonin countered, throwing up a shield as powerful as any he had ever created.

The dark flames struck the invisible barrier with their full fury . . . and rebounded back at the golem.

 Rhonin would not have expected the creature's own weapon to have any effect on it, but the flames not
only took hold of their wielder, they coursed over him with hunger. A roar erupted from the golem's
fleshless throat, an ungodly, inhuman roar.

 The monstrous creature quivered—then exploded, unleashing magical forces of hurricane proportion into
the tiny mountain chamber.

Unable to withstand those forces, what remained of the ceiling collapsed atop the defenders.

***

 In the dark of night, the dragon Deathwing flew east across the sea. Swifter than the wind, he headed
toward Khaz Modan and, more significantly, Grim Batol. The dragon actually smiled to himself, a sight
that any other creature would have turned from in mortal terror. All went as intended in every venture.
His plans for the humans had moved along so very smoothly. Why, just hours ago, he had received a
missive from Terenas, outlining how just a week after “Lord Prestor's” coronation, word would go out
that the new monarch of Alterac would be wedding the king of Lordaeron's young daughter the day she
turned of age. Just a few scant years—the blink of an eye in the life of a dragon—and he would be in
place to set about the annihilation of the humans. After them, the elves and dwarves, older and without
the vigor of humanity, would fall like the leaves on a dying tree.

 He would savor those days well, come the future. Now, however, Deathwing attended to a more
immediate and even more gratifying situation. The orcs prepared to abandon their mountain fortress. By
dawn, they would be moving the wagons out, heading for the Horde's last stronghold in Dun Algaz.

With them would go the dragons.

 The orcs expected an Alliance invasion from the west. At the very least, they expected gryphon-riders
and wizards . . . and one black giant. Deathwing had no intention of disappointing Nekros Skullcrusher
on that account. From Kryll, he knew that the one-legged orc had something in mind. The dragon looked
forward to seeing what folly the puny creature planned. He suspected he knew, but it would be
interesting to find out if an orc could have an original thought for a change.

The dim outline of Khaz Modan's shore came up on the horizon. Better equipped to see in the dark,
Deathwing banked slightly, heading more to the north. Only a couple of hours remained until sunrise. He
would have plenty of time to reach his chosen perch. From there, the dragon would be able to watch and
wait, choose just the right moment.

Alter the course of the future.


Another dragon flew, too, a dragon who had not flown in many years. The sensations of unfettered flight
thrilled him, yet they also served to remind just how out of practice he had become. What should have
been completely natural, what should have been an inherent part of his very being, seemed out of place.

Korialstrasz the dragon had been Krasus the wizard for far too long.

 Had it been daylight already, those who would have witnessed his passing would have noted a dragon of
great, if not gargantuan, proportions, larger than most, but certainly not one of the five Aspects. A brilliant
blood-red and sleek of form, in his youth Korialstrasz had been considered quite handsome for his kind.
Certainly he had caught the eye of his queen. Swift, deadly, and quick of thought in battle, the crimson
giant had also been among her greatest defenders, protecting the honor of the flight and becoming her
foremost servant when it came to dealing with the new, upcoming races.

 Even before the capture of his beloved Alexstrasza, he had spent most of his later years in the form of
the wizard Krasus, generally only reverting to his true self when secretly visiting her. As one of her
younger consorts, he had not held the position of authority that Tyranastrasz had, but Korialstrasz had
known that he had yet held a special place in the heart of his queen. That had been why he had
volunteered in the first place to be her primary agent among the most promising and diverse of the new
races—humanity— helping to guide it to maturity whenever possible.

 Alexstrasza no doubt thought him dead. After her capture and the subjugation of the rest of the
dragonflight, he had seen his own subterfuge as the only way to continue the struggle. Return fully to the
guise of Krasus and aid the Alliance in its war against the orcs. It had disheartened him to have to assist
in the death of his own blood, but the young drakes raised by the Horde knew little of their kind's past
glory, rarely ever living long enough to grow out of their bloodlust and begin to learn the wisdom that had
ever truly been a dragon's legacy. In aiding the elf and dwarf in their bid for entry into the mountain, he
had been fortunate enough to speak into the mind of one of those youngsters, calming the drake and
explaining what had to be done. That the other dragon had listened had been heartening. Some hope
remained for at least one.

 But so much still had to be done, enough so that, once more, Korialstrasz had turned his back on the
mortals and left them to their own devices. The moment he had viewed the wagons through the
medallion, heard the barked order from the orc officers, he had realized that all for which he had
struggled was about to come to fruition. The orcs had taken the bait and were departing from Grim
Batol. They would be moving his beloved Alexstrasza into the open—where he could at last rescue her.

Even then, it would not be simple. It would require guile, timing, and, of course, pure luck.

 That Deathwing lived and clearly plotted the downfall of the Lordaeron Alliance had presented itself as a
new and terrible concern, one that had, for a time, threatened the upheaval of everything for which
Korialstrasz had planned. Yet, from what he had discovered as Krasus, it seemed that Deathwing had
become too immersed in the politics of the Alliance to even concern himself with the distant orcs and
what remained of the once proud red flight of dragons. No, Deathwing played his own game of chess,
with the various kingdoms as pieces. Left to his own devices, he would surely cause war and devastation
among them. Fortunately, such a game required years, and so Korialstrasz felt little concern for the
humans back in Lordaeron and beyond. Their situation could wait until he had freed his beloved.

 However, if the fleet dragon could ignore the growing threat to the very lands he had taken under his
wing, one other matter still gnawed at his thoughts until he could ignore it no longer. Rhonin—and the two
who had gone in search of him—had trusted in Krasus the wizard, not knowing that to Korialstrasz the
dragon, the rescue of his queen meant more than life itself. The lives of three mortals had seemed of very
little consequence in comparison to that—or so he had thought until recently.

Guilt wracked the dragon. Guilt not only for his betrayal of Rhonin, but also his neglect of the elf and the
dwarf after promising to guide them inside.

 Rhonin had likely been slain some time ago, but perhaps it was not too late to save the other two. The
crimson leviathan knew that he would not be able to concentrate on his quest until he had at least satisfied
himself with doing what he could for them.

 On the very tip of southwestern Khaz Modan, only a few hours from Ironforge, Korialstrasz picked out
a secluded peak in the midst of the mountain chain there and alighted. He took a few moments to orient
himself, then shut his eyes and focused on the medallion that he had made Rom give to the ranger,
Vereesa.

 Although she likely thought the stone in the center only a gem, it was, in fact, a very part of the dragon.
Fashioned through magic into its present form, it had begun its existence as one of his scales. The
ensorcelled scale bore properties that would have astounded any mage—if they had known how to cast
dragon magic. Fortunately for Korialstrasz, few did, else he would not have risked creating the medallion
in the first place. Both Rom and the elf clearly believed the gem only useful for communication purposes,
and the dragon had no intention of correcting their misconceptions.

 As the wind howled and snow buffeted the great behemoth, Korialstrasz folded his wings near his head,
the better to shield it while he concentrated. He pictured the elf as he had seen her through the talisman.
Pleasant to look at for one of her kind, and clearly concerned for Rhonin. A very capable warrior, too.
Yes, perhaps she still lived, her and the dwarf from the Aeries.

 “Vereesa Windrunner . . .” he quietly called. “Vereesa Windrunner!” Korialstrasz closed his eyes, trying
to focus his inner sight. Curiously, he could see nothing. The medallion should have enabled him to see
whatever the elf pointed it toward. Had she hidden it from view?

“Vereesa Windrunner . . . make some sound, however slight, to acknowledge that you hear me.”

Still nothing.

“Elf!” For the first time, the dragon nearly lost his composure. “Elf!”

 And still no reply, no image. Korialstrasz focused his full concentration on the medallion, trying to listen
for any sound, even the snarls of an orc.

Nothing.

 Too late . . . his sudden act of conscience had come too late to save Rhonin's rescuers, and now they,
too, had perished because of the dragon's lack of thought.

 As Krasus, he had played on Rhonin's guilt, played on the memories of those companions that the
wizard had lost during his previous mission. It had made Rhonin quite malleable. Now, however, he
began to understand just how the human had felt. Alexstrasza had always talked of the younger races in
tones of caring, of nurturing, as if they, too, were her children. That care she had infected her consort
with, and as Krasus he had worked hard to see to it that the humans matured properly. However, his
queen's capture by the orcs had shaken his thinking to its very foundations and caused Korialstrasz to
forget her teachings . . . until now.

Yet, it had still come much too late for these three.

 “But it is not too late for you, my queen,” the dragon rumbled. Should he survive this, he would dedicate
his life to making up for his failure to Rhonin and the others. For now, though, all that mattered was the
rescue of his mate. She would understand . . . he hoped.

Spreading his wings wide, the majestic red dragon took to the air, heading north.

To Grim Batol.




NINETEEN



 Nekros Skullcrusher turned from the devastation, grim but determined not to let it lead him astray from
his intentions.
 “So much for the wizard . . .” he muttered, trying not to think of what spell the human could have
possibly cast that had, in the process, also destroyed the seemingly invincible golem. Clearly very
powerful, so much so that it had not only cost the wizard his life, but had brought down the mountain on
an entire section of tunnels.

“Dig the body out?” asked one of the warriors.

“No. Waste of time.” Nekros clutched the pouch with theDemon Soul,thinking ahead to the culmination
of his desperate plans. “We leave Grim Batolnow.”

 The other orcs followed him, most still uneasy about this sudden decision to depart the fortress but not at
all enamored with the idea of staying behind—especially if the wizard's spell had weakened the remaining
tunnel systems.


An incredible pressure pushed down on Rhonin's head, a pressure so immense he felt as if at any moment
his skull would burst open. With some effort, he forced his eyes open, trying to see if he could find out
what pressed on him and how he could quickly remove it.

Turning his blurry gaze upward, he gasped.

 An avalanche of rock—literally a ton and more— floated just a foot or so above his head. A dim
radiance, the only visible sign of the shield he had cast earlier, revealed the one reason why he had not
been crushed to pulp.

 The pressure in his head, he realized, had been some part of his mind that had managed to keep the spell
intact and, thereby, saved his life. The increasing pain, however, served to tell the trapped mage that with
each passing second the spell weakened.

 He shifted, trying to make himself more comfortable in the hope that it would relieve some of the
pressure— and felt something pressing against the bottom of his head. Rhonin carefully reached down to
remove it, assuming it to be some pebble. However, the moment his fingers touched it, he felt a slight hint
of magic.

 Curiosity momentarily shifting his attention from the horror above him, Rhonin pulled the object near
enough to see.

A black gemstone. Surely the same stone that had once been set in the center of Deathwing's medallion.

Rhonin frowned. The last time he had seen the medallion had been after Kryll's death. At the time, he
had not paid any attention to the stone, his mind more concerned with the danger to Vereesa and—

Vereesa!The elf 's face blossomed full into his thoughts. She and the dwarf had been farther away,
protected by the initial spell, but—

 He shifted, trying to see. However, as he moved, the pressure in his head multiplied and the stones
above dropped a few precious inches more.

At the same time, he heard a deep-voiced curse.

“F-Falstad?” Rhonin gasped.
“Aye . . .” came the somewhat distant reply. “I knew you lived, wizard, since we'd not been flattened,
but I was beginnin' to think you'd never wake! About time!”

“Have you—is Vereesa alive?”

 “'Tis hard to say. The light from this spell of yours lets me see her a little, but she's too distant for me to
check! Not heard anything out of her since I woke!”

Rhonin gritted his teeth. Shehadto be alive. “Falstad! How far above you are the rocks?”

A sardonic laugh escaped his companion. “Near enough to tickle my nose, human, else I'd have slid
over to check her sooner! Never thought I'd be alive at my own burial!”

The mage ignored the last, thinking about what the dwarf had said about the nearness of the avalanche.
Clearly the farther the spell extended from Rhonin, the less it covered. Both Vereesa and Falstad had
been protected from being crushed, but the ranger might possibly have been struck hard on the
head—perhaps even slain by the deadly blow.

Yet Rhonin had to hope otherwise.

“Human—if 'tis not too much to ask—can you doanythingfor us?”

 Couldhe rescue them? Did he have either the power or the strength remaining? He pocketed the black
stone, now wholly concerned with the more desperate matter. “Give me a few moments. . . .”

“And what else would I be doing, eh?”

 The pressure in the wizard's head continued to increase at a frightening pace. Rhonin doubted his shield
could last much longer, and yet he had to maintain it while attempting this second, perhaps even more
complex spell.

He had to not only transport all three of them from this precarious position, but send them to a safe
place. All this while his battered form cried out for recuperation.

How did the spell go? It pained him to think, but at last Rhonin summoned the words. Attempting this
would draw away his concentration from the shield, though. If he took too long . . .

What choice do I have?

“Falstad, I'm going to try now. . . .”

“That would please me to no end, human! I think the rocks're already pressing against my chest!”

Yes, Rhonin, too, had noticed the shift. He definitely had to hurry.

He muttered the words, drew the power. . . .

The rocks above him shifted ominously.

Utilizing his good hand, Rhonin drew a sign.
The shield spellfailed.Tons of stone dropped upon the trio—

—And suddenly he found himself lying on his back, staring into the cloud-covered heavens.

“Dagath's Hammer!” Falstad roared from his side. “Did you have to cut it so close?”

Despite the pain, Rhonin pushed himself up to a sitting position. The chill wind actually aided, snapping
him out of his disoriented state. He looked in the dwarf 's direction.

 Falstad, too, sat up. The gryphon-rider had a wild look in his eyes that for once had nothing to do with
battle. His visage had turned absolutely pale, something Rhonin would never have imagined of the
stalwart warrior.

“Never, never, never will I crawl into another tunnel! From now on, 'tis only the sky for me! Dagath's
Hammer!”

The wizard might have replied, but a groan from farther on caught his attention. Rising on unsteady feet,
he struggled his way toward Vereesa's prone form. At first Rhonin wondered if he had imagined the
groan—the ranger looked completely lifeless—but then Vereesa repeated it.

“She's—she's alive, Falstad!”

 “Aye, you can tell that from her moaning, I'll bet! Of course she's alive! Quick, though! How does she
fare?”

 “Hold on . . .” Rhonin cautiously turned the elf over, studying her face, her head, and her body. She had
been bruised in some places and her arm bore stains of blood, but otherwise she seemed in as good a
shape as either of her companions.

 While he cautiously held her head up to study a bruise at the top, Vereesa's eyes fluttered open.
“R-Rhon—”

“Yes, it's me. Take it easy. I think you got struck hard on the head.”

 “Remember . . . remember that—” The ranger closed her eyes for a moment—then suddenly sat up,
eyes flaring wide, mouth open in horror.“The ceiling! The ceiling! It is falling in on us!”

“No!” He took hold of her. “No, Vereesa! We're safe! We're safe. . . .”

“But the cavern ceiling . . .” The elf 's expression relaxed. “No, we are not in the cave any longer . . . but
wherearewe, Rhonin? How did we get here? How did we survive in the first place?”

“You remember the shield that saved us from the golem? After the monster destroyed itself, the shield
held up, even when the ceiling collapsed. Its sphere of protection shrank, but it still held up enough to
keep us from being crushed to death.”

“Falstad! Is he—”

 The dwarf came up on her other side. “'Tis all of us he's saved, my elven lady. Saved but dropped us off
in the middle of nowhere!”
 Rhonin blinked. Middle of nowhere? He looked around. The snowy ridge, the chill winds—growing
chillier by the moment—and the incredible cloud cover all about them . . . the wizard knew exactly where
they were, even despite the darkness surrounding them. “Not nowhere, Falstad. I think I sent us to the
very top of the mountain. I think that everything, including the orcs, lies far below us.”

“The top of the mountain?” Vereesa repeated.

“Aye, that would make sense.”

 “And judging by the fact that I can see both of you betterand better, I fear that it's nearing dawn.”
Rhonin grew grim again. “Which means, if Nekros Skullcrusher is an orc of his word, that they'll be
leaving the fortress at any moment, eggs and all.”

 Both Vereesa and the dwarf looked at him. “Now why would they do anything so daft?” asked Falstad.
“Why abandon a place so secure?”

 “Because of an impending invasion from the west, wizards and dwarves all riding swift, cunning
gryphons. Hundreds, perhaps thousands of dwarves and wizards. Maybe even some elves. Against so
much, especially magic, Nekros and his men would have no chance even of defending from within the
mountain. . . .” The wizard shook his head. The situation might have been different if the commander had
realized the true potential of the artifact he carried, but apparently either Nekros did not or his loyalties to
his master in Dun Algaz were stronger. The orc had chosen to go north, and north he would go.

Falstad still could not believe it. “An invasion? Where would even an orc get a mad idea like that?”

 “From us. From our being here. Especially me. Deathwing wanted me here just to serve as evidence of
some forthcoming attack! This Nekros is mad! He already apparently believed that an assault was
imminent, and when I showed up in his very midst, he felt certain of it.” Rhonin eyed his broken finger,
which had grown numb. He would have to deal with it when he could, but for now, so much more was at
stake than a single finger.

“But why would the black beast want the orcs to leave?” the ranger asked. “What would he gain?”

 “I think I know. . . .” Standing, Rhonin went to the edge of the mountain and peered down, bracing
himself so that the wind would not blow him off the edge. He could still see nothing below, but imagined
that he heard some sort of noise . . . perhaps of a military column with wagons moving out? “I think that
instead of rescuing the red Dragonqueen—as he tried to convince me—he wants to slay her! It was too
much of a risk while she was inside, but in the open he can swoop down and kill her with a single blow!”

“Are you sure?” the elf asked, joining him.

 “It has to be.” He looked up. Even the thick cloud cover up here could not obscure the fact that dawn
fast approached. “Nekros wanted to leave by dawn. . . .”

 “Is he daft?” muttered Falstad. “Would've made more sense if the blasted orc had tried to leave during
the cover of darkness!”

 Rhonin shook his head at Falstad. “Deathwing can see fairly well in the night, maybe even better than
any of us! Nekros indicated at one point in the questioning that he was prepared for anything, even
Deathwing! In fact, he even seemed eager for the dark one to appear!”
“But that would make the least sense of all!” the ranger returned. “How could a single orc defeat him?”

 “How could he keep control of the Dragonqueen— and where did he summon a creature like the
golem?” The questions disturbed him more than he let on. Clearly the object that the orc carried had
significant abilities, but was itthatpowerful?

Falstad suddenly waved for silence, then pointed northwest, well beyond the mountain.

A vast, dark shape broke momentarily through the higher clouds, then disappeared from sight again as it
descended.

“'Tis Deathwing . . .” the gryphon-rider whispered.

 Rhonin nodded. The time for conjecture was over. If Deathwing had come, it meant only one thing.
“Whatever is to happen, it's begun.”


The lengthy orc caravan moved out as the first light of dawn touched Grim Batol. The wagons were
flanked at beginning and end by armed warriors wielding freshly honed axes, swords, or pikes. Escorts
rode with the peon drivers, especially on the wagons bearing the precious dragon eggs. Each orc traveled
as if prepared to face the enemy at any given second, for word of the supposed invasion from the west
had reached even the lowest of the low.

 On one of the few horses available to the orcs, Nekros Skullcrusher watched the departure with
impatience. He had sent the dragon-riders and their mounts on ahead to Dun Algaz, in order that, even if
he failed in what he attempted, a few dragons would still be available to the Horde. A pity that he had
dared not use them to transport the eggs, but from one previous attempt the commander had learned the
folly of trying that.

 Erecting a wagon capable of bearing a dragon would have been impossible, and so it had fallen to
Nekros himself to take control of the two senior beasts. Both Alexstrasza and, remarkably, Tyran,
followed at the rear of the column, ever aware of the power theDemon Soulhad over them. For the ill
consort, this had to be a harsh situation; Nekros doubted that the male would survive the journey, yet the
orc knew there had been no other choice.

 They still made for an impressive sight, the two great leviathans. The female more than the male, since
she remained in better health. Nekros once caught her glaring at him, her hatred radiating in her eyes. The
orc cared not a whit. She would obey him in all things so long as he wielded the one artifact capable of
managinganydragon.

Thinking of dragons, he looked skyward. The overcast heavens presented any behemoth with ample
places to hide, but eventually something had to happen. Even if the Alliance forces were too far away,
Deathwing would surely come. Nekros counted on that.

 The humans would learn the folly of entrusting victory to the dark one. What ruled one dragon certainly
ruled another. With theDemon Soul,the orc commander would seize control of the most savage of all
beasts. He, Nekros, would be master of Deathwing . . . but only if the damned reptile ever appeared.

“Where're you, you blasted creature?” he muttered. “Where?”
 The last row of warriors exited the cavern mouth. Nekros watched them march by. Proud, wild, they
hearkened back to the day when the Horde knew no defeat, knew no enemy it could not slaughter. With
Deathwing at his command, he would restore that glory to his people. The Horde would rise anew, even
those who had surrendered. The orcs would sweep over the Alliance lands, cutting down the humans and
the others.

And perhaps there would be a new chieftain of the Horde. For the first time, Nekros dared imagine
himself in such a role, with even Zuluhed bowing before him. Yes, he who would bring victory to his
people would surely be acclaimed ruler.

War Chief Nekros Skullcrusher . . .

 He urged his mount forward, rejoining the column. It would look suspicious if he did not ride with them.
Besides, where he positioned himself did not truly matter; theDemon Soulgave him control from a
distance. No dragon could be released by it unless he willed it—and certainly the grizzled orc had no
intention of doing that.

Wherewas that blasted black beast?

 And, as if in answer, an ear-splitting howl arose. However, the howl did not come from the sky, as
Nekros had initially believed, but rather from the very earth surrounding the orcs. It caused consternation
among the warriors as they turned about, trying to find the enemy.

A breath later—the ground erupted withdwarves.

 They seemed everywhere, more dwarves than even Nekros could have imagined still remained in all of
Khaz Modan. They burst from the earth, swinging axes and waving swords, charging the column from
every side.

 Yet, although momentarily stunned, the orcs quickly recovered. Shouting out their own war cries, they
turned to meet the attackers. The guards stayed with the wagons, but they, too, readied themselves, and
even the peons, pathetic for most things, pulled out clubs. It took little training for an orc to be able to
crush something with a piece of wood.

 Nekros kicked at a dwarf who tried to pull him down. One of the commander's aides quickly stepped
in, and a pitched battle began between the two. Nekros steered the horse nearer to the wagons, needing
a moment himself to adjust to the situation. Instead of an invasion, he had been attacked by scavengers,
for these looked to be the ragged mob that he had always known existed in the tunnels around the
mountains. Judging by the numbers now, the trolls had apparently not done their work well.

But where was Deathwing? He had planned for the dragon. There had to be a dragon!

A thundering roar shook the combatants. A vast form darted half-seen through the thick clouds, then
broke free, diving toward the orcs.

“At last! At last you've come, you black—” Nekros Skullcrusher froze, utterly baffled. He clutched the
Demon Soul,but, at the moment, did not even think about using it as he had planned.

The dragon diving toward him had scales the color of fire, not darkness.
“We need to get down there,” muttered Rhonin. “I need to see what's happening!”

“Can't you just do as you did in the chamber?” asked Falstad.

“If I do, I won't have any strength to help us once we land . . . besides, I don't know where to put us.
Would you like to end up right in front of an orc swinging an ax?”

Vereesa glanced over the edge. “It does not appear too likely that we can climb down, either.”

 “Well, we can't stay up here forever!” The dwarf paced for a moment, then suddenly looked as if he had
just stepped in something terrible. “Hestra's wings! What a fool! Maybe he's still around!”

Rhonin eyed the dwarf as if he had lost his wits. “What're you talking about? Who?”

Instead of answering, Falstad reached into a pouch. “Those blasted trolls took it earlier, but Gimmel
handed it back . . . aah! Here 'tis!”

He pulled out what looked to be a tiny whistle. Both Rhonin and Vereesa watched as the dwarf put the
whistle to his lips and blew as hard as he could.

“I don't hear anything,” the wizard remarked.

 “I'd have wondered about you if you had. Just wait. He's well-trained. Best mount I ever had. Mind you,
we weren't taken by the trolls that far from this region. He would've stayed for a while. . . .” Falstad
looked a little less certain. “'Tis not that long since we were separated. . . .”

“You are trying to summon your gryphon?” the ranger asked, her skepticism clear.

“Better trying that than trying to sprout wings, eh?”

 They waited. Waited for what seemed like an eternity to Rhonin. He felt his own strength
returning—despite the chill conditions—but feared still to drop the trio into a location that might mean
their immediate death.

 Yet, it appeared he would have to try. The wizard straightened. “I'll do what I can. I recall an area not
far from the mountain. I think Deathwing showed it to me in my mind. I may be able to send us there.”

 Vereesa took him by the arm. “Are you certain? You do not look ready yet.” Her eyes filled with
concern. “I know what that must have cost you back in the chamber, Rhonin. That was no minor spell
you cast, then managed to maintain even for Falstad and myself. . . .”

He very much appreciated her words, but they had no other choice. “If I don't—”

 A large winged form suddenly materialized through the clouds. Both Rhonin and the elf reacted, certain
that Deathwing attacked.

 Only Falstad, who had been watching closely, did not act as if their doom had come. He laughed and
raised his hands toward the oncoming shape.

“Knew he'd hear! You see! Knew that he'd hear!”
 The gryphon squawked in what the mage could have sworn were tones of glee. The massive beast flew
swiftly toward them—or rather, his rider in particular. The animal fairly leapt atop Falstad, only the
beating wings keeping the full weight of the gryphon from nearly crushing the dwarf.

“Ha! Good lad! Good lad! Down now!”

 Tail wagging back and forth in a fashion more akin to a dog than a part-leonine beast, the gryphon
landed before Falstad.

“Well?” the short warrior asked his companions. “Is it not time to go?”

 They mounted as quickly as they could. Rhonin, still the weakest, sat between the dwarf and Vereesa.
He had doubts about the gryphon's ability to carry them all, but the animal did just fine. On an extended
journey, Falstad readily admitted, they would have had more trouble, but for a short trip, the gryphon
would have no difficulties.

Moments later, they broke through the clouds—and into a sight they had not at all expected.

 Rhonin had supposed that the sounds of battle would be the hill dwarves trying to take advantage of the
orcs' cumbersome wagon train, but what he had not thought to see was a dragon other than Deathwing
soaring above the battle.

“A red one!” the ranger called. “An older male, too! Not one raised in the mountain, either!”

He recognized that, too. The orcs had not held the queen long enough for such a behemoth to mature.
Besides, the Horde also had a habit of slaying the dragons before they grew too old and independent.
Only the young could be managed well enough by their orc handlers.

So where had this crimson leviathan come from, and what did he do here now?

“Where do you want us landing?” Falstad shouted, reminding him of a more immediate situation.

 Rhonin quickly scanned the area. The battle seemed mostly contained around the column. He caught
sight of Nekros Skullcrusher on horseback, the orc holding something in one hand that gleamed bright
despite the clouds. The wizard forgot Falstad's question as he tried to make out the object. Nekros
appeared to be pointing it toward the new dragon. . . .

“Well?” demanded the dwarf.

 Tearing his eyes from the orc, Rhonin concentrated hard. “There!” He pointed at a ridge a short distance
from the rear of the orc column. “That'll be best, I think!”

“Looks as good as any!”

 Under the gryphon-rider's expert handling, the animal quickly brought them to their destination. Rhonin
immediately slipped off, hurrying to the edge of the ridge in order to survey the situation.

What he saw made no sense whatsoever.

 The dragon, which had looked ready to attack Nekros, now hovered as best he could in the air, roaring
as if in some titanic struggle with an invisible foe. The wizard studied the orc commander again, noting
how the glittering shape in Nekros's hand seemed to become brighter with each passing second.

 An artifact of some sort, and so powerful that now even he could sense the emanations from it. Rhonin
looked from the relic to the crimson giant.

How did the orcs maintain control over the Dragonqueen?It had been a question he had asked himself
more than once in the past—and now Rhonin truly saw for himself.

The crimson dragon fought back, fought harder than the human could have imagined any creature doing.
The trio could hear his painful roars, know that he suffered as few beings ever had.

And then, with one last rasping cry, the behemoth abruptly grew limp. He seemed to hover for a
moment— then plummeted toward the earth some distance from the battle.

“Is he dead?” Vereesa asked.

 “I don't know.” If the artifact had not slain the dragon, certainly the high fall threatened to do that. He
turned from the sight, not wishing to see so determined a creature perish—and suddenly saw yet another
massive form dive from the clouds, this one a nightmare inblack.

“Deathwing!” Rhonin warned the others.

 The dark dragon soared toward the column, but not in the direction of either Nekros or the two
enslaved dragons. Instead, he flew directly toward an unexpected target—the egg-laden carts.

 The orc leader saw him at last. Turning, Nekros raised the artifact in Deathwing's direction, shouting out
something at the same time.

 Rhonin and the others expected to see even the black fall to this powerful talisman, but, curiously,
Deathwing acted as if untouched. He continued his foray toward the wagons—and, clearly, the eggs they
carried.

 The wizard could not believe his eyes. “He doesn't care about Alexstrasza, dead or alive! He wants her
eggs!”

 Deathwing seized two of the wagons with surprising gentleness, lifting them up even as the orcs atop
leapt away. The animals pulling the wagons shrieked, dangling helplessly as the dragon turned and
immediately flew away.

Deathwing wanted the eggs intact, but why? What use were they to the lone dragon?

 Then it occurred to Rhonin that he had just answered his own question. Deathwing wanted the eggs for
his own. Red the dragons would be that hatched, but, under the dark one's fostering, they would become
as sinister a force as he.

 Perhaps Nekros realized this, or perhaps he simply reacted to the theft in general, but the orc suddenly
turned and shouted toward the rear of the column. He continued to hold the artifact high, but now he
pointed with his other hand at the vanishing giant.

One of the two red leviathans, the male, spread his wings rather ponderously and took off in pursuit.
Rhonin had never seen a dragon who looked so deathly, so sick. He found himself amazed that the
creature had managed to fly as high as he had. Surely Nekros did not think this ailing dragon any match
for the younger, more virile Deathwing?

Meanwhile, the orcs and dwarves still fought, but the latter now battled with what seemed desperation,
disappointment. It almost seemed as if they had put their hopes in the first red male. If so, Rhonin could
understand their loss of hope now.

 “I do not understand it,” Vereesa said from beside him. “Why does Krasus not help? Surely the wizard
should be here! Surely he is the reason the hill dwarves are finally attacking!”

 “Krasus!” In all the excitement, Rhonin had forgotten about his patron. In truth, he had some questions
for the faceless wizard. “What does he have to do with this?”

She told him. Rhonin listened, first in disbelief, then in growing fury. Yes, as he had begun to suspect, he
had been used by the councilor. Not only him, though, but Vereesa, Falstad, and apparently the
desperate dwarves below.

“After dealing with the dragon, he led us inside the mountain,” she concluded. “Shortly thereafter, he
would not speak to me again.” The elf removed the medallion, showing it to him.

It looked remarkably like the one that Deathwing had given to Rhonin earlier, even down to the patterns.
The bitter mage recalled noticing it when the elf and Falstad had tried rescuing him from the orcs. Had
Krasus learned how to make it from the dragons?

At some point, the stone had become misaligned. Rhonin pushed it back into place with one finger, then
glared at the gem, imagining that his patron could hear him. “Well, Krasus? Are you there? Anything else
you'd like us to do for you? Should we die for you, maybe?”

 Useless. Whatever power it had contained had evidently dissipated. Certainly Krasus would not bother
to answer even if that had still been possible. Rhonin raised the relic high, ready to throw it off the ridge.

A faint voice in his head gasped,Rhonin?

The enraged wizard paused, startled to actually hear a reply.

Rhonin . . . praise . . . praise be . . . there may . . . there may still be . . . hope.

 His companions watched him, not at all certain what he did. Rhonin said nothing, trying to think. Krasus
sounded ill, almost dying.

“Krasus! Are you—”

Listen! I must conserve . . . energy! I see . . . I see you . . . you may be able to salvage something—

Despite misgivings, Rhonin asked, “What do you want?”

First . . . first I must bring you to me.

The medallion suddenly flared, spreading a vermilion light over the astonished spellcaster.

Vereesa reached for him. “Rhonin!”
Her hand went through his arm. He watched in horror as both she and Falstad—and the entire ridge—
vanished.

 Almost immediately, a different, rocky landscape materialized around him, a barren place that had seen
too many battles and now, in the distance, witnessed another. Krasus had transported him west of the
mountains, not far from where the orc column fought with the dwarves. He had not realized that the
wizard had been so near after all.

Thinking of his traitorous patron, Rhonin turned about. “Krasus! Damn you, show yourself—”

 He found himself staring into the eye of a fallen giant, the same red, draconic giant the human had seen
plummet from the skies but minutes earlier. The dragon lay on his side, one wing thrust up, his head flat
along the ground

 “You have my . . . my deepest apologies, Rhonin,” the gargantuan creature rumbled with some effort.
“For . . . foreverythingpainful I have caused you and the others . . .”




TWENTY



So simple. So very simple.

 As Deathwing turned to retrieve the next eggs, he wondered if he had overestimated the difficulties of his
plan in the first place. He had always assumed that to have entered the mountain either as himself or in
disguise would have been more risky, especially if Alexstrasza had noticed his presence. True, there
would have been little chance of him being injured, but the eggs he had coveted might have been
destroyed. He had feared that happening, especially if one of those eggs proved to be a viable female.
Having long decided that Alexstrasza would never be his to control, Deathwing needed every egg he
could get his talons on, so as to better his chances. That, in fact, had made him hesitate more than
anything else. Now, though, it seemed that he had wasted time waiting, that nothing could have stood in
his way then, just as nothing did now.

 He corrected himself. Nothing but a sickly, doddering beast well past his prime who even now flew
toward his doom.

“Tyran . . .” Deathwing would not dignify the other dragon by calling him by his full name. “You are not
dead yet?”

“Give back the eggs!” the crimson behemoth rasped.

“So that they may be raised as dogs for those orcs? I will at least make them true masters of the world!
Once more dragon flights will rule the skies and earth!”
His ailing adversary snorted. “And where is your flight, Deathwing? Aah, my pain makes me forget!
They alldiedfor your glory!”

The black leviathan hissed, spreading his wings wide. “Come to me, Tyran! I will be happy to send you
on your way to oblivion!”

“Whether by the orc's command or not, I would still hunt you down until my last breath!” Tyran snarled.
He snapped at the black's throat, barely missing.

“I shall send you back to your masters in bloody little pieces, old fool!”

The two dragons roared at one another, Tyran's cry a pale comparison to Deathwing's own.

They closed for combat.


Rhonin stared.“Krasus?”

The crimson dragon raised his head enough to nod once. “That is the name . . . I wear when . . . when
human. . . .”

 “Krasus . . .” Astonishment turned to bitterness. “You betrayed me and my friends! You arranged all
this! Made me your puppet!”

“For which I will always have . . . regrets. . . .”

“You're no better than Deathwing!”

 This made the leviathan cringe, but once more he nodded. “I deserve that. Perhaps that is the path . . .
the path he took long ago. S-so easy to not see what . . . what one does to others . . .”

 The distant sounds of battle reverberated even here, reminding Rhonin of other, more important matters
than his pride. “Vereesa and Falstad are still back there— and those dwarves! They could all die
because of you! Why did you summon me here, Krasus?”

 “B-because there is still hope of seizing v-victory out of the chaos . . . the chaos I have helped to create.
. . .” The dragon tried to rise, but managed only a sitting position. “You and I, Rhonin . . . there is a
chance. . . .”

 The wizard frowned, but said nothing. His only concern now lay in seeing to it that Vereesa, Falstad, and
the hill dwarves survived this debacle.

“You . . . you do not reject me out of hand . . . good. I thank you for th-that.”

“Just tell me what you intend.”

“The orc commander w-wields an artifact . . . theDemon Soul.It has p-power over all dragons . . . save
Deathwing.”

Rhonin recalled how Nekros had tried to use it on the black leviathan with no visible effect. “Why not
Deathwing?”
“Because he created it,” responded a quiet, feminine voice.

The mage whirled about. He heard a gasp from the dragon.

A beautiful yet ethereal woman wearing a flowing emerald gown stood behind the wizard, a slight smile
on her pale lips. Rhonin belatedly realized that her eyes were closed, yet she seemed to have no trouble
knowing how best to face either him or the dragon.

“Ysera . . .” the crimson giant whispered reverently.

 She did not acknowledge him immediately, though, instead continuing to answer Rhonin's question.
“Deathwing it was who created theDemon Soul,and for a good cause at the time, so we believed.” She
strode toward the wizard. “Believed so much that we did as he asked, imparted to it some measure of
our power.”

 “But he didn't impart his own, didn't impart his own!” snapped a male voice, strident and not completely
sane. “Tell him, Ysera! Tell him how, after the demons were defeated, he turned on us! Used our own
power on us!”

 Atop a massive rock perched a skeletal, notquitehuman figure with jagged, blue hair and silver skin.
Clad in a high-collared robe of the same two colors as his form, he looked like some mad jester. His
eyes gleamed. Daggerlike fingers scratched at the rock upon which the figure squatted, gouging chasms
into it.

“He will hear what he needs to hear, Malygos. No more, no less.” She smiled slightly again. The longer
Rhonin looked at her, the more she reminded him of Vereesa—but of Vereesa as he had once dreamt of
her. “Yes, Deathwing neglected to tell us that part, and certainly pretended that he had sacrificed as we
had. Only when he decided that he represented the future of our kind did we discover the horrible truth.”

 It finally occurred to Rhonin that Ysera and Malygos spoke of the black dragon as one of them. He
turned his head back to the red leviathan, silently asking the creature he had known as Krasus if his
suspicions were true.

 “Yes . . .” the injured dragon replied. “They are what you believe them to be. They are two of the five
great dragons, known in legend as the Aspects of the world.” The red giant seemed to draw strength
from their arrival. “Ysera . . . She of the Dreaming. Malygos . . . the Hand of Magic . . .”

“We are wasssting time here,” muttered yet a third voice, another male. “Precioussss time . . .”

“And Nozdormu . . . Master of Time, too!” marveled the red dragon. “You have all come!”

 A shrouded figure seemingly made of sand stood near Ysera. Under the hood appeared a face so
desiccated it barely had enough dry flesh to cover the bone. Gemstone eyes glared at both the dragon
and the wizard in growing impatience. “Yesss, we have come! And if thisss party takesss much longer,
perhapsss I shall go, too! I've much to gather, much to catalog—”

“Much to babble about, much to babble about!” mocked Malygos from high up.

Nozdormu raised a withered yet strong hand toward the jester, who flashed his daggerlike nails at the
hooded figure. The two looked ready to come to blows, both physical and otherwise, but the ghostly
woman came between them.

“And this is why Deathwing has nearly triumphed,” she murmured.

The two reluctantly backed down. Ysera turned to face everyone, her eyes still closed.

“Deathwing almost had us once, but we joined ranks again and made it so that at least he himself could
never wield theDemon Soulagain. We forced it from his hand and into the bowels of the earth—”

 “But someone found it for him,” interjected the red dragon, pulling himself together as best he could,
now that hope had evidently returned. “I believe that he may even have led the orcs to it, knowing what
they would do once they had it. If he cannot use it himself, he can certainly manipulate others into
wielding it for his purposes—even if they do not realize it. I—I believe that it suited his plans for
Alexstrasza to be captured, for she not only remained the lone power he feared, but it helped the Horde
to wreak further havoc in the world without the dark one raising a paw in effort. Now . . . now that it is
clear that the Horde has failed him, it better serves his purpose for the orcs to move her.”

“Not her,” corrected Ysera. “Her eggs.”

“Hereggs?” the former Krasus blurted. “Not my queen herself ?”

 “Yes, the eggs. You know that the last of his mates perished in the first days of the war,” she replied.
“Slain by his own recklessness . . . so now he would raise our sister's get as his own.”

“To create a new Age of Dragonssss . . .” spat Nozdormu. “The Age of Deathwing'sss Dragonsss!”

Suddenly Rhonin noticed that the four now stared at him, even Ysera with her closed eyes.

 “We cannot touch theDemon Soul,human, and out of distrust, we have never tried to make another
creature wield it for us. I believe I know what poor Korialstrasz here desired so much of you that he had
to drag you from your friends, but while it seems the best way, he will not now be the one who keeps
Deathwing occupied.”

“It is my duty!” roared the red. “It is my penance!”

“It would be a waste. You are too susceptible to the disk. Besides, you are needed for other reasons.
Tyran, who fights now for both his queen and his captor, will not survive. Alexstrasza will have need of
you, dear Korial.”

 “Besides, Deathwing is ourbrother,”mocked Malygos. The talons dug deeper into the rock. “It's only
right thatweshould play with him, we should play with him!”

 “What do you want me to do?” Rhonin asked, eager yet also anxious. Whathewanted most was to
return to Vereesa.

 Ysera faced him—and her eyes opened. For a brief moment, vertigo seized control of the human. The
dreamlike eyes that stared back reminded him of everyone he had ever known, hated, or loved. “You,
mortal, must take theDemon Soulfrom the orc. Without it, he cannot possibly do to us what he did to our
sister and, by taking it, you might be able to free her from his control.”

“But that will not deal with Deathwing,” Korialstrasz insisted. “And because of the cursed disk, he is
stronger than all of you together—”

“A point of fact we know,” hissed Nozdormu. “And ssso did you when you came to usss! Well, you
have usss now! Be sssatissfied with that!” He looked at his two companions. “Enough babble! Let usss
be done with thisss!”

 Ysera, her eyes closed again, turned to the dragon. “There is one thing you must do, Korialstrasz, and it
does entail risk. This human cannot simply be magicked into the orcs' midst. TheDemon Soulmakes that
risky, and there is also always the chance that he will find himself under the ax when he appears. You
must instead bear him there—and pray that for the few seconds you are so near, the orc does not bind
you to the foul disk this time.” She walked up to the stricken dragon, touching the tip of his muzzle. “You
are not one of us even if you are her consort, Korialstrasz, yet you fought theDemon Soul's hungry grasp
and escaped—”

 “I worked hard to build myself up for that, Ysera. I thought I had cast my protective spells better, but in
the end I failed.”

 “We can do this for you.” Suddenly, both Malygos and Nozdormu stood beside her. All three had their
left hands touching Korialstrasz's muzzle. “So much power theDemon Soultook from us, a little more will
not matter. . . .”

 Auras formed around the raised hands of the trio, the colors reminiscent of each of those contributing.
The three auras combined, rapidly spreading from the Aspects to the dragon's muzzle and beyond. In
seconds, Korialstrasz's entire immense form lay bathed in magic.

 Ysera and the others finally backed away. The crimson behemoth blinked, then rose to his feet. “I
feel—renewed!”

“You will need all of it,” she remarked. To her two companions, she said, “We must see to our errant
brother.”

“Abouttime,I would sssay!” snapped Nozdormu.

 Without another word to either Rhonin or the red dragon, they turned away, facing the distant form of
Deathwing. As one, the trio spread their arms wide—and those arms became wings that expanded and
expanded. At the same time, their bodies widened, grew greater. Away went the garments, replaced by
scale. Their faces lengthened, hardened, all vestiges of humanity shaping into draconic majesty.

The three gargantuan dragons rose high in the air, a sight so impressive that the wizard could only watch.

 “I pray that they will be enough,” muttered Korialstrasz. “But I fear it will not be so.” He looked down at
the tiny figure next to him. “What say you, Rhonin? Will you do as they bid?”

For Vereesa alone, he would have agreed. “All right.”


The fight had early gone out of Tyran, and now so had the life. Deathwing roared his triumph as he
clutched the limp form of the other dragon high. Blood still seeped from a score of deep wounds—most
of them in the red's chest—and Tyran's paws were covered with burns, the cost of touching the acidic
venom that dripped from the fiery veins coursing along the black's body. No one who touched
Deathwing did not suffer in the end.
 The dark one roared again, then let the lifeless form drop. In truth, he had done the ill red a favor; would
not the other dragon have suffered worse if he had been forced to continue to live with his sickness? At
least Deathwing had granted him a warrior's demise, however easy the battle had truly been.

Yet a third time he roared, wanting all to hear of his supremacy—

—and found instead answering roars coming from the west.

“What fool now dares?” he hissed.

Not one fool, Deathwing immediately saw, butthree.Notanythree, either.

“Ysssera . . .” he greeted coldly. “And Nozdormu, and my dear friend Malygosss, too . . .”

“It is time to end your madness, brother,” the sleek green dragon calmly said.

“I am not your brother in anything, Ysera. Open your eyes to that fact, and also that nothing will prevent
me from creating this new age of our kind!”

“You plan only an age in which you rule, nothing more.”

 The black dipped his head. “Much the same thing, as I see it. Best you go back to sleep. And you,
Nozdormu? Pulled your head out of the sand at last? Do you not recall who is most powerful here? Even
the three of you will not be enough!”

“Your time isss over!” spat the glittering brown behemoth. Gemstone eyes flared. “Come! Take your
place in my collection of thingsss passst. . . .”

Deathwing snorted. “And you, Malygos? Have you nothing to say to your old comrade?”

 In response, the chill-looking, silver-blue beast opened wide his maw. A torrent of ice shot forth,
washing over Deathwing with incredible accuracy. However, as soon as the ice touched the fearsome
dragon, ittransformed,
turning into a thousand thousand tiny crablike vermin that sought to tear at the scales and flesh of their
host.

Deathwing hissed, and from the crimson veins acid poured forth. Malygos's creatures died by the
hundreds, until only a few remained.

 Expertly using two talons, the black dragon picked one of these off, then swallowed it whole. He smiled
at his counterparts, revealing sharp, tearing teeth. “So that is how it is to be, then. . . .”

With an earth-shattering roar, he leapt at them.


“They will not defeat him!” Korialstrasz muttered as Rhonin and he neared the besieged orc column.
“They cannot!”

“Then why bother?”
 “Because they know that it is time to make a stand, regardless of the outcome! Rather would they pass
from this world than watch it writhe and die in Deathwing's terrible grip!”

“Is there no way we can help them?”

The dragon's silence answered that.

Rhonin eyed the orcs ahead, thinking of his own mortality. Even if he managed to seize this artifact from
Nekros, how long would he maintain hold of it? For that matter, what good would it do him? Could he
wield it?

“Kras—Korialstrasz, the disk contains the power of the great dragons?”

“All save Deathwing, which is why he cannot be bound by its power!”

“But he can't wield it himself because of some spell the others cast?”

“So it seems . . .” The dragon banked.

“Do you know what the disk can do?”

“Many things, but none of them able to directly or indirectly affect the dark one.”

Rhonin frowned. “How is that possible?”

“How long have you trained in magic, my friend?”

 The wizard grimaced. Of all the arts, magic truly had to be one of the most contradictory, guided by
laws all its own, laws quite changeable at the worst of times. “Point taken.”

“The great ones have made up their minds, Rhonin! By being granted the chance to take theDemon
Soul,you will not only free my queen—who will, I do not doubt, rise to their aid—but also have the
wherewithal for finally crushing the remnants of the Horde! TheDemon Soulcan do that, if you learn to
wield it properly, you know!”

He had not even considered that, but of course a relic like this would serve well against the orcs. “But it
would take too long to learn how to use it!”

 “The orcs did not have willing teachers! I am not one of the Five, Rhonin, but I can show you enough, I
think!”

“Providing we both survive . . .” the mage whispered to himself.

 “Yes, there is that.” Apparently dragons had exceptional hearing. “Aah, there is the orc in question! Be
ready!”

 Rhonin prepared himself. Korialstrasz dared not get too near Nekros for fear of falling victim to the
Demon Soul,which meant that, despite the talisman, the wizard had to use magic to reach the orc
commander. He had cast many spells in the heat of battle before, but nothing had quite prepared Rhonin
for this effort. The dragon might have tried, but around the vicinity of the relic, his magic would have fared
worse than the wizard's.
“Get ready . . .”

Korialstrasz dropped lower.

“Now!”

The words came out of Rhonin in a gasp—and suddenly he floated in the air, directly over one of the
wagons.

An orc driver looked up, gaped when he saw the wizard.

Rhonin dropped on top of him.

The collision softened his fall, but did nothing good for the orc. Rhonin scrambled to push the
unconscious driver to the side, then searched the area for Nekros.

 The one-legged commander remained on horseback, eyes fixed on the turning form of Korialstrasz. He
raised the gleamingDemon Soulhigh—

“Nekros!” Rhonin shouted.

The orc looked his way, which had been just as the wizard wanted it. Now the dragon remained out of
Nekros's reach.

 “Human! Wizard! You're dead!” His heavy brow furrowed and a dark look crossed his hideous
features. “Well . . . you will be soon!”

He pointed the artifact toward Rhonin.

 The wizard quickly cast a shield, hoping that whatever Nekros threw at him would not be as terrible as
the golem's flames. The great dragons had not seen fit to grant him some of the extra strength they had
given to Korialstrasz, but then, the red behemoth had been near to total collapse, and they had needed
the rest of their power for Deathwing. Rhonin's own hopes all lay in his own flagging capabilities.

 A gigantic hand—a hand of flame—reached for him, trying to encircle the mage. However, Rhonin's
spell held true, and the hand, rebounding off the faintly visible shield, instead engulfed an orc warrior
about to behead his dwarven adversary. The orc let out one short scream before collapsing into a burning
heap.

“Your tricks'll not hold you long from death!” growled Nekros.

 The ground beneath the wagon began to shake, then crumble. Rhonin threw himself from the sinkhole
that formed just as the wagon and the animals pulling it were dragged under. The shield spell dissipated,
leaving the desperate mage undefended as he clung to what remained of the path.

Nekros urged his mount nearer. “Whatever happens this day, human, I'll at least be rid of you!”

Rhonin uttered a short, simple spell. A single clump of dirt flew up into the orc's face, lodging there
despite his attempts to peel it away. Swearing, Nekros struggled to see.
The wizard pulled himself up, then leapt at the orc.

 He came up a bit short, catching the arm that held theDemon Soulbut unable to pull himself higher.
Although still blinded, Nekros seized Rhonin by the collar, trying to get one heavy hand on the mage's
throat.

“I'll kill you, human scum!”

 Fingers closed around Rhonin's neck. Caught between attempting to pry the talisman free and saving his
own life, Rhonin managed to accomplish neither. Nekros began to crush the life out of him, the incredible
strength of the orc too much for the mage. Rhonin started a spell—

A winged shape suddenly darted past Nekros. Something landed on the back of the orc, throwing both
him and the wizard off the horse and onto the rough ground.

They landed hard. The murderous grip on Rhonin's throat vanished as the two bounced in opposite
directions.

Someone seized the dazed mage by the shoulders. “Up, Rhonin, before he recovers!”

“V-Vereesa?” He stared into her striking face, both astonished and pleased to see her.

 “We saw the dragon drop you from the sky, then watched as you magicked yourself to safety! Falstad
and I came as soon as we could, thinking you might need help!”

“Falstad?” Rhonin looked up, saw the gryphon-rider and his mount circling back. Falstad had no
weapon, yet he howled as if daring every orc in the column to come face him.

“Hurry!” the ranger cried. “We must get out of here!”

“No!” Reluctantly he pulled back. “Not until—look out!”

 He pushed her aside just before a massive war-ax would have cut her in two. A beefy orc with ritual
scars cut down each cheek raised the ax again, once more focusing on Vereesa, who had fallen to the
side.

Rhonin gestured . . . and the ax handle suddenly stretched, weaving about as if some writhing serpent.
The orc struggled to control it, only to find his weapon now twisting around him. Suddenly fearful, the
warrior released his grip and, after managing to pull free of the living ax, ran off.

The wizard reached out a hand to his companion—

—and fell to the ground as a fist caught him in the back.

“Where is it?” roared Nekros Skullcrusher. “Where's theDemon Soul?”

Momentarily stunned, Rhonin did not quite understand the orc. Surely Nekros had the talisman. . . .

 A piercing weight pressed down on him from the back. He heard Nekros say, “Stay where you're at,
elf! All I need to do is lean a little harder and I'll crush your friend like a piece of fruit!” Rhonin felt cold
metal against his cheek. “No tricks, mage! Give me the disk back and I may let you live!”
Nekros gave him just enough movement so that Rhonin could see the orc out of the corner of his eye.
The commander had his wooden leg squarely on the wizard's spine, and Rhonin had no doubt that just a
bit more pressure would snap the spine completely. “I d-don't have it!” The near-full weight of Nekros's
massive body made it nearly impossible to breathe, much less speak. “I don't even know w-where it is!”

“I've no patience for your lies, human!” Nekros pushed a little harder. A hint of desperation colored his
otherwise arrogant tone. “I need it now!”

 “Nekrosss . . .” interrupted a thundering, hate-filled voice. “You had them ssslay mychildren!Mychildren
!”

Rhonin felt the orc suddenly shift, as if turning. Nekros let out a gasp, then, “No—!”

A shadow overwhelmed both Rhonin and his adversary. A hot, almost searing wind washed over the
mage. He heard Nekros Skullcrusher scream—

—and suddenly the orc's weight vanished from his back.

 Rhonin immediately rolled onto his back, certain that whatever had taken his enemy would now take
him. Vereesa came to his aid, dragging him to her just as the mage registered what had created the vast
shadow and why the voice accompanying it had been familiar.

Scales hanging loose in some areas, her wings bent awkwardly, the Dragonqueen Alexstrasza still
presented a most astounding sight. She towered over all else, her head high in the sky as she roared in
defiance. Of Nekros, Rhonin saw no sign; the great dragon had either swallowed the orc whole or tossed
his body far away.

 Alexstrasza roared again, then dipped her head down toward the wizard and elf. Vereesa looked ready
to defend them both, but Rhonin signaled her to lower her blade.

 “Human, elf, you have my gratitude for finally enabling me to avenge my children! Now, though, there
are others who need my aid, however minuscule it might prove!”

 She cast her eyes skyward, where four titans fought. Rhonin followed her gaze, watched for a moment
as Ysera, Nozdormu, and Malygos battled Deathwing seemingly without result. Again and again the trio
dove in, and each time the black monster repelled them easily.

“Three against one and they still can't do anything?”

 Alexstrasza, already testing her wings for departure, paused to reply, “Because of theDemon Soul,we
are more than halved! Only Deathwing remains whole! Would that it could be wielded against him or that
we could regain the power lost to it, but neither of those options exists! We can only fight and hope for
the best!” A roar from above shook the earth. “I must go now! Forgive me for leaving you thus! Thank
you again!”

 With that, the Dragonqueen rose into the air, her tail casually sweeping nearby orcs away yet ever
avoiding the valiant dwarven attackers.

 “There must be something we can do!” Rhonin looked around for theDemon Soul.It had to be
somewhere.
“Never mind it!” Vereesa called. She deflected the ax of an orc, then ran the warrior through. “We still
need to save ourselves!”

 Rhonin, however, continued to search despite the pitched battle around him. Suddenly, his gaze alighted
on a glittering object half-covered by the arm of a dead dwarf. The wizard raced over to it, hoping
against hope.

 Sure enough, it proved to be the draconic artifact. Rhonin studied it in open admiration. So simple and
elegant, yet containing forces beyond the ability of any wizard, save perhaps the infamous Medivh. So
much power. With it, Nekros could have become War Chief of the Horde. With it, Rhonin could
become master of Dalaran, emperor of all the Lordaeron kingdoms. . . .

 What was he thinking?Rhonin shook his head, scattering such thoughts. TheDemon Soulhad a seductive
touch to it, one of which he had to beware.

Falstad, atop the gryphon, dropped down to join them. Somewhere along the way, he had managed to
gain an orc battle-ax, which he had already clearly used well.

“Wizard! What ails you? Rom and his band may have the orcs on the run at last, but here 'tis not the
place to stand and gawk at baubles!”

 Rhonin ignored him, just as he had Vereesa. Somehow the key to defeating Deathwing had to be in
using theDemon Soul!Whatotherforce could possibly do that? Even the four great dragons seemed not
enough.

 He held up the artifact, sensing its tremendous power and knowing that none of that power would help,
at least not in its present form.

 Which meant that perhaps nothing,nothing,would be able to stop Deathwing from achieving his goals. . .
.




TWENTY-ONE



 They threw their full might at him—or at least what remained of it. They threw both physical and magical
assaults at Deathwing, and he shrugged all off. No matter how hard they fought against him, the fact
remained that, diminished by their long-ago contributions to theDemon Soul,the other great Aspects
might as well have been infants in comparison to the black leviathan.

Nozdormu cast the sand of ages at him, threatening, at least for a moment, to steal Deathwing's very
youth. Deathwing felt the weakness spread through him, felt his bones grow stiff and his thoughts slower.
Yet, before the change could become permanent, the raw power within the chaotic dragon surged high,
burning away the sand, overwhelming the cunning spell.
From Malygos came a more frontal assault, the mad creature's fury almost enabling him to match
Deathwing's power, if but for a moment. Icicles of lightning assailed Malygos's hated foe from all
directions, intense heat and numbing cold simultaneously beating at Deathwing. Yet the enchanted iron
plates embedded in the black's hide deflected nearly all of the raging storm away, readily enabling
Deathwing to suffer what little made it through.

 Of all of them, though, his most cunning and dangerous foe proved to be Ysera. Initially, she stayed
back, seeming content to let her comrades waste their efforts on him. Then Deathwing noticed a
complacency in himself, a satisfaction that grew to distraction. Almost too late he realized that he had
begun to daydream. Shaking his head, he quickly dislodged the cobwebs that she had cast within his
mind—just as all three of his adversaries tried to seize him in their talons.

With several beats of his expansive wings, he pulled out of their grasp, then counterattacked. Between
his forepaws formed a vast sphere of pure energy, primal power, that he threw into their very midst.

The sphere exploded as it reached the trio, sending Ysera and the others spiraling backward.

 Deathwing roared his defiance. “Fools! Throw what you can at me! The outcome will be no different! I
am power incarnate! You are nothing but shadows of the past!”

“Never underestimate what you may learn from the past, dark one. . . .”

 A crimson shadow Deathwing had thought never to see aloft again filled his vision, surprising even him
for once. “Alexstrasza . . . come to avenge your consort?”

“Come to avenge my consort and my children, Deathwing, for I know all too well that this is all because
of you!”

“I?” The black behemoth gave her a toothy grin. “But even I cannot touch theDemon Soul;you and
yours saw to that!”

 “But something led the orcs to a place of which only dragons knew . . . and something hinted to them of
the power of the disk!”

“Does it matter, anyway? Your day is past, Alexstrasza, while mine is about to come!”

 The red dragon spread her wings wide and flashed her claws. Despite the deprivations of her captivity,
she did not look at all weak at the moment. “It is your day that is over, dark one!”

“I have faced the ravages of time, the curse of nightmares, and the mists of sorcery, thanks to the others!
What weapons do you bring?”

 Alexstrasza met his sinister gaze with her own determined, unblinking orbs. “Life . . . hope . . . and what
they bring with them . . .”

Deathwing took in her words—and laughed loud. “Then you are as good as dead already!”

The two giants charged one another.
“She cannot hope to beat him,” Rhonin muttered. “None of them can, because they're all lacking what
this damned artifact took from them!”

“If there is nothing we can do, then we should leave, Rhonin.”

“I can't, Vereesa! I've got to do something for her—for all of us, actually! If they can't stop Deathwing,
who will?”

Falstad eyed theDemon Soul.“Can you do nothing with that thing?”

“No. It won't work against Deathwing in any way.”

 The dwarf rubbed his hairy chin. “Pity 'tis not possible to give back the magic that thing stole! At least
then they could fight with him on even terms. . . .”

 The wizard shook his head. “That can't be—” He paused, trying to think. With the broken finger, his
throbbing head, and the bruises all over his body, it took effort just to keep on his feet. Rhonin
concentrated, focusing on what the gryphon-rider had just said. “But, then again, maybe itcan!”

 His companions looked at him in bewilderment. Rhonin quickly glanced around to assure himself that
they were safe from orcs for the moment, then located the hardest rock he could find.

“What are you doing?” Vereesa asked, sounding as if she wondered whether he had lost his mind.

 “Returning their power to them!” He put theDemon Soulon top of another stone, then raised the first
high.

“What in blazes do you think—” was as far as Falstad managed.

Rhonin brought the rock down as hard as he could on the disk.

The rock in his hand cracked in two.

TheDemon Soulglistened, not even blemished by the assault.

 “Damn! I should've known!” He looked up at the dwarf. “Can you swing that thing with great
accuracy?”

 Falstad looked insulted. “It may be inferior orc work, but 'tis still a usable weapon and, as such, I can
swing it as good as any!”

“Use it on the disk! Now!”

The ranger put a concerned hand on the wizard's shoulder. “Rhonin, do you really think this will work?”

 “I know the spellwork that will return it to them, a variation used by those of my order when trying to
draw from other relics, but it demands that the artifact in question be shattered, so that the forces binding
the magic within won't exist any longer! I can give back to the dragons what they lost—but only if I can
get theDemon Soulopen!”

“Is that why, then?” Falstad hefted the war-ax. “Stand back, wizard! Would you like it in two neat
halves or chopped into little fragments?”

“Just destroy it in whatever way you can!”

 “Simple enough . . .” Raising the ax high, the dwarf took a deep breath—then swung so hard that Rhonin
could see the intense strain in his companion's arm muscles.

The ax struck true—

Fragments of metal went flying.

“By the Aerie! The head! 'Tis completely ruined!”

A great gap in the blade gave proof of theDemon Soul's hard surface. Falstad threw down the ax in
disgust, cursing shoddy orc workmanship.

Rhonin, however, knew that the ax had not been at fault. “This is worse than I would've imagined!”

“Magic must protect it,” Vereesa murmured. “Cannot magic also destroy it?”

 “It would have to be something powerful. My magic alone wouldn't do it, but if I had another
talisman—” He recalled the medallion Krasus—or, rather, Korialstrasz— had given Vereesa, but that
had been left behind after the wizard and the red dragon had headed back to the battle. Besides, Rhonin
doubted that it would serve well enough. Better if he had something from Deathwing himself, but that
medallion had been lost in the mountain—

But he still had the stone! The stone created from one of the black dragon's own scales!

“It has to work!” he cried, reaching into his pouch.

“What've you got?” Falstad asked.

 “This!” He pulled out the tiny stone, an object which in no manner impressed the other two. “Deathwing
created this from his very being, just as he created theDemon Soulthrough his magic! It may be able to
do what nothing else could!”

 As they watched, he brought the stone to the disk. Rhonin debated how best to use it, then decided to
follow the teachings of his craft—try the simple way first.

The black gem seemed to gleam in his grip. The wizard turned it on the sharpest edge he could find.
Rhonin knew very well that his plan might not work, but he had nothing else to try.

With great caution, he ran the stone along the center of the foul talisman.

Deathwing's scale cut into theDemon Soul's hardened gold exterior like a knife through butter.

“Look out!” Vereesa pulled him back just in time, as a plume of sheer light burst from the cut.

 Rhonin sensed the intense magical energy escaping from the damaged talisman and knew he had to act
fast, lest it be lost forever to those to whom it truly belonged.
He muttered the spell, adjusting it as he thought needed. The weary mage concentrated hard, not
wanting to risk failure at so critical a juncture. Ithadto work.

 A fantastic, glittering rainbow rose higher and higher, flying up into the heavens. Rhonin repeated his
spell, emphasizing as best he could what he wanted as results. . . .

 The nearly blinding plume, now hundreds of feet in height, twisted around—heading in the direction of
the battling dragons.

“Did you do it?” the ranger breathlessly asked.

Rhonin stared at the distant forms of Alexstrasza, Deathwing, and the others. “I think so—Ihopeso. . . .”


“Have you not been through enough? Will you continue to fight what you cannot defeat?” Deathwing
eyed his foes with utter contempt. What little respect had remained for them had long ago died away.
The fools continued to bang their heads against the proverbial wall, even though they knew that, together,
their power still lacked.

“You have caused too much misery, too much horror, Deathwing,” Alexstrasza retorted. “Not just to us,
but to the mortal creatures of this world!”

“What are they to me—or, for that matter, even you? I will never understand that!”

She shook her head in what he realized could be pity— forhim? “No . . . you never will. . . .”

“I have toyed enough with you—all of you! I should have destroyed you four years ago!”

“But you could not! Creating theDemon Soulweakened even you for quite some time. . . .”

 He snorted. “But now I have recovered my full strength! My plans for this world advance rapidly . . .
and after I have slain all of you, I shall takeyoureggs, Alexstrasza, and create my perfect world!”

 In response, the crimson dragon attacked again. Deathwing laughed, knowing that her spells would
affect him no better than they had before. Between his own power and the enchanted plates grafted to his
skin,
nothingcould hurt him—

 “Aaargh!!” The fury of her magical attack tore at him with a force he could not have imagined. His
adamantium plates did little to lessen the horrific impact. Deathwing immediately countered with a
powerful shield, but the damage had been done. His entire body ached from pain such as he had not
known in many centuries.

“What—have you—done tome?”

At first Alexstrasza looked surprised herself, but then a knowing—and triumphant—smile crossed her
draconic features. “The bare beginnings of what I have these past years dreamed of doing, foul one!”

She looked larger, stronger. In fact, all four of them looked that way. A sensation coursed through the
black dragon, the feeling that something had gone terribly wrong with his perfect plan.
“Can you feel it? Can you feel it?” Malygos babbled. “I am me again! What a glorious thing!”

 “And it'sss about time!” returned Nozdormu, gemstone eyes uncommonly bright and gleaming. “Yesss,
ssso very much about time!”

 Ysera opened her arresting eyes, this timesoarresting that it was all Deathwing could do to pull his gaze
from them. “It is the end of the nightmare,” she whispered. “Our dream has become truth!”

Alexstrasza nodded. “What was lost has been returned to us. TheDemon Soul. . . theDemon Soulisno
more.”

“Impossible!” the metallic behemoth roared. “Lies! Lies!”

“No,” corrected the crimson figure. “The only lie left to disprove now is that you are invincible.”

“Yesss,” snapped Nozdormu. “I look forward to disssproving that ridiculousss fallacy. . . .”

 And Deathwing found himself under attack by four elemental forces the likes of which he had never
faced. No longer did he fight mere shadows of his rivals, but a quartet, each his equal—and he no match
for all together.

 Malygos brought the very clouds to him, clouds with suffocating holds around the black dragon's jaws
and nostrils. Nozdormu turned time forward for Deathwing alone, sapping his adversary of strength by
forcing Deathwing to suffer weeks, months, then years without rest. His defenses already crippled by
these assaults, Ysera had no trouble invading his mind, turning the armored behemoth's thoughts to his
worst nightmares.

 Only then did Alexstrasza rise before him, the terrible nemesis. She gazed at Deathwing, still in part with
pity, and said, “Life is my Aspect, dark one, and I, like all mothers, know both the pain and wonder that
entails! For the past several years, I have watched my children be raised as instruments of war,
slaughtered if they proved insufficient or too willful! I have lived knowing that so many died that I could
do nothing for!”

“Your words mean nothing to me,” Deathwing roared as he futilely struggled to shrug off the others'
horrific assaults.“Nothing!”

“No, they likely do not . . . which is why I shall let you experience firsthand all that I have suffered. . . .”

 And she did just that. Against any other attack, even the nightmares of Ysera, Deathwing could summon
some defense, but against Alexstrasza's he had no weapon upon which to draw. She attacked with pain,
butherpain. She dealt not with agony as he knew it, but with that of a loving mother who suffered with
each child torn from her, with each child turned into something terrible.

With each child who perished.

“You will go through all I have gone through, dark one. Let us see if you fare any better than I did.”

 But Deathwing had no experience in such suffering. It tore at him where the pain of vicious talons or
ripping teeth could not, for it tore at him in his very being.

The most terrible of dragons screamed as none had ever heard a dragon scream before.
 That, perhaps, was all that saved him. So startled were the others by it that they faltered in their own
spells. Able at last to rip free, Deathwing turned and fled, flying fast and furious. His entire body shook
and he continued to scream even as he swiftly dwindled from sight.

“We mussst not let him ssslip away!” Nozdormu suddenly realized.

“Follow him, follow him, indeed!” agreed Malygos.

“I agree,” She of the Dreaming quietly added. Ysera looked at Alexstrasza, who hovered, amazed at
what she had done. “Sister?”

“Yes,” the red dragon replied, nodding. “By all means, go on! I shall join you shortly. . . .”

“I understand . . .”

The other three Aspects veered off, gathering speed as they began their pursuit of the renegade.

 Alexstrasza watched them fly off, almost ready to join in the hunt. She did not know if, even with their
power returned to them, they could forever end the terror of Deathwing, but he certainly had to be
contained. However, there were other matters that she had to deal with first.

The Dragonqueen surveyed both the skies and earth, searching. At last she spotted the one she sought.

“Korialstrasz,” she whispered. “You werenotone of Ysera's dreams after all. . . .”


If they had fought alone, the dwarves might have suffered a different fate. Certainly they could have held
their own for a time, but the orcs had not only outnumbered them, they had also been in better condition.
Years of skulking underground had hardened Rom's band in some ways, but it had drained them in
others.

A fortunate thing, then, that their ranks had been added to by a war wizard, a skilled elven ranger, and
one of their mad cousins atop a gryphon with razor-sharp talons and beak. With theDemon Soul
destroyed, the trio had turned their talents to aiding the trusty hill dwarves and turning the tide.

 Of course, the red dragon constantly swooping down on the orcs every time they tried to organize ranks
certainly helped.

 What remained of Grim Batol's orc forces finally surrendered, so very beaten that they knelt before the
victors, certain death would soon follow. Rom, his arm in a sling, might have granted them that, for many
of his folk and those of his allies had perished, including Gimmel. However, the dwarven leader followed
the commands of another—and who argued with a dragon?

 “They will be marched to the west, where Alliance vessels will take them back to the enclaves already
set up. There has been enough blood this day, and northern Khaz Modan will certainly cause the
shedding of more. . . .” Korialstrasz looked tired, so very tired. “I have seen enough blood today, thank
you. . . .”

With Rom's promise to do as the leviathan bid, Korialstrasz turned his attention to Rhonin.
“I won't tell anyone the truth about you,Krasus,”the young wizard immediately said. “I think I understand
why you did what you did.”

 “But I will never forgive myself for my lapses. I only pray that my queen understands. . . .” The reptilian
giant managed an almost human shrug. “As for my place in the Kirin Tor, that will be up for some debate.
Not only do I not know if I wish to stay, but the truth about what happened is surely to come out—at
least in part. They will realize that I sent you on other than a simple reconnaissance mission.”

“What happens now?”

 “Many things . . . too many things. The Horde still maintains its hold on Dun Algaz, but that will come to
an end soon. After that, this world must rebuild . . . providing it gains the chance.” He paused. “In
addition, there are some political matters which, after this day's events, will most certainly shift.”
Korialstrasz eyed the tiny creatures before him somewhat uneasily. “And I will say to you now that my
kind is as much to blame for those shifts as anyone else.”

 Rhonin would have pressed, but he immediately saw that Korialstrasz would not be answering those
questions. Having learned of both Deathwing's and the red dragon's ability to masquerade as humans, the
wizard did not doubt that the ancient race had interfered much over the history of not only humanity, but
the elves and others as well.

 “That was quick thinking, what you did, Rhonin,” the behemoth remarked. “You were always a good
student. . . .”

The conversation came to an abrupt end as a vast shadow swept over the band. For a brief moment, the
weary mage feared that Deathwing had somehow escaped his pursuers and had returned to take his
vengeance on those who had caused his defeat.

However, the dragon hovering above turned out not to be black, but rather as crimson as Korialstrasz.

“The dark one flees! His evil is, if not stopped, certainly curtailed some!”

Korialstrasz gazed up, longing in his voice. “My queen . . .”

“I had thought you dead,” murmured Alexstrasza to her consort. “I mourned you for a long time. . . .”

 The male looked guilty. “The subterfuge was necessary, my queen, if only to give me the opportunity to
try to win your freedom. I apologize not only for the pain I caused you, but also the inconsideration I
displayed by manipulating these mortals. I know how you feel toward their kind. . . .”

She nodded. “If they will forgive you, then so will I.” Her tail slipped down, intertwining with his own for
a moment. “The others still pursue the dark one, but before I would join them in the hunt, we must gather
what remains of our flight and rebuild our home anew. This I think a priority.”

“I am your servant,” he replied, bowing his massive head. “Now and forever, my love.”

 Looking at the wizard and his friends, the Dragonqueen added, “For your sacrifices, the least we can do
is offer you a ride home—providing you can wait a little while.”

Even though, with much effort, Falstad's gryphon could have eventually carried them home, Rhonin
gratefully accepted. He found he liked both dragons, despite Korialstrasz's past trickery. Put in the same
position, the wizard probably would have acted just as the consort had.

 “The hill dwarves will give you food and a place to rest. We will return for you tomorrow after the eggs
have all been recovered and safely secreted.” A bitter smile crossed her draconic features. “Praise be
that our eggs are so very durable, or else even in defeat Deathwing would have struck mine a bitter blow.
. . .”

“Do not think about it,” urged the male. “Come! The sooner we are done, the better!”

 “Yes . . .” Alexstrasza dipped her head toward the trio. “Human Rhonin, elf, and dwarf ! I thank all
three of you for your parts in this, and know that as long as I am queen, my kind will never be an enemy
to yours. . . .”

 And with that, both dragons rose high into the air, racing in the direction that Deathwing had gone with
the first of the eggs. Those still remaining with the caravan would be under the protection of the jubilant
hill dwarves, who could at last claim the mountain fortress and all of Grim Batol as theirs again.

 “A glorious sight, them!” rumbled Falstad once the dragons had vanished. He turned to his companions.
“My elven lady, you shall always be a part of my dreams!” He took the confused ranger's hand, shook it,
then said to Rhonin, “Wizard, I've not dealt much with your kind, but I'll say here that at least one of 'em
has the heart of a warrior! Be quite a tale I'll be telling,the Taking of Grim Batol!Don't be surprised if you
someday find dwarves regaling your story in some tavern, eh?”

 “Are you leaving us?” Rhonin asked in complete bewilderment. They had only just won the battle. He
still struggled to catch his breath from the entire matter.

“You should not go until at least the morning,” Vereesa insisted.

 The wild dwarf shrugged as if indicating that, had it been his own choice, he would have gladly stayed.
“Sorry I am, but this news must reach the Aerie as soon as possible! As fast as the dragons'll be, I'll get
back there before they reach Lordaeron! 'Tis my duty—and I'd like a few particular folk there to know
I've not been lost after all. . . .”

 Rhonin gratefully took Falstad's powerful hand, thankful that he did not have to use his own injured one
to shake. Even tired, the gryphon-rider had a crushing grip. “Thank you for everything!”

“No, human, thankyou!I'd like to see another rider with a greater song of glory to sing than I've got! Will
make the heads of the ladies turn my way, believe you me!”

 In a startling display for one so reserved, Vereesa leaned down and kissed the dwarf lightly on the
cheek. Underneath his great beard, Falstad blushed furiously. Rhonin felt a twinge of jealousy.

“Take care of yourself,” she warned the rider.

 “That I will!” He mounted the back of the gryphon with one practiced leap. With a wave to the duo,
Falstad tapped lightly on the animal's sides with his heels. “Mayhaps we'll all meet again once this war's
truly over!”

The gryphon lifted off into the sky, circling once so that Falstad could bid them farewell again. Then the
dwarf 's mount steered west, and the short warrior vanished into the distance.
Rhonin waved at the dwindling figure, recalling with some guilt his first impressions of the dwarf. Falstad
had proven himself though, in many ways more than the wizard felt thathehad.

A gentle hand took hold of his crippled one, lifting it slowly up.

“This is long past the need to be dealt with,” Vereesa reproved him. “I took an oath to see you safe.
This would not look good for me. . . .”

“Didn't your oath end when we reached the shores of Khaz Modan?” he returned, adding a slight smile.

“Perhaps, but it seems that you need to be guarded from yourself every hour of the day! What might you
do to yourself next?” However, the elf, too, let a slight smile momentarily escape her.

Rhonin let her fuss over his broken finger, wondering if perhaps there might be a way for him to continue
his association with Vereesa after the dragon had brought them both back to Lordaeron. Surely it would
be best for those in command if the pair gave their reports together, the better to verify events. He would
have to propose that to Vereesa and see how she felt about it.

 Curious, he suddenly thought, how one could go from almost seeking death, as he had done in the
beginning, to wanting to live to the fullest—and that after nearly having been incinerated, crushed, run
through, beheaded, and devoured. He would always have regrets for what had happened on his previous
mission, but no longer was he haunted by that time.

 “There,” Vereesa announced. “Keep it like that until I can find some better material. It should heal well,
then.”

 She had taken a strip of cloth from her cloak and had fashioned a splint of sorts using a piece of wood
from a broken war-ax. Rhonin inspected her work, found it exceptional.

 He had never bothered to mention that, once recuperated, he would have been able to completely heal
the hand himself. She had been very willing to help him.

“Thank you.”

He hoped that the dragons would take their time with their task. With nothing to fear from the orcs,
Rhonin found himself in no hurry whatsoever to go home.


When news at last spread to the Alliance of Grim Batol's downfall and the loss of the dragons to the
Horde's dying cause, celebrations arose among the people. Surely now the war would at last come to an
end. Surely now peace was at hand.

Each of the major kingdoms insisted on hearing the words of the wizard and elf for themselves,
questioning the pair at great length. Word came down from the Aeries of verification from one of the
gryphon-riders, the celebrated hero Falstad.

 While Rhonin and Vereesa continued their tour of the various kingdoms—and grew closer in the
process—he who had worn the guise of the wizard Krasus had made a report of his own in the Chamber
of the Air. Initially, he had been greeted with hostility by his fellow councilors, especially those who knew
he had outright lied to all. However, no one could argue with the results, and wizards were, if nothing
else, pragmatic when it came to results.
 Drenden had shaken his shadowed head at the faceless mage. “You could've brought down everything
we'd worked for!” he boomed, his words echoed by the storm momentarily raging through the chamber.
“Everything!”

“I understand that now. If you like, I will resign from the council, even accept penance or ouster, if that is
what you wish.”

 “There were those who mentioned more than ouster,” commented Modera. “Much more than ouster . .
.”

 “But we've all discussed that and decided that young Rhonin's success has brought Dalaran nothing but
good will, even from those of our allies who briefly protested their lack of knowledge of his improbable
mission. The elves especially are pleased, as one of their own was also involved.” Drenden shrugged.
“There seems no reason to continue on with this subject. Consider yourself officially censured, Krasus,
butcongratulatedby me personally.”

“Drenden!” snapped Modera.

“We're alone here, I can say what I will.” He steepled his fingers. “Now, then, if no one else has any
other comment, I'd like to bring up the subject of one Lord Prestor, supposed monarch-elect of
Alterac—whoseemsto have vanished off the face of the world!”

 “The chateau is empty, his servants fled . . .” added Modera, still annoyed at her counterpart's earlier
comments concerning Krasus.

One of the other mages, the heavyset one, finally spoke up. “The spells surrounding the place've
dissipated, too. And there're signs that there were goblins working for this rogue mage!”

The entire council looked to Korialstrasz.

 He spread his hands as if as bewildered as the rest. “Lord Prestor” had clearly had the upper hand in the
situation, everything to gain; why, the rest clearly wanted to know, had he abandoned it all now? “It is as
much a puzzle to me as it is you. Perhaps he realized that, eventually, our combined might would bring
him down. That would be my likely guess. Certainly nothing else would explain why he would give up so
much.”

 This sat well with the other wizards. Like most creatures, Korialstrasz knew, they had their egos to
assuage.

 “His influence already wanes,” he went on. “For surely you have all heard how Genn Greymane has
reinstated his protest against Prestor's taking ascension, and even Lord Admiral Proudmoore has joined
him on this. King Terenas even announced that a second check into the socalled noble's background left
many questions unanswered. The rumors of Prestor's imminent betrothal to the young princess have
dwindled away. . . .”

“You were looking into his background,” commented Modera.

“It may be that some of that information slipped to His Majesty, yes.”

Drenden nodded, quite pleased. “Rhonin's quest has brought us into the good graces of Terenas and the
others, and we'll make the best use of that turn. By the end of a fortnight, ‘Lord Prestor’ will be
anathema to the entire Alliance!”

 Korialstrasz raised a warning hand. “Best to take a more subtle touch. We have the time. Before long,
they will forget he even existed.”

 “Perhaps you're right.” The bearded mage looked at the others, who nodded in agreement. “Unanimous,
then. How wonderful.” He raised his hand, ready to dismiss the council. “Well, if there's nothing more—”

“Actually, there is,” interrupted the dragon mage. A cloud from the fading storm drifted through him.

“What is it?”

“Although you have granted me pardon for my questionable actions, I must tell you now that I must take
my leave from council activities for a time.”

 They looked stunned. None could recall him ever having missed a gathering, much less stepping back
from the council altogether.

“How long?” Modera asked.

“I cannot say. She and I have been apart so long, it will take quite some time to regain what we once
had.”

Korialstrasz could almost see Drenden blink, despite the shadow spell.“Youhave a . . . awife,is she?”

 “Yes. Forgive me if I never recalled to tell you. As I said, we were apart for quite some time. . . .” He
smiled even though they could not see it. “. . . but now she is returned to me.”

The others shared glances. Finally, Drenden replied, “Then . . . by all means . . . we shall not stand in
your way. You certainly have the right to do this. . . .”

 He bowed. In truth, the dragon hoped to return, for this had been as much a part of his centuries-old life
as almost anything else. Yet, compared to being with his Alexstrasza, even it paled in comparison. “My
thanks. I hope, of course, to keep abreast of all news of import, I promise you. . . .”

He raised his hand in farewell as the spell he cast transported him away from the Chamber of the Air.
Korialstrasz's parting words were truer than even the other wizards might have realized. As one of the
Kirin Tor—even one absent from the council—he most definitely planned to watch the political
maneuverings. Despite “Lord Prestor's” disappearance, potentially devastating squabbles remained
between the various kingdoms, Alterac again one of the foremost topics. His duties for Dalaran
demandedKorialstrasz maintain watch.

 And for his queen, for his ancient kind, he and others like him would also watch . . . watch and influence,
if necessary. Alexstrasza believed in these young races, more so after what Rhonin and the others had
done, and because of that Korialstrasz intended to do what he had to in order to steel her belief. He
owed that to both her and those who had aided him in his quest.

No one had sighted Deathwing since the black beast's desperate escape. With the others constantly on
watch for him now, it seemed unlikely that he would cause much terror for some time to come, if ever.
Yet, because of him, the others had taken a renewed interest in life and the future.
 The day of the dragon had passed, true, but that did not mean at all that they would not continue to leave
their mark in the world . . . even if no one else ever suspected it.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR



 RICHARDA. KNAAK is the author of more than twenty fantasy novels and over a dozen short pieces,
including theNew York TimesbestsellerTHE LEGEND OF HUMAfor the Dragonlance series. Aside
from his extensive work in Dragonlance, he is best known for his popular Dragonrealm series, which is
now available again in trade paperback. His other works include several contemporary fantasies,
includingFROSTWINGandKING OF THE GREY,also available again. BesidesDAY OF THE
DRAGONfor the Warcraft series, he is writing two novels based on Diablo, first of which will be the
upcomingLEGACY OF BLOOD.He is also working on a major trilogy for Dragonlance.

Those interested in learning more about his projects should check out his Web site at
http://www.sff.net/people/knaak.




To free the
Dragonqueen . . .


An impossible, improbable quest to some, certain death to most. Dragonmaw clan would forever retain
its hold on Khaz Modan unless Alexstrasza was freed, and so long as the orcs there continued the work
of the Horde, they remained a possible rallying point for those in the guarded enclaves.

 A brief rumble of thunder disturbed Rhonin's contemplations. He looked up but saw only a few cottony
clouds.

 A second, more menacing rumble set every muscle taut as a massive shadow covered their
surroundings.

 An ear-shattering roar shook the vicinity and a force akin to a tornado ripped at the landscape. Rhonin
twisted around so as to see the heavens—and saw instead a hellish sight.

A dragon the color of raging fire filled the sky above and in its forepaws it held what remained of his
horse and his costly and carefully chosen supplies. The crimson leviathan consumed in one gulp the rest
of the carcass, eyes already fixed on the tiny, pathetic figures below.

And seated atop the shoulders of the beast, a grotesque, greenish figure with tusks and a battle-ax
barked orders in some harsh tongue and pointed directly at Rhonin.

Maw gaping and talons bared, the dragon dove toward him.
DAY OF THE
DRAGON



RICHARDA. KNAAK




ONE

TWO

THREE

FOUR

FIVE

SIX

SEVEN

EIGHT

NINE

TEN

ELEVEN

TWELVE

THIRTEEN

FOURTEEN

FIFTEEN

SIXTEEN
SEVENTEEN

EIGHTEEN

NINETEEN

TWENTY

TWENTY-ONE

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
